Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8005-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Divisicn
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distibufion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiau duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank aouthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1989)
Currency Unit   -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         = Rp 1,770
'p 100          =  US$0.05
Rp 1 million    8 US$565
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (M)         =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      3  2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB              - Asian Development Bank
AADT             - Average Annual Daily Traffic
BAPPEDA I and II - Provincial and District Development Planning Board
BAPPI!AS         - National Planning Agency
DBM              - Dinas Bina Marga; Provincial Roads Department
DGH              - Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLC             - Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRD             - Directorate General of Regional Development (MHRA)
DPUK             - Local Government Department of Public Works
DPUP             - Provincial Government Department of Public Works
GOI              - Government of Indonesia
IGGI             -  Intergovernmental Group on Indonesia
INPRES           - Central Government Grant to Local Governments
IRE              -  Institute of Road Engineering in Bandung
ITB              - Institute of Technology, Bandung
P.T. Jasa Marga  -  Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
MHA              - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC              - Ministry of Communication
MOF              - Ministry of Finance
MPW              - Ministry of Public Works
OECF             - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PPB              - DGH's Planning, Programming and Budgeting System
PS&AP            - Policy Statement and Action Plan
RBO              - Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
Repelita         -  Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
RMS              - DGH's Road Management System
SOE              -  Statement of Expenditures
VOC              - Vehicle Operating Cost
Vpd              - Vehicles per day
VWD              - Vehicle Weights and Dimensions



AL  l
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$350.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the
l                     ~~~~~~standard variable interest rate.
Project            The main objective of the project is to assist the
Objectives       Government in improving the overall efficiency of the road
l         ~~~and          subsector by supporting its Policy Statement and Action Plan
Description:     (PS&AP) for road transport and road use and comprehensive
1989/90 to 1991/92 expenditure plan for inter-urban national and
t                    ~~~~~~provincial roads which together aim at:  (i) consolidating
recent improvements in the formulation and implementation of
highway sector expenditures; (ii) instituting improved policies
on road use; (iii) strengthening the institutions involved in
the subsector; and (iv) improving the quality of the road net-
work by focussing on maintenance and rehabilitation/betterment
|                     ~~~~~~works.  The project includes:  (i) technical assistance, studies
and training to assist in the implementation of the PS&AP and
the expenditure plan; and (ii) specific subprojects of the
expenditure plan selected annually on the basis of agreed pro-
cedures and economic and technical criteria. Major components
for which loan proceeds will be used are road and bridge
improvement and maintenance programs but other components would
include road safety, technical assistance and training.
Benefits           The main benefits expected from the project are lower
;        ~~and Risks:      road transport costs and time savings for all road users.  Bene-
fits accruing to truck and bus companies will be passed on to
producers and consumers through lower prices of goods and ser-
vices. The main risks are delays in: (i) improving transport
policies and strengthening of institutions because of political
sensitivities and bureaucratic inertia; and (ii) in maintaining
and improving the infrastructure because of lack of funds or
insufficient implementation capacity. The risk of delays in
policy improvement have been limited through careful prepara-
tion and formulation of the Actit-i Plan resulting in well
defined and staged activities. The risk of delays in
implementing civil works are also limited because the three-
year expenditure plan is based on firm indications of foreign
funding and moderate growth of local funding and GOI's imple-
mentation capacity has increased rapidly in recent years and
will receive continued support under the project.
|This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peronac 
|of their official dutie,s. Its contents iray not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank atoiain 



- ii -
Estimated Costt la                                   Local      Foreign    Total
------(USS million)-------
DGH's 1989/90-1991/92 Expenditure Plan
Maintenai.ce                                      296.3       296.4    592.7
Rehabilitation/betterment                         489.5       622.9  1,112.4
Bridge replacement                                 76.1       177.6    253.7
New construction/upgrading                         36.2        54.2     90.4
Administration                                    255.8       109.7    365.5
Total Cost                                    1,153.9    1,260.8  2,414.7
Financing Plan:
Local Funds:
Central and Provincial Governments la             896.6         -      896.6
Ongoing and committed foreign loans Lb               78.1       684.5    762.6
New Loans: ADB Tenth Loan /c                         17.3        42.7     60.0
OECF Loans {c                            84.9      112.3    197.2
EXIM Bank of Japan Loans /c              51.4        -        51.4
IBRD Highway Sector Loan                25.6       324.4    350.0
To be determined                          -         96.9      96.9
Total Financing Required        1,153.9    1,260.8  2,414.7
Estimated Disbursements:      FY                    1990      19.11  1992   1993
----- (US$Sillion)-------
Annual                                         60.0      90.0  100.0  100.0
Cumulative                                     60.0    150.0  250.0  350.0
Economic
Rate of Return:      Over 15Z
Mapss     Nos. IBRD 21746, 21747, 21748, 21749 and 21750
La   Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$208.5 million.
lb   Including US$56.0 million for IBRD loans made between 1981 and 1986.
/c   Either already signed or in final proce.ssing stage.



-iL -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
table of Contents
Page No.
Loan snd Project Summary  .....................                  .     i
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ............. ..1. 
A.  Eco.,omic and Sector Setting . . . . .                        1 . . . . . . . . .
B. Secvor Organization.                                           2
C.  Goverrment Objectiveb and Policies  . . . . . . . . . . .     3
D. Sector Performance                    .5
E.  Experience Under Previous Bank-Financed Projects  . . .       5
F.  Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy .   . . . . . .         6
II.  THE ROAD SUBSECTOR   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
A.  The Network ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
B.  Road Transport  ...........  ...   .    .....                 7
C.  Highway Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
D.  Highway Planning and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
E.  Highway Design and Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
F. Highway Maintenance .16
G. Staff and Training .17
H. Environmental Aspects .17
I.  Overall Efficiency in the Road Subsector  . . . . . . . .    18
III. ROAD SUBSECTOR POLICIES AND THE ROAD EXPENDITURE PROGRAM   . .    19
A.  Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  Principal Policies .19
C.  Three-Year Expenditure Plan for National and
Provincial Roads   ..22
D.  Annual Work Programs and Budgets    ..25
E.  Toll  Roads    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
IV. BANK PARTICIPATION ................. . .. .    27
A.  Project Background and Formula.ion .27
B.  Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
C.  Description of Bank Financed Subprojects .27
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
E.  Implementation of Bank-Financed Subprojects .35
F.  Procurement of Bank Financed Suborojects  . . . . . . . .    36
G. Disbursements .37
H. Retroactive Financing .38
I. Monitoring and Auditing .38
J. Project Environmental Impact .39
This report was prepared by Mr. Sigfus 0. Sigfusson (Principal Highway
Engineer), Mr. Jean-Charles Crochet (Senior Transport Economist),
Mr. Joris Van der Ven (Senior Transport Economist), and Mr. David Hawes
(Transport Economist, Consultant) following appraisal in June 1989.



- iv -
Page No.
V.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS            *..........  .. .......        40
A.  General ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    40
B.  Evaluation of Methodologies Used for Preparing the
Expenditure Plan and the Budget ... .   .... .  .  .   .    40
C.  Risks   .  .   .  .   .   .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  43
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . .    45
ANNEXES
1.  Policy Statement and Action Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    47
2. Agreed Methodology for Three-Year Expenditure Plan and Economic
Criteria for Annual Work Program and Budget . . . . . . .    63
3. Documents Available in the Project File .65
TABLES
1.1 Domestic Freight Movements ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    67
1.2 Domestic Passenger Traffic ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    68
2.1 Road Network Length by Road Class and Island Group . . . . .    69
2.2 Road Network Density .70
2.3  Road Pavements by Road Class and Island Group  . . . . . . .    71
2.4 Condition of the National and Provincial Road Network 1988 .    72
2.5  Registered Motor Vehicles, 1974-86 ... .  .  .  .  .    . . .  73
2.6 Distribution of Annual Vehicle Kilometers by Road Class
and Island Group .74
2.7 Mean Traffic Levels by Road Class and Island Group .75
2.8 Expenditures in Highway Sector (1984/85 to 1988/89)  . . .      76
2.9 DGH Geometric Standards  . . . .       i . . . . . . . . . .    77
3.1  Three-Year Expenditure Plan for National and Provincial Roads   79
3.2 Main Ongoing and Committed Foreign Loans . . . . . . . . . .    81
3.3 Three-Year Expenditure Plan: Breakdown of Expenditures in
Accordance with Availability of Foreign Funds  . . . . . .    82
4.1 First List of Bank Financed Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . .    83
4.2  Summary of Consultancy Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    84
4.3 List of Equipment  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    85
4.4  Summary of Costs by Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    87
4.5  Summary of Costs by Type of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . .    88
4.6 Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    89
5.1  Summarized Description of Standard Segments  . . . . . . . .    90
5.2 Optimum Initial Treatments and IERR for Each
Standard Segment .91
CHARTS
2.1 Organization of the Directorate General of Highways
2.2 Organization of the Provincial Public Works Agency
2.3 Organization of the Directorate General of
Regional Development
MAPS
IBRD 21746  National and Provincial Roads Network ir Sumatra
IBRD 21747 National and Provincial Roads Network in Java and Bali
IBRD 21748 National and Provincial Roads Network in Kalimantan
and Sulawesi
IBRD 21749 National and Provincial Roads Network in Timor
IBRD 21750  National and Provincial Roads Network in Irian Jaya



1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic and Sector Setting
1.1       Until the early 19708 agriculture ar.d forestry provided the main-
stay of Indonesia's economy and were the main source of foreign exchange.
When oil price increases accelerated in 1974, oil assumed a more prominert
position and the economic situation became closely tied to developments in the
oil market. In the early and mid-1980s, the external environment deteriorated
sharply as a result of lower oil prices, followed by the depreciation of the
US dollar. Government responded tn the new challenges with measures to
restrain demand, mobilize resources and bring about the structural changes
needed to develop the non-oil economy. These policies have been successful
and non-oil exports have increased rapidly and in 1988 exceeded oil and gas
earnings for the first time since 1974. The task of the transport sector is
to meet the rapid growth in traffic generated by these macroeconomic develop-
ments.
1.2       All transport modes--road, rail, shipping, civil aviation, inland
waterways, and pipelines--play a role in Indonesia's transport system but road
is the dominant mode with an estimated 53Z of medium- and long-distance
freight transport and 88Z of passenger traffic (Tables 1.1 and 1.2). The
modes tend to complement one another with each aerving specific market needs.
Only in Java and in a few corridors in other regions is there intermodal com-
petition. Java also has the most highly developed and best integrated overall
transport system where alleviation of congestion and elimination of capacity
constraints are becoming key concerrs. In other regions such as Kalimantan
and Irian Jaya, by contrast, accessibility and services are still poor in
certain areas.
1.3       The transport system and transport flows have been shaped by the
different resource endowments of the islands Lnd the distribution of popu-
lation. Exports of primary prodvets have traditionally been moved directly
from producing areas to export markets, while capital and consumer goods are
imported mainly via the principal ports which coincide with the main centers
of activity. In interisland trade, the predominant transport flows are
between Java and the Outer Islands with Jakarta and Surabaya as the focal
points of these flows. As manufacturing is concentrated on Java and incomes
are still relatively modest, there is as yet no large-scale exchange of
manufactured goods between regions. Some ten transport corridors, however,
mainly on Java and between Java and selected points on the other Islands,
feature intense transport activity. Furthermore, exports of manufactured
goods are growing rapidly in some selected corridors. For the future, owing
to the development strategy adopted by the Government based on industr4al
diversification and export-led growth, the challenge will be to meet the rapid
growth in newly emerging traffics and to cater for the service requirements of
overseas clients. These tasks will be all the more challenging as they will
need to be accomplished in an environment of budgetary restraint. Thus, if
transport is to continue to contribute to economic growth and not pose a
constraint, its overall efficiency will have to increase rapidly.



B.  Sector Organization
4       Government Structure.  I' view of the size of the country, the
structure of government has necessarily a functional (line Ministries) and a
regional dimension. Being a unitary state, however, all levels of government
are branches of the Central Government. The main line ministries and agencies
which have responsibilities in transport include the National Development
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of Communications (MOC), the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW) through its Directorate General of Highways (DGH) (for
national and provincial roads), and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA),
through its Directorate Genera'l of Regional Development (DGRD) (for district
and municipal roads and for the annual vehicle registration tax and the owner-
ship transfer tax). These ministries and agencies are active at both the
central and regional government level and several mechanisms are used for
devolving responsibilities from the center to the regional level. In addi-
tion, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has a role in tariff setting for the state
transport enterprises and in the taxation and pricing of fuels used in trans-
port and the Ministry of Industry (MOI) has a role in the formulation of pol-
icies for motor vehicle manufacture and assembly.
1.5       The MOC is responsible for government functions in the air and sea
transport subsectors and, in the land transport subsector, for rail and inland
waterway and ferry transport. It also has overall responsibility for regulat-
ing road traffic and the road transport industry and is involved in related
implementation and enforcement. MOC's responsibilities include supervision of
20 state-owned enterprises engaged in the provision of transport and terminal
services. It executes its duties through its three directorates general con-
cerned with land communications (DGLC), sea communications (DGSC) and air
communications (DGAC). The highway network is admini-tered by the public
works agencies of the various tiers of government. At the central level, the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has primary responsibility for national
roads and for setting expenditure policies and operational guidelines. The
provincial and district/municipality public works departments have responsi-
bility for provincial and district/municipal roads respectively. A public
toll roads corporation, PT Jasa Marga, was established in 1978 to construct
and operate toll roads (para. 2.3).
1.6       Planning.  For highways, the planning and programming responsibili-
ties are concentrated within two DGH directorates, the Directorate of Planning
and the Directorate of Urban Roads. The planning of district road investments
is essentially the responsibility of the districts themselves within the
framework of overall guidelines and a funding envelope set by the Central
Government. MOC's Secretariat General, through its Bureau of Planning plays a
crucial role in the planning for civil aviation, maritime, rail, inland water-
ways, and ferry transport along with the programs for road traffic and trans-
port by guiding and coordinating the preparation of inputs by the planning
divisions of each of the modal Directorates General of MOC.             1
1.7       The transport sector planning process is largely governed by the
national planning, programming and budgeting procedures. Medium-term planning
focuses on the national five-year development plans (Repelita) while short-
term investment programming is tied into the annual development budgeting
cycle. BAPPENAS manages the process by guiding aDd coordinating the prepara-
tion of inputs by individual sectoral ministries, regional governments and



other agencies. The five-year plans were first introduced in 1969 and tha
fifth plan will cover the 1989/90 to 1993/94 period. These plans define broad
development objectives and over time have become more explicit in terms of
physical targets for neu investments. The plans, however, are essentially
static. While substantial resources are devoted to their Initial preparation
there is no formal provision for mid-term or annual reviews/updating. Conse-
quently, the annual components of the plan tend to lose relevance during the
later years as economic and other circumstances deviate from those underlying
plan preparation. Planning as part of the annual budget cycle has tradition-
ally focused narrowly on individual projects and has been weak in terms of
priority ranking and overall coordination of investments. This, however, is
being remedied in the highway subsector (para. 2.24).
1.8       In recent years the Government has devoted considerable resources to
improving transport planning and in the highway subsector these efforts are
beginning to bear fruit. In general, however, planning is hampered by the
poor quality of data and information. Data sources are generally fragmented
and incomplete and their reliability is poor.
C. Government Objectives and Policies
1.9       Role of Transport.  The Government assigns many functions to trans-
port. Emphasis is h-en, however, to the kqy roles of serving the needs of
the productive sectors and to opening up relrte areas and providing access to
otherwise isolated communities. Furthermore, successive five-year development
plans have stressed that the transport system as a whole should foster per-
sonal mobility and the smooth flow of goods and that transport services should
also be affordable, fast, regular, safe and reliable. While these plans have
made increasing references to the need for efficiency in transport, the mean-
ing of the concept and how it is to be achieved has not been clearly spelled
out.
1.10      To achieve its sectoral goals, the Government has traditionally
exercised extensive control and relied heavily on public involvement in the
sector.  Not only is the provision and upkeep of the transport infrastructure
in the hands of the public sector, but several major state enterprises such as
the State Railways, Garuda Indonesian Airlines, Pelni (the largest interisland
shipping company), and PPD and Damri, the two largest bus companies, are
engaged in providing transport services. In recent years, however, the
Government has begun to relax its controls and to dezegulate.
1.11      Infrastructure Developmant.  At independence, the government
inherited a comparatively limited but ouce reasonably efficient transport
system which had been permitted to run down. Despite initiatives in some
areas, the next two decades were generally characterized by continuing neglect
of infrastructure and equipment. Repelita I (1969j70-1973/74) made the reha-
bilitation of the transport systenm one of its highest priorities. During the
following two national plans, rehabilitation continued to receive attention
but the main focus changed to the expansion of capacity and the extension and
improvement of services. Economic growth was rapid during the period covered
by these two plans and greatly increased government revenues from oil and
natural gas were applied to massive public investment programs. Increasing
weight was also given to opening up remote areas and to the development of
pioneer transport to serve isolated communities. In the process, public



sector employment expanded considerably and large subsidies were provided to
cover operating deficits incurred by state enterprises. The fourth plan
(1984185-196 !89) gave a somewhat lower priority to Lransport as it was drawn
up at a time when weakening world prices and uncertain world markets for
Indonesia's traditional export products were placing growing pressures on
foreign exchange earnings and on government revenues, while at the same time,
rapid growth in the work force required strong expansion of job opportunities.
The actual share of transport in total development spending during the fourth
plat., however, turned out to be higher mainly on account of rapidly increasing
expenditures on roads (para. 1.26). The emphasis on transport, and on roads
in particular, will continue during the fifth plan as part of the Government's
strategy of supporting growth in the private sector by providing adequate
infrastructure. In parallel, outlays for maintenance are being increased in
order to maintain and improve the quality and productivity of the sizeable
investments in transport infrastructure made in the past.
1.12      Regulatory Policies.  In addition to giving high priority to ade-
quate transport capacity, until recently the Government's policies in the
sector relied heavily on extensive regulation and on central control of
investments and operations of both public and private enterprises. This
approach was particularly pronounced in the maritime subsector. The restric-
tions and regulations have had a detrimental effect on the optimal use of
resources available to the sector and have stifled competition and innova-
tion. Regulation and controls were not guided by a clear set of principles
and tended to be a legacy of ad hoc measures taken in the past, the result of
overzealous bureaucratic endeavors or influenced by special interests. While
the overall regime which evolved had many features of the market system, the
numerable restrictions imposed on producers and consumers of transport ser-
vices seriously undermined the functioning of the market mechanism and had the
effect of raising costs. In 1985, when the government realized that its
transport policies affecting international trade were severely impeding rather
thaLL facilitating the development of non-oil 'xports, sweeping deregulation
measures were taken involving the contractt   3ut of customs services to a
private organization and the opening up of - a major ports to international
traffic. This was followed by further subst,.ntial deregulation of the
shipping industry in November 1988. The segmentation of the shipping industry
in separate categories was abandoned, restrictions to entry and route licenc-
ing were eliminated while procedures were simplified. Government is now
preparing for the modernization of the legal and regulatory framework for road
transport (para. 3.2)
1.13      Pricing.  Up until recently, the Government was heavily involved in
pricing of transport whether services are provided by the public or the pri-
vate sector. While most prices of transport services were either set by the
Government or needed Government approval, only a limited role was assigned to
pricing as a tool towards efficiency of resource allocation in transport. In
the case of state-owned facilities (roads, ports), pricing decisions have
primarily been influenced by considerations unrelated to transport sector
efficiency, such as resource mobilization, fighting inflation, promotion of
trade, trade protection and perceived ability to pay. In general, equity
considerations have also played an important role. Since the mid 1980s, how-
ever, the Government's firm grip on prices of services provided by the private
sector has been relaxed and prices for freight services by road and maritime
transport are now set by the market. The railway company is not yet totally



- 5 -
free to negotiate prices with its major (state enterprise) clients. With
respect to cost recovery of basic infrastructure in the roads (para. 2.13) and
ports subsectors, only limited progress has been achieved.
D. Sector Performance
1.14      Owing to the high priority given by government to infrastructure
development, the sector has been able to meet the rapidly growing transport
needs of the economy. Also, the geographical coverage and availability of
services improved considerably. While the physical capacity of the sector is
generally adequate for the medium term (except in a few high density
corridors), its performance could be better. First, in terms of economic
efficiency, there is scope for improvemeat. Inefficiencies are found not only
in the operation of the individual entities providing infrastructure or trans-
port services--transport operators, state enterprises, government agencies--
but also in the way the modal and intermodal systems function as a whole.
Second, from the standpoint of the users of transport services--shippers,
passengers and vehicle operators--the quality of transport services and the
responsiveness of the industry can also be improved.  The shortcomings in
operational efficiency and quality of services result mainly from GOI's sector
policies which in the past have given excessive emphasis to regulation and
control.  Inadequate efficiency in the functioning of the road, maritime and
air transport systems and in intermodal transport result mainly from poor
coordination in policies on infrastructure development and maintenance on the
one hand and policies governing the use of the infrastructure by transport
operators on the other.  In the road subsector, which is the dominant mode,
the potential for significant improvements in the short to medium term is
greatest because the probleme are well understood and .;he Government is
committed to resolve them (paras. 2.41 and 3.1).
1.15      GOI has been aware of many of the shortcomings in sector perfor-
mance and hae taken important measures in several areas in recent years. In
particular, budgetary allocations for road maintenance were increased
(paras. 2.26 and 2.33), the execution standards of road works have improved
(para. 2.28) and the maritime subsector was deregulated. However, measures in
some key policy areas affecting the efficiency of the sector as a whole have
been rather piecemeal and several policies in areas that are interdependent
remain uncoordinated.  GOI has now also come to recognize the need for better
and adequately coordinated policies in the road subsector and, drawing upon
policy studies and preparatory work carried out during the past few years, has
taken steps to reformulate its policies in key areas (Chapter 3).  The pro-
posed project would assist GOI in refining and implementing these policies.
E.  Experience Under Previous Bank-Financed Projects
1.16      The Bank has assisted Indonesia's transport sector through four
maritime projects (two shipping and two port projects), two railway projects,
two fertilizer distribution projects and ten road projects.  The involvement
has been particularly heavy in the road subsector with lending of more than
US$1.2 billion since 1969. The first five road projects dealt primarily with
national roads, while subsequen. projects addressed a broader range of needs,
including institutional strengthening both at the central and local levels.
Two projects dealt with highway maintenance/betterment, two with district
roads and one with toll roads.  Over time the emphasis has shifted from con-



struction or reconstruction to road maintenance, continued institution
building, and sector policies in general.
1.17      Seven projects have been completed and Project Completion Reports
(PCRs) or Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for the
first five projects. A PCR for the First Rural Road project has also been
completed. The first four projects were judged to have been successful.
Problems highlighted in the ex-post evaluation were substantial completion
delays combined with cost overruns. The PCR and PPAR for the Fifth project
fcund that implementation of the road improvement works was moderately
successful but that there were considerable implementation delays. The result
of the project components aimed at strengthening sector institutions and
improving policies, however, were limited. Inadequate preparation and lack of
follow-up during implementation were found to be the major causes for the poor
results. The two highway maintenance and betterment projacts (approved in FY
1984 and FY 1986 respectively) have benefitted from lessons learned from these
projects and have been instrumental in directing the emphasis in expenditure
programs toward maintenance and in introducing execution of maintenance work
by contract.  They have also contrib'ted to strengthening the capacity for
planning, programming and executing comprehensive work programs with increas-
ing delegation of responsibilities to lower level agencies (paras. 2.24 and
2.29).
F. Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy
1.18      By improving its efficiency and responsiveness tc the needs of the
productive sectors, the transport sector will help Government's efforts to
restructure the economy. The Bank has a role in assisting GOI to design and
implement the necessary programs and policies aimed at correcting shortcomings
in sectoral performance. Ongoing projects concentrate on improving the
efficiency in highway construction and maintenance and in port and railway
operations. While this emphasis on operational efficiency will continue,
future projects will have a more pronounced and broader subsectoral approach.
Measures taken in the last few years and the findings and recommendations of
the Bank's recent transport sector work 1/ suggest that a more efficient
development of the sector can be achieved by addressing issues on a subsector
(rather than project) basis, in particular, in terms of composition and level
of expenditures, institutional strengthening, and improvement in subsector
policies. Thus, the Bank's approach in the highway subsector focuses on
measures in these three key areas and the proposed project is designed to
assist the government with needed improvements. Sector work and project
financed studies are underway or being programmed to deepen the Bank's under-
standing of needed measures and reforms in other subsectors. In parallel,
greater attention is being given to questions of intermodal transport.
1/   Indonesia, Transport Sector Overview, July 25, 1988.
Indonesia, Highway Maintenance Review, July 29, 1988.



- 7 -
2. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.1       Indonesia's public roads network has been expanded rapidly in recent
years, from about 136,000 km in 1979 to a total of about 244,00 km 2/ in 1988,
according to preliminary results of an ongoing reclassification effort
(national roads: 16,800km; provincial roads: 32,900 km; district roads:
154,200; municipal roads:  34,800 km; and transmigration roads:  5,300 km; see
Table 2.1). This growth occurred mainly in the district roads (832 since
1979) and resulted more from absorption into the network of existing but
unclassified roads rather than from new construction, which has been limited
in the last several years as the emphasis for all road classes has been on
rehabilitation and improvement. There is, however, scope for further network
growth in the medium and long term, as roed density in Indonesia is still very
low at 130 km/l,000 sq km and 1.5 km/1,000 population (Table 2.2).
2.2       The condition of the netwfork has improved steadily since rehabili-
tation began in 1969. In 1988, about 432 of the total public roads network
was reported paved (832 of national roads, 66Z of provincial roads but only
292 of district roads, see Table 2.3); compared to about 33Z in 1980. Con-
dition surveys show that some 502 of the national and provincial road network
and over 80X of its bridges are in good and fair condition 3/ (Table 2.4) with
the remainder requiring rehabilitation or reconstruction, indicating a
significant backlog of such works. The scarce data available for district
roads suggests that only some 202 may be maintainable.
2.3       In addition to the public roads network, there are also eleven sec-
tions of toll roads of 2-6 lanes, with a total length of 280 km. and six toll
bridges, with a total length of 1,800 m, being operated by the state enter-
prise PT (Perqero) Jasa Marga. Another three sections of 70 km length are
under constr. tion.  More than half of the length of toll xoads serves Jakarta
and some sections are within the city. Other sections are bypasses of impor-
tant cities and a few are interurban. All toll roads are in Java, except for
one in Swmatra. All of these roads are in good to excellent condition.
B. Road Transport
Traffic
2.4       Motor Vehicle Fleet.  There were 7.3 million motor vehicles regis-
tered by the end of 1986 and about 702 (5.1 million) of these were motorcycles
(Table 2.5). Commercial vehicles--buses and trucks--accounted for 592 of
four-wheel motor vehicles with cars making up the remainder. The fleet has
grown rapidly in the last 15 years, averaging around 142 between 1974 and 1983
2/   There are also unknown lengths of village roads and other unclassified
roads in transmigration and other development schemes.   f-
3/   Roads with an IRI (international roughness index) of 8 m/km or less are
considered in fair and better condition.



and slowing to around 8? since 1983.  Numbers of buses, motorcycles and trucks
have grown fastest.
2.5       Traffic Volumes and Growth.  Annual vehicle-km on the intercity
national and provincial network 4/ amount to about 29 billion, about 16 bil-
lion (56X) on national roads (totalling 16,800 km or 342 of the network) and
13 billion (44Z)) on provincial roads (totalling 32,900 km) (Table 2.6).
About 50X of all vehicle-km on this network are in Java and Bali which account
for only 19Z of its length. Mean traffic volumes in average annual daily
traffic (AADT) on this network also vary considerably between regions, from
about 200 vpd in the Outer Islands to 1,300 in Sumatra and nearly 4,000 in
Java/Bali (Table 2.7). The highest traffic flows occur on approach roads to
Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung, some of which are toll roads, where volumes
range from 40,0O0 up to 110,000 vpd. In step with the increase in vehicle
fleet, traffic growth has been rapid but declining overall in the last few
years. The growth rate is lowest in Java and Bali while high rates (10Z ar.d
over) still prevail in the Outer Islands where improvements of the poor road-
result in considerable generated traffic. Road capacity problems are
developing in some major corridors, such as Java's north coast road between
Merak and Surabaya, and significant capacity increases will be required within
a few years.
Traffic Safety
2.6       Road traffic accidents are a serious socioeconomic problem in
Indonesia. The limited data available indicates about 11,000 fatalities while
nearly 50,000 are seriously injured annually. Although fatality rates seem to
have been declining recently, they are still 7-8 times higher than in most
industrialized countries. Studies financed under previous highway projects
have identified the major causes as: inadequacies in laws and regulations
regarding vehicles and traffic and deficiencies in their enforcement by the
police and deficiencies in the standards and zondition of roads. The Govern-
ment is beginning to address the most critical road safety issues (para. 3.8)
and meaRures for improvements in road safety are included in the proposed
project (paras. 4.10-4.13).
The Road Transport Industry
2.7       Structure and Performance.   Own account operations, by both private
and publicly owned companies account for more than half of total road trans-
port. The majority of the for-hire operators have only a small number of
vehicles (1-5 trucks) but in Java and Sumatra there are a number of operators
owning large fleets (40 or more trucks). The for-hire road transport industry
is competitive and road transport is generally preferred to other modes for
the movement of non-bulk freight over short, medium and long distances on
account of cost, speed and reliability considerations. While the industry is
generally responsive to users' requirements, there is scope for improvements
in operational efficiency, in the quality and diversity of services being
offered, and more generally in meeting the requirements of intermodal trans-
port associated with the export trades. Interurban bus services are operated
4/   Available data on other roads does not permit reliable estimates of
vehicle-km on those roads.



by the private sector and are also reasonably efficient. On the trunk routes
services are frequent and fast given variable road conditions.  There is jus-
tified concern, however, over safety standards.  Urban bus services--whether
operated by the public or private sector--suffer many shortcomings. Over-
crowding is the norm during peak hours, cleanliness is a problem and break-
downs are common.  These problems are beginning to be addressed with assis-
tance under the Bank's urban projects.  Tariffs for for-hire trucking are no
longer regulated and vary considerably depending on factors such as commodity
type, availability of return loads and route. For bus transport, tariff con-
trols are generally observed and companies compete on quality of service.
2.8       Economic Regulation.  The relatively satisfactory performance from
the users' point of view of trucking and interurban bus transport is related
to the competitive conditions generally prevailing in the industry as a result
of ease of entry in the market, the relatively flexible enforcement of con-
trols and regulations and more recently the relaxation of tariff controls. A
public transport operator's license, issued by the district government, is
required for the operation of freight or bus services. Bus companies require,
in addition, a license to operate specific services which are to be granted
depending on supply/demand considerations. For trucking operations across
provincial boundaries in Java, a route license is also required which was
originally introduced to protect rail transport. While the economic regula-
tions as relaxed over the years are not causing major distortions, the way
they are interpreted or applied increases operators' costs as the various
licenses can generally be obtained with the payment of supplementary levies.
2.9       System Efficiency.  From the broader economic point of view, condi-
tions in the road transport industry are not as efficient as they could be.
First, Indonesia is not taking full advantage of the important gains which
could be derived from the greater use of large multi-axled trucks operating on
a strongly built and well maintained network. Second, overloading (mainly of
2-axle trucks) beyond the structural capacity of existing roads is widespread
causing serious road damage. These deficiencies are mainly the result of
inappropriate policies on road use, in particular the vehicle/axle weight and
dimension regulations and the level and structure of road user taxation
(paras. 2.13-2.14).
2.10      Vehicle weight and dimension rules are contained in fragmented and
largely outdated laws and regulations, the inadequacy of which is compounded
by ambigtxities and omissions in the formal assignment of responsibilities for
their enforcement. The limits are overly restrictive, although the reverse
tends to be true of those relating to vehicle safety features ard conditions.
The maximum single-axle load limit is 8 tons while a limit of 10 tons would be
more reasonable. The current vehicle height limit of 3.5 meters has not
changed since the 1930s and precludes the legal movement of ISO containers on
a conventional chassis.
2.11      Despite weighbridge statistics to the contrary, overloading is
widespread throughout the country. Containers are moved freely on roads in
the vicinity of the major ports, often using inadequate vehicles, on the basis
of a regime of dispensations to the rules. Clearly, the introduction of
modern rules and regulations which are enforceable is long overdue.



- 10 -
2.12      Regulatory Reform.  Preparatory work for the modernization of the
legislative and regulatory framework covering the road transport industry,
vehicle weights and dimensions and road traffic and safety has been ongoing
for several years and a proposed new law and regulations are now being
reviewed. Government is committed to have the new regulatory framework in
pluce by early 1990 (para. 3.2).
Road User Taxation
2.13      Indonesia applies all three main forms of road user taxes:  (i) pur-
chase related (import duty. VAT and in some instances luxury goods sales tax
on new vehicles, and the ownership transfer tax when vehicles change hands);
(ii) ownership-related (the annual registration fee); and (iii) use related
(import duty and VAT on spare parts, tires and lubricants). In addition, the
pump price of gasoline includes a tax element. In the past, total Government
revenues from road users have not covered total expenditures on roads except
in FY1986/87. Moreover, there is a serious imbalance in the taxation struc-
ture as more than 90Z of tax receipts accrue from small gasoline-engined
vehicles. Heavy goods vehicles which cause most of the road damage and
require the construction of strong pavements, contribute very little to their
road wear and tear costs. This distortion, which is a long-standing feature
of the road user taxation system in Indonesia, mainly arises from the fact
that the principle of cost recovery has so far only played a minimal role in
taxation policies. Decisions on the structure and level of road user taxes
have been made primarily on grounds of resource mobilization, trade and
industrial policy, anti-inflation policies and perceived ability to pay. An
important reason for this is no doubt that decisions on the various road user
taxes are made by different Government departments. Interdepartmental coor-
dination is clearly important in t.e formulation of road user taxation and
this has been lacking in the past.
2.14      In Indonesia, the fuel tax and the annual vehicle registration tax-
-which are the two most commonly used instruments to achieve cost recovery
from heavy road vehicles--are too low and are not appropriately structured.
In particular, the pump price for diesel oil includes a subsidy element when
compared to economic costs, and, the structure of the annual registration tax
for heavy goods vehicles does not reflect the relative road wear and tear of
these vehicles. As a result, rigid two-axle trucks, which represent the
majority of goods vehicles, carry loads which from the point of view of the
road system would more economically be carried by multi-axled vehicles. An
increase in the diesel oil price to cover border prices, transportation and
distribution costs, plus a modest road user tax element would nat be suffi-
cient to compensate for the low annual registration fees which are based on
age and engine size. A restructuring of registration fees which encourages
vehicle configurations and axle loads which ere efficient from the point of
view of the overall road transport system is needed. The basic studies out-
lining the required changes have been undertaken and the Government has begun
to tackle the implementation aspects (para. 3.6).



- 11 -
C. Highway Administration
2.15      The highway network is administered by the public works agencies of
the various tiers of government in accordance with institutional and func-
tional responsibilities for the development and operation of highways. These
responsibilities were broadly defined in the Road 'aw of 1980 and in imple-
mentation regulations of 1985. DGH is the highway agency at the central
level 5/ (Chart 2.1), while agencies at lower levels are, respectively, the
provincial public works departments (Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Propinsi-DPUP) and
the district/municipality public works departments (Dinas Pekerjaan Umum
Kabupaten/Kotamadya-DPUK) (Chart 2.2). Toll roads are developed and operated
by P.T. jasa Marga.
2.16      The DGH is responsible for the design and execution of most major
road works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the betterment, maintenance and
minor constructi_n programs which are carried out by the DPUPs and it operates
a national highway equipment pool. In the last few years, DGH has become
increasingly involved in assisting with the management of the district road
programs.
2.17      Provincial and district road agencies are administratively under the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MBA) (Chart 2.3), which is responsible, through the
Governor, for regulating and monitoring the performance of local authorities.
It also controls appointments of their senior officials, regulates staffing
and salaries, reviews their development plans, budgets and financial perform-
ance. For technical guidance, these road agencies have access to DGH. How-
ever, in practice this setup results in overlapping of responsibilities which
undermines accountability and creates inefficiencies.
2.18      Theoretically, the various provincial public works functions are
handled by separate departments within the DPUPs; for roads it is the Sub-
Dinas Bina Marga (DBM). These departments are being established in provinces
where administrative capabilities are well developed. In other provinces
staff and equipment for the various DPUP functions will continue to be shared
until managerial skills are sufficiently developed for effective provincial
highway management. DPUPs report directly to the governor of the province but
the MPW provides the DPUPs with technical guidance and some administrative
support and they act as the implementing agencies for many of the Ministry's
functions. In order to overcome the shortcomings in highway management at the
provincial level, DGH has established Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs) which
design and supervise highway betterment schemes, but these will be phased out
as provincial highway management improves.6/ Assistance in developing highway
management skills at the provincial level is being provided under the Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Project (Ln. 2717-IND) and further assistance, with
specific focus on establishing permanent technical liaison with the DPUKs, is
provided under the Second Rural Roads Development Project (Ln. 2881-IND).
5/   MOC has overall responsibility for regulating road traffic and the road
transport industry and is involved in related implementation and
enforcement (see para. 1.5).
6/   Some have been reorganized as semipermanent recently for they have been
given an echelon grading.



- 12 -
2.19      Responsibility for the development and maintenance of district
roads, in conjunction with the DPUKs, lies with the Development Bureaus (Biro
Bangda) and the District Planning Boards (BAPPEDA II) of the District Secreta-
riates. The DPUKs report directly to the heads of the district (Bupati).
Despite weak capabilities, the districts have virtual control over their
roads.
2.20      The GO.t is planning decentralization of many of DGH's functions,
including tranafe. of appropriate staff, to the DBMs. These would eventually
include the pzogramming, budgeting, design, execution, supervision and moni-
toring of all programs for the provincial roads network within each province,
while DGH would retain the functions of nationwide planning and monitoring as
well as overall quality control and the issuing of economic criteria, tech-
nical standards and specifications and appropriate manuals. The DBMs would be
strengthened and reorganized into four units fort (i) planning and design;
(ii) betterment; (iii) bridge replacement; and (iv) road maintenance.
Detailed plans are being finalized and the proposed project would provide
assistance to DGH and the DBMs for an efficient transfer of functions
(paras. 4.8, 4.16, 4.17).
2.21      At present, P. T. Jasa Marga's functions are effectively restricted
to the operation and maintenance of toll roads and bridges. Although its
charter provides for it to handle also the development of the toll road net-
work, planning and design still remain in DGH. This may change, however, as
GOI's policy is now to develop toll roads through public/private joint ven-
tures of the build-operate-transfer (BOT) type.
2.22      In addition to the agencies mentioned above, other institutions are
involved in road development in the rural areas, particularly those concerned
with agricultural and transmigration schemes. The road components under these
schemes, however, are not adequately coordinated with the road authorities,
and their planning and implementation has suffered from many weaknesses. The
Second Rural Roads Development Project includes a study to analyze and make
recommendations on: (a) design, construction, and maintenance standards for
road components of development schemes; (b) institutional responsibilities and
processes for programming, budgeting and implementing the road programs of
development schemes (including their maintenance); and (c) the process of
transferring these roads to district and provincial authorities, to ensure,
inter alia, that adequate funds would be budgeted for their maintenance -nd
rehabilitation, and that the capabilities of local authorities would be
upgraded as required for their additional responsibilities. The study's
recommendations would be implemented, as appropriate, through subsequent agri-
culture or highway projects.
Accounting and Auditing
2.23      The DGHs accounting procedures are adequate.  Accounts are audited
both internally and externally. The MPW's Inspectorate General, which reports
directly to the Minister, does the internal auditing of DGH. The State Audi-
tors (BPKP) do the external auditing; these audits are satisfactory. The
Regional and Provincial Inspectorate of MHA audit the district and provincial
accounts internally; the BPKP does the external auditing.



- 13 -
D. Highway Planning and Financing
Planning and Programming
2.24      Preparation of multi-year plans for national and provincial roads is
the responsibility of DGH and, more specifically, its planning directorate,
Bipran. Preparation of annual work programs and budgets is shared between
Bipran and the DBMs with BAPPENAS and the BAPPEDA I playing a key coordinating
role. This takes place within the context of GOI's long and complex budget
process. Considerable efforts have been expended in the recent past to put in
place a comprehensive road management system (RMS) for planning, programming
and budgeting (PPB) as well as designing maintenance and betterment works
(paras. 5.4 to 5.8). For this purpose systematic procedures have been put in
place to collect traffic and road condition data and sophisticated models (the
World Bank Highway Design Model in particular) have been developed and/or
integrated with existing systems to define work priorities on a sound tech-
nical and economic basis and prepare preliminary designs. Although substan-
tial improvements in data collection and some refinement of the models are
still needed and more staff at all levels must learn to use the RMS effec-
tively, which the project would support, Indonesia now has an adequate capa-
city to prepare maintenance and betterment programs for its national and
provincial road network. While these efforts are consolidated in the coming
years, attention should also be brought to the planning and programming of
other types of work, mainly major upgrading of roads and bridges and new con-
struction (including that of high capacity roads), which have been given less
attention and are not well integrated in the overall PPB process so far.
Actions in these areas have already been satisfactorily defined: (i) DGH has
started to set up a bridge management system under Australian bilateral fund-
ing which is expected to be completed by mid-1992; (ii) DGH also plans to
strengthen its capability to evaluate the feasibility of road construction and
upgrading proposals by the end of 1990 under support from the proposed proj-
ect; this would give DGH the capacity to plan adequately the relatively large
expenditures which will be needed starting in about three to five years to
accommodate traffic growth on many parts of the network; (iii) several studies
already planned under separate projects (para. 3.18) are expected to help GOI
establish a strategy for addressing emerging congestion problems on the few
most important arteries.
2.25      District officials have primary responsibility for drawing up the
district road programs based on guidelines and within a funding envelope
determined by central government. Early attempts to improve planning started
with the introduction of the Inpres Jalan Program in 1979/80 and were
supported by external funding agencies e.g., the Bank's First Rural Roads
Project (Ln. 2083-IND). The efforts were not very successful mainly because
the institutional capabilities and the scope and extent of required changes in
procedures and attitudes at the district level had been severely underesti-
mated. Thus, inadequate arrangements were made for strengthening the planning
capabilities of district staff and introducing the new approaches. This was
the case in particular in respect of training, transitional provisions, bud-
gets for forward planning work and incentives to adopt improved procedures at
the district level. At present, practices are not yet satisfactory and,
except in a number of districts assisted by external donors, annual road
programs are not formulated on the basis of systematic network surveys. The
Government, however, is aware of the need to continue improving the district



- 14 -
road planning process and several significant improvements have already been
achieved, i.e., funds are now being allocated in the annual budget for
plaining, guidelines have been developed and arrangements for assistance from
provincial highway offices to district staff have been set in place. The
Second Rural Roads Project is assisting with the development and testing of
appropriate approaches suitable for adoption in the entire country.
Expenditures and Financina
2.26      The total volume of highway expenditures, their allocation to the
various road types as well as the structure of their financing have changed
rapidly over the past few years. First, as indicated in Table 2.8, total
expenditures have increased considerably in absolute volume and as a percent-
age of GOI's development budget. With about 22? of development expenditures
spent on roads in 1988/89, Indonesia now compares favorably to most of its
neighbors. It is a positive sign that despite a period of austere budgets,
GOI has given high priority to its road network. Second, a good part of the
increase has very soundly benefited national and provincial roads and particu-
larly maintenance and betterment activities. Expenditures on district roads
and toll roads have also increased considerably. Given that these started
from a relatively low basis, they have in fact increa ed more in relative
terms and now account for a higher share of total highway expenditures.
Third, the structure of road financing has also changed drastically. Given
the acute shortage of resources of the past few years, local funds have con-
tributed little to the increase in expenditures. The local funding of expen-
ditures on national and provincial roads has even dropped substantially ir.
real terms. On the contrary, foreign funds have increased very sharply from
19? to 65? of total road financing between 1984/85 and 1988/89. The change
has been particularly important for national and provincial roads, with the
share of foreign funds increasing from about 222 to about 79? of total
expenditures during the same period. As a result, any project on these roads
of a nonroutine nature is now dependent on the availability of foreign
funding. It has therefore become of vital importance that all foreign
financed programs on national and provincial roads be directed toward first-
priority activities and coordinated through a comprehensive expenditure plan.
E. Highway Design and Construction
2.27      Design of highways and bridges for the national roads and major
works for the provincial roads network has been the responsibility of the
engineering sections of the DGHs Directorate of Planning Including the nine
RBOs. The DBMs have been responsible for the design of lesser works on pro-
vincial roads and the DPUKe for all design for district roads, while DGH, upon
request, provides technical assistance to both for the design of roads and
bridges in their programs. Most of the work is done by consultants and
increasingly by local consultants.  Initial road design has been simplified in
orde: to cope with the large program for rehabilitation/betterment of recent
years through a computerized design system and limited field data. These
designs are then checked, updated and refined by the supervising team just
before construction which needs to be done in any case because of rapid dete-
rioration and the time lag between initial design surveys and start of con-
struction. As a part of the planned decentralization efforts, DGH intends to
transfer most design responsibilities to the DBMs, but details of these



- 15 -
arrangements have not been finalized. The proposed project provides
assistance for design to DGH and the DBMs.
2.28      Quality of roadworks is gradually getting better due to improving
specifications, contractor capabilities and supervision. Design and construc-
tion standards and specifications used for national and provincial roads are
generally adequate for the class of road, terrain and volume of traffic (Table
2.9). Under the Second Rural Roads Project DGH is also establishing standards
for district roads. However, as all of these standards and specifications
have been established over a rather long period as the need has arisen, the
proposed project provides assistance to review them, update, and revise them
in their entirety to provide state-of-the-art standards and specifications and
to ensure uniformity and compatibility within and between all road classes
(paras. 4.21). To improve quality and reduce cost of construction and main-
tenance through improved specifications. increased use of local materials and
faster transfer of technology, DGH has contracted with the Institute of Road
Engineering (IRE) in Bandung (one of three institutes of MPW's Agency for
Research and Development) and independent consultants to carry out various
studies and testing programs under ongoing highway projects. The proposed
project provides assistance to continue this important work (para. 4.21).
2.29      Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGHs three
Regional Implementation Directorates for the national roads and some of the
major works on provincial highways; with DBMs for the provincial roads and
some of the minor works on national roads; and with DPUKs for the district
roads. Under the planned decentralization, the DBMs will take over more of
DGH's responsibilities (para. 2.20). The works are executed under a variety
of arrangements. Execution by force account was the most common arrangement a
few years ago but has by now nearly disappeared and been replaced by contract-
ing arrangements which have proven considerably more cost-effective and should
now be the rule except for very limited emergency situations in the outer
islands. Still common for minor construction is. however, the use of small
contractors who supply labor and local materials but use equipment and some-
times manufactured materials supplied by the respective road authority. Some
ten years ago Indonesia had a relatively small number of experienced contract-
ing firms capable of executing major road works, and therefore DGH used mainly
foreign contractors for such jobs. Since then local capability has developed
so that there are now about 400 "Al class (with no upper limit of contract
price) and several thousand *BO class (eligible to bid on contracts up to Rp
500 million (US$300,000)] local contracting firms registered in Indonesia. In
addition, there are many thousands of small contractors, registered as class
"CO (eligibility ceiling of Rp 100 million (US$60,000)] carrying out small
contracts but also providing unskilled labor and production and transportation
of materials for larger contractors, government agencies and the private
sector.
2.30      GOI has long recognized the need to improve the capabilities of
local contractors. Several studies carried out in recent years have high-
lighted the sector's main weaknesses: (i) inadequate selection and contract
administration procedures and poor contract documents; (ii) weak support
institutions; (iii) lack of a supportive business environment (particularly in
the areas of finance, insurance, equipment supply and standards); and
(iv) shortage of skills and insufficient organization and technical capabi-
lities.  GOI has taken actions to address some of these problems such as



- 16 -
setting up and delivering training programs for contractors' personnel,
providing technical assistance to contractors under several foreign funded
projects, including road projects, and improving the system for licensing
contractors. Recognizing that a more comprehensive approach is needea to
promote faster development of the industry, GOI is now preparing a broad pro-
gram of actions to address all of the industries' weaknesses. Implementation
of the program is expected to start in 1990 with suppoit from the Bank.
F.  Highway Maintenance
2.31      Until recently, highway maintenance in Indonesia has received low
priority and execution has been substandard. Problems included both lack of
funds, technical matters, and personnel policies and have spanned the whole
spectrum of planning, programming, budgeting, design, procurement, execution,
supervision and monitoring.7/ The resulting cost to the economy has been
high, as it is estimated that vehicle operating costs on deteriorated roads
could be at least 252 lower if maintenance had been given adequate priority.
Recently, government priorities have shifted in a significant way towards more
and improved maintenance carried out by contract and state-of-the-art planning
systems for road programs are being put in place (para. 2.24).
l
2.32      The DBMs (i.e. their road maintenance units when decentralization is
complete) and the DPUKs are responsible for all aspects of road maintenance on
the provincial and district road networks respect -ely and the operational
responsibility for the maintenance of national r -  has been delegated to the
DBMs. DGH, however, retains responsibility for natIonal planning of mainte-
nance and, in practice, has a strong hand in the planning and upkeep of all
road classes through the issue if technical standards and guidelines and the
channeling of funds for road programs.
2.33      Maintenance expenditures for national and provincial roads increased
by about 1OZ annually during the first three years (1984185-1986/87) of
Repelita IV (table 2.8).  The amounts were, however, insufficient to ade-
quately maintain the growing network until 1987/88 when allocations were
increased to cover estimated requirements. Planned maintenance expenditures
for the network during Repelita V are considered adequate (para. 3.11).
2.34      Until 1987, road maintenance was mainly executed by force account
with a major shift towards contracting in 1988 as a means of handling the much
larger volume of work starting in that year. Although the quality of works
sti'l leaves much to be desired, the shift to contracted wo.ks has been accom-
panied by improved quality. The most common execution problems have been:
(i) lack 'f adherence to local procurement guidelines; (ii) poor supervision
of contractors in part due to lack of qualified personnel but also due to lack
of budget and equipment to carry out supervision properly; (iii) lack of qual-
ified contractors; (iv) somewhat inadequate standards and specifications for
maintenance works; (v) short contract periods; and (vi) inflexible budget.
2.35      Several measures for improving execution are underway or planned
under Bank-assisted projects. These include training of staff, including
7/   See Bank Report No. 7259-IND, Indonesia - Highway Maintenance Review,
July 29, 1988.



- 17 -
supervisors and project managers; strengthening of the construction industry;
and improved budgeting and monitoring. The proposed project will also provide
funds to improve activities such as planning, programming, budgeting and
designing (paras. 4.15, 4.16), improved standards and specifications
(para. 4.21), and further training. Ths use of multi-year contracts, even for
annual programs like those for maintenance, has now been accepted by GOI.
G. Sta'f and Training
2.36      The steadily increasing volume of work and the requirement for
higher quality of engineering imposes strnins on DGH as well as on the DBMs
and DPUKs. The DGH permanent staff has increased by some 1lO annually over
the last five years while the number of nonpermanent employees has more than
doubled over this period. Total DGH staff now exceeds 8,000, 4,000 of whom
are permanent. About 1,500 are professionals (about 1,000 engineers). Many
of DGH's staff are located in the provinces. Despite substantial efforts to
expand and upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel remains an
important problem for road authorities at all levels. The situationt has
become more acute with the change in skills mix required when force account
works were replaced by contract works.
2.37      Training continues to be a major element in .)GH human resources
management through both MPW's overall training activities and specific DGH
programs. The MHA also has training programs for administrative functions,
and it occasionally conducts training in development planning for provincial
and district staff. Ongoing highway projects are providing for both classroom
and on-the-job training of DGH, IRE, DPUP and DPUF staff. There is, however,
a need for a more systematic and coordinated approach to the whole problem of
human resource planning and training and assistance in this respect will be
provided under the Public Works Institutional Development and Training
Project, Loan 3112-IND (and a possible complementary Australian Aid project).
The proposed project will also provide for training DGH and DBM staff
(paras. 4.8, 4.15-4.17, 4.26-4.29) and for transport industry staff
(para. 4.30).
H. Environmental Aspects
2.38      Indonesia has established general laws and regulations for the
protection of the environment which provide a framework for specific guide-
lines and institutional development measures now being devised and implemented
by sector ministries. In this context, MPW has begun to give itself the capa-
bility to carry out and review assessments of the cnvironmental impact of its
civil works projects. ADB has in particular already provided technical assis-
tance for this purpose to MPW. In addition, under its Tenth Road Project, ADB
will provide technical assistance to DGH to prepare environmental guidelines
and manuals and carry out training for DGH staff, consultants, alid contractors
to adequately consider environmental safeguards in the design and construction
of road works. Terms of reference for this assistance have been reviewed by
Bank staff and found satisfactory.
2.39      Vehicle emission control, including the setting of standards and
implementation of programs, should form part of the GOI general air pollution
monitoring and control efforts. With assistance provided under the Bank-
assisted Jabotabek Urban Development Project, monitoring of vehicle-related



i ~~~~~~~~~-18 -
air pollution has been initiated and on this basis a national strategy for
controlling vehicle emission will be developed. The Traffic and Safety
Directorate of DGLC, created in 1989, is responsible for vehicle emission
control and, through actions aimed at strengthening DGLC, the proposed project
will also help progress in this area.
I. Overall Efficiency in the Road Sector
2.40      Total costs of road transport considered as a whole are determined
by policies on road construction and maintenance on the one hand and policies
on road use on the other. These policies need to be formulated in a coordina-
ted manner. Although Indonesia has already started using the much improved
planning tools which have been developed in recent years for dealing with
these questions, current cost levels are still largely the result of past
practices. Imbalance between allocations of resources to categories of roads
and types of activities (e.g. inadequate maintenance), leads to higher vehicle
operating costs for the economy over many years. Moreover, inappropriate road
designs in the past and poor standards of execution (particularly at the
district level) combined with vehicle overloading have caused extensive road
deterioration which in turn also increases vehicle operating costs. To secure
the full potential benefits of the large highway sector outlays, the improved
expenditure p;olicies ond implementation practices will need to be pursued
vigorously and be further refined.
2.41      Considerable additional reductions in tot.al transport costs can be
achieved thtrough improved road use policies, which are largely the responsi-
bility of ti.e MOC. The inappropriate vebicle/axie weight and dimension regu-
lations and the low taxation of heavy vehicles are not conducive to the choice
of efficient vehicles. Policy measures in these areas which are coordinated
with road expenditure policies can now also be initiated as the problems and
their solutions have been clearly identified. GOI has started tackling these
problems in an integrated manner and is committed to improve the overall
efficiency of the subsector as described in Chapter 3.



- 19 -
3. ROAD SUBSECTOR POLICIES AND THE ROAD EXPENDITURE PROGRAH
DURING REPELITA V
A. Objectives and Scope
3.1      The Government's aim during Repelita V is to promote the development
of a transport systetm which is capable of responding efficiently to the
nation's rapidly growing transport demands. This requires that the different
policies which have a bearing on the overall efficiency of the transport
system be improved and formulated in a coordinated manner. Following a cri-
tical review of past policies and taking into account recommendations of
studies carried out in recent years, the Government has prepared a comprehen-
sive Policy Statement and Action Plan (PS&AP) which is to govern the develop-
ment of roads and road traffic and transport in the medium term. Measures
have been formulated under seven policy areas: (i) the legal and regulatory
framework, (ii) institutional strengthening, (iii) intermodal transport,
(iv) road works planning, programming a&d execution, (v) road user taxation,
(vi) vehicle weight and dimension limits, and (vii) road traffic safety. The
PS&AP was formulated by a working group with the participation of all con-
cerned parties and the emphasis was placed on proper coordination and integra-
tion of policies and programs which span the responsibilities of severai. min-
istries or departments. The focus is on interurban transport. Timely
implementation of the PS&AP will be of key importance for improving the over-
all efficiency of the subsector and for securing the full potential benefits
of highway expenditures. Preparatory work for measures to be taken in the
near term is well advanced and subsequent measures have been carefully staged.
The PS&AP was reviewed and agreed in draft by the appraisal mission and issued
formally by letter dated October 9, 1989 from the State Minister of
Planning/Chairman of BAPPENAS. Agreement was reached at negotiations that any
material changes to the Action Plan would be made in consultation with the
Bank. In conjunction with the PS&AP, GOI is also planning a large volume of
expenditures to improve the quality of its national and provincial interurban
road network. To optimize the use of resources, GOI has prepared a comprehen-
sive three-year expenditure plan and a 1989/90 work program and budget which
it intends to update annually (paras. 3.10 to 3.16). Agreement was reached at
negotiations on annual implementation reviews of the Action Plan, and of per-
formance under the FYs 1989/90, 1990/91 and 1991/92 work programs and budgets
no later than March 31, 1990, 1q91 and 1992. The main components of the
PS&AP, the expenditure plan and the budgets are summarized in the following.
The full statement and action plan are shown in Annex 1.
B. Principal Policies
3.2      Regulatory Policies.  The overall objective of these policy measures
is to modernize and streamline the regulatory framework and thereby foster a
more efficient and safer road transport industry. This will be achieved
through: (i) modernizing the rules and regulations on vehicles and traffic to
bring these in line with worldwide developments in road transport during the
past several decades; and (ii) eliminating the remaining restrictive economic
regulations affecting the road transport industry and introducing quality
licencing requirements. Drafts of the new laws and regulations as well as a
regulation which would realign responsibilities for these matters among
agencies have been prepared and the introduction of the new regime is targeted



- 20 -
for the first half of 1990. Implementation will be facilitated following the
decentralization of certain road traffic and transport functions to be
effected by end 1989 (para. 3.3).
3.3      Institutional Reform.  The object  e of the institutional measures is
to improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the agencies in the
subsector with emphasis on DGLC. This will be achieved through: (i) reorga-
nization and restructuring of DGLC; (ii) greater decentralization coupled with
clearer delineation of responsibilities; (iii) upgrading of management, inter
alia, through improved procedures and training. A streamlining of MOC's
regional representation was already carried out in 1988. The restructuring of
DGLC was initiated in May 1989 and is targeted to be fully implemented by end
1990 with completion of preparation of guidelines and procedures by mid 1991.
In parallel, master plans for staff development and training and for improved
inFormation systems will be prepared (para. 4.24).
3.4      Intermodal Transport.  The policy measures in this area are aimed at
reducing total transport system costs through optimal use of existing infra-
structure and facilities and in particular through fully exploiting the com-
parative advantage of each mode and the cost saving potential of intermodal
transport. This will be achieved through an integrated approach covering:
(i) gradual elimination of subsidies distorting the relative competitiveness
of the modes; (ii) improvements in operational efficiency of rail and maritime
transport; (iii) the coordination of the above policies with infrastructure
develor ent policies; and (iv) providing greater opportunities for the private
sectot zo operate and develop within the streamlined framework.  Measures
already initiated include the establishment of inland container depots and the
deregulation of the freight forwarding industry which has been given increased
opportunities to become involved in intermodal transport. In addition,
specific actions planned include the carrying out of a land transport develop-
ment study which would detail the overall policy rramework and outline future
invostment requirements. A national origin-destination survey which provides
essential input for this study is already under way.
3.5      Road Works Planning, Programming and Execution.  Measures under this
policy area aim at maximizing the benefits of resources made available for
road works in the country as a whole. This will be achieved by (i) allocating
resources to categories of road works (maintenance, rehabilitation/betterment,
upgrading, capacity expansion) and to classes of roads primarily on the basis
of the economic return of the respective works; (ii) pursuing the development
of planning/programming methods and the improvement of technical capabilities
including the production of technical and environmental guidelines; and
(iii) consolidating the decentralization of implementation responsibilities
and the execution of works by contract.  The development of rational systems
and of an integrated framework for the planning, programming, budgeting and
design of roadworks has been underway for several years.  The new systems have
already benefited the preparation of the three-year expenditure plan (para.
3.10) and the 19Sio90 work program and budget and are planned to be used as
the main tool for the preparation of the 1990/91 and 1991/92 work programs and
budgets (para. 3.15 and 3.16). Emphasis will also be placed on coordination
of programs for road works with other measures and policies which affect the
type and volume of traffic in particular corridors. Guidelines for assessing
and minimizing the environmental impact of road projects will be prepared by
the end of 1991.



- 21 -
3.6      Road User Taxation.  The principal aim of the road user taxation
policy is to help reduce overall costs of goods transport by providing incen-
tives for goods to be transported by more efficient vehicles or a more effi-
cient mode of transport. A second objective is to raise additional revenues
in particular at the regional level. More efficient choices in the transport
market will be induced through the progressive introduction of higher taxation
of commercial vehicles (using a combination of fuel pric6s and registration
fees) which reflects as closely as possible the road wear and tear costs of
these vehicles. The MOC Secretariat will be responsible for preparing recom-
mendations in consultation with other concerned departments and for
coordinating the review. A team will be established to evaluate alternative
options for implementing the policy and to prepare detailed recommendations.
Priority will be given to revising the annual vehicle registration fees and
relating these to the road deterioration impact of the various axle configura-
-|         tions.  A first stage adjustment of the taxes towards full coverage by heavy
commercial vehicles of their attributable infrastructure costs by end 1994 is
targeted for December 1990.
3.7      Vehicle Weights and Dimensions (VWD).  Policies in this area will
contribute to reducing the total system costs of goods transport by permitting
the operation of more economical vehicle types and by containing the road
damage caused by heavy vehicles. In the short term (before end 1989) this
will be achieved by legitimizing the movement of containers on suitably con-
figured vehicles on roads which can already accommodate such vehicles. For
the longer term a coordinated program of measures/actions will be implemented
covering: (i) revised regulations on vehicles and traffic (para. 3.2);
(ii) road and bridge upgrading; (iii) revised systems for classifying and
marking vehiclec and routes; and. (iv) improved enforcement of the regula-
tions. The basic studies and proposals for revised VWD limits have already
been completed. Close consultation between the MOC, DGH, the Traffic Police,
the vehicle manufacture/assembly industry and the truckers' association will
be instituted for review and subsequent implementation of the proposals. The
detailed action plan for implementation of the new VWD limits and associated
vehicle and road classification systems will be prepared by end 1990.
3.8      Traffic Safety.  The traffic safety policies aim at securing a rapid
and significant reduction in accid(at rates and in the related human loss and
physical damage. This will be achieved through various programs covering:
(i) priority black-spot reduction on interurban roads; (ii) the upgrading of
accident data collection, reporting and analysis systems; (iii) improvement in
the capability of the Traffic Police through training, technical assistance
and provision of equipment; and (iv) public awareness campaigns. The
increased importance attached to safety is indicated by the establishment
within DGLC of a Directorate with specific responsibility for road safety and
charg:d, inter alia, with promoting and coordinating measures designed to
improve road traffic safety by all agencies involved. Starting in 1990 the
Directorate will convene annual workshops on traffic safety in which all
concerned organizations and agencies will participate.



- 22 -
C. Three-year Expenditure Plan for National and Provincial Roads
Repelita V Context
3.9      Expenditures for national and provincial roads account for a con-
siderable part of Repelita V, GOI's Five Year (1989/90 to 1993194) Development
Plan (Rp 8,361 billion in constant 1989 terms or about 1OX of all expendi-
tures, which comrres to about Rp 4,500 billion or about 8? in the previous
plan).  This is   reflection of GOI's sustained policy of the past years to
place the improvement of transport infrastructure among its primary objec-
tives. Targets for national and provincial roads are very ambitious. GOI
mainly plans to: (i) bring all roads, except those with very low traffic, to
their *efficient condition, i.e. essentially the quality level which mini-
mizes the sum of infrastructure and road user cost over time, or maintain them
at this level if already in the efficient condition; (ii) ensure minimum ser-
viceability levels on those roads where the very low traffic would not justify
any intervention; (iii) replace all bridges which have exceeded their economic
life; and (iv) start to address the congestion problems of the main arteries
and to upgrade the most heavily used freight routes, as well as build a few
new roads in key development areas. As a result, about 13,000 km of roads
would undergo periodic maintenance, 33,500 km would be rehabilitated (through
"betterment" works), 51,000 m of bridges would be replaced, and 4,000 m of new
bridges and 1,100 km of roads would be constructed or upgraded. Heavy
emphasis is placed on maintenance and rehabilitation; they would account for
about 75? of all expenditures for works. In general, this expenditure
strategy for national and provincial roads is sound. It has two main weak-
nesses, however, Mi) the estimate of availability of local and external funds
is very optimistic; and (ii) the program for network development is not based
on adequate considerations of alternative technical solutions and economic
benefits. The three-year expenditure plan below is an answer to the first
weakness. In addition, the strengthening of GOI planning capability and the
various investment studies to be undertaken soon (para. 2.24) should also give
aGI the means to address the second weakness in future planning efforts.
Three-year Expenditure Plan
3.10          Activities and Expenditures.  GOI has prepared a core plan of
high priority activities on inter-urban national and provincial roads for its
1989/90 to 1991/92 fiscal years, the implementation period of the proposed
project. The goal of this core plan is to take account of the limited avail-
ability of local and foreign funds and to provide a comprehensive and coherent
framework to guide GOI's decision-making in preparing annual budgets and for-
eign funded projects. The plan is based on an estimate .f future disburse-
ments for already committed foreign funds and a reasonable, yet somewhat
ambitious, forecast of local and additional foreign funds for roads. Given
these constraints, the plan concentrates almost exclusively on maintenance,
betterment and bridge replacement activities. All other expenditures are
drastically curtailed. Details of the core plan and its physical targets are
given in Table 3.1. Expenditures are summarized belows



- 23 -
Planned Expenditures
Activity                        1989190        1990/91     1991/92       Total      2 of
Rp la US$ fb   Rp   USS    Rp   US$    Rp   US$    Total
Maintenance                    313   177      258  146    478  270  1,049   593    24.5
Betterment                     558   316      849  480    562  318  1,969 1,112    46.2
Bridge replacement             158    89      124   70    167   94    449   254    10.5
New Construction/Upgrading      20    11        37   21    103   58    160    90      3.7
Administration                 181   102      220  124    246  139    647   366    15.1
Total                   1,230   695    1,488  841  1,556  879  4,274 2,415   100.0
/a   Current Rupiah billion with GOI's assumption that unit costs would increase 82
per year, which is slightly over but consistent with the Bank's own inflation
estimates.
/b   Cu:rrent US$ million with US$1 = Rp 1,770.
3.11      The justification of maintenance and betterment expenditures is
strong. They have been established by province and for specific types of
works, through DGH's new sophisticated planning methodologies, which are based
on the analysis of alternative improvement strategies for standard road links,
the selection of optimum treatments, and the programming of subprojects in
accordance with their economic returns (para. 5.4). During the planned three-
year period, all maintenance needs would be fulfilled and a considerable part
of the backlog of betterment would be eliminated, while a holding treatment
would be applied on the roads for which betterment is justified but cannot be
done sooner for lack of funds. As a result, about 8,500 km of roads would
undergo periodic maintenance and about 20,000 km would be improved. Bridge
replacement would proceed at a pace about 152 higher than in previous years;
about 24,000 m of bridges which have exceeded their service life would be
replaced. Because of financing constraints, less than 42 of the plan total
expenditures would b- spent on new construction, road upgrading and land
acquisition. This may underestimate the needs for network development, a
consequence of the lack of in-depth analysis in this area during Repelita V's
preparation.  This should be corrected in the plan's annual updates after
DGH's capability in this area is strengthened. Expenditures for administra-
tion, about 15Z of the plan's total costs, are reasonable. While almost all
of the plan's activities are justified by high economic returns, their
rationale will become less strong as the network improves and more marginal
projects with lower-traffic are undertaken. If resources turned out to be
scarcer than estimated, there would be scope for reducing expenditures by
postponing part of the large betterment component. In addition, although the
plan's targets are consistent with the implementation capacity which DGH has
recently demonstrated, their achievement may be expected to put much pressure
on DGH with possible delays if unforeseen circumstances occur. Adjustments to
the targets, on the basis of annual results in particular, will be made every
year when the plan is rolled over (para. 3.14).



- 24 -
3.12      Financing.  The expenditure plan would be financed as follows:
Current Rp   Current US$
Source of Funds                             billion       million      Z of total
1.  Local funds:
Central and Provincial Governments  1,218             688          28.5
Value added tax discount                369           209           8.7
2.  Ongoing and committed foreign loans    1,350              763         31.5
3.  New Loans:  ADB Tenth Loan                 106             60          2.5
OECF loans                    349            197          8.2
EXIM Bank of Japan loans       91             51          2.1
New IBRD loan                 620            350         14.5
To be determined              171             97          4.0
Total                                  4,274         2,415         100.0
The estimate of Central and Provincial Government funds is based on past
years' actuals and assumes a 152 growth in real terms. Ongoing and committed
foreign loans (including the IBRD loans made between 1981 and 1986) are
der-ailed in Table 3.2. The above estimate assumes that their entire balance
wouid be disbursed during the three-year plan's period, which is realistic.
The new foreign loans are firm. The ADB Loan (US$120 million about 50X of
which would be expended during the plan's period) was negotiated in early July
1989; it would mainly finance the betterment of high priority roads (Teath
Road Project).  The two new OECF loans have been announced at the IGGI meeting
in June 1989. The first, which is intended to finance OECF's Second Nine
Provinces Road Rehabilitation Project, is expected to amount to about US$170
million about two thirds of which would be expended during the plan's period.
The second OECF loan, its Second Sector Program loan, will finance expendi-
tures in many different sectors. GOI is planning to use about Rp 142 billion
equivalent of this loan to finance works on interurban national and provincial
roads. Japan EXIM Bank's new financing has also been announced at the last
IGGI meeting. It is intended to cofinance ongoing ADB and IBRD projects for
national and provincial roads. The Bank loan (US$350 million) woul4 cover
about 15.9Z of the plan's total cost, net of taxes. Funds would be disbursed
in about equal amounts each year on priority subprojects selected as part of
the annual budget process (para. 4.35). The data presented in Table 3.3 shows
that with the exception of administration activities and new construction,
maintenance is still proportionately underfunded. It should therefore receive
first priority in the allocation of all new funds, including those of the
proposed project and of the other projects which are currently being final-
ized.
3.13      As shown above, Rp 171 billion, about 4.0? of all expenditures are
expected to be funded by loans which have yet to be determined.  Most of these
expenditures would take place in the second and especially the third year of
the plan. GOI has, in particular, submitted a proposal to the Japanese EXIM-
Bank for their consideration.



- 25 -
3.14      Future Revisions.  In order to continue to be a useful tool to pre-
pare budgets and foreign-funded projects, GOI's three-year core expenditure
plan should be rolled over annually on the basis of the new data on road con-
dition which is to be collected each year in accordance to DGH's PPB process
as well as of any needed adjustment in implementation schedules and changes in
the availability of local and foreign funds. At negotiations, an agreement
was reached with GOI that it would: (i) starting in its fiscal year 1989/90,
prepare axnnually a draft rolled-over expenditure plan covering the following
three fiscal years for all interurban national and provincial roads on the
basis of a reasonable forecast of available local and foreign funds and in
accordance with a methodology which is acceptable to the Bank (that of DGH's
integrated road management system or any new version refined on the basis of
experience--details are in Annex 2); and (ii) provide the Bank with such draft
no later than December 1, 1989 and 1990, discuss it with the Bank, and, soon
thereafter, issue it, taking the Bank's comments into account.
D. Annual Work Programs and Budgets
3.15      GOI's FY1989/90 budget for National and Provincial Roads corres-
ponds to the expenditure plan's first year. On the basis of DGH's PPB system,
it establishes a precise work program for each province and allocates local
and foreign funds to specific subprojects. This budget was reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found acceptable. Details are in the Project file.
Subprojects with an economic rate of return above 152 are eligible for financ-
ing out of the proposed Bank loan (para. 4.35). As is usually the case in
road programs,however, the 1989190 budget is quite heavily dependent on
ongoing subprojects which cannot be changed. Some of these as well as some
new subprojects have been selected for equity and long term regional develop-
ment reasons and could not be considered as first priority undertakings on the
basis of strict economic criteria. Nevertheless, in most cases, these sub-
projects serve a useful development purpose and their total cost is limited to
approximately 25Y of total budgeted expenditures in 1989190.
3.16      Work programs and budgets for 1990/91 and 1991/92 will be prepared
in accordance with GOI's national budgeting procedures and on the basis of
DGH's road management system. It is also expected that they would take
account of medium-term implications on the use of resources as revealed by the
updated expenditure plan. Furthermore, given that subprojects which are
already ongoing will gradually reach completion and since the shortage of
resources may be expected to remain high, GOI should continue its efforts to
optimize work programs and budgets. At negotiations, an agreement was reached
with GOI that: (a) its 1990/91 and 1991/92 work programs and budgets would
satisfy economic and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank; the main
criteria are that (i) all routine and periodic road maintenance needs will be
fulfilled and (ii) the total value of subprojects with an internal economic
rate of return of less than 15? will be less than 20? of nonmaintenance
expenditures (see Annex 2); and (b) it would provide the Bank with a draft
work program and budget for its review and comments no later than February 28
of 1990 and 1991. A format for the presentation of the budget (which is
likely to include 500 to 700 separate subprojects each year) was agreed at
negotiations. It will provide key information in a comprehensive and concise
m.nner and permit a rapid analysis of the budget.



- 26 -
E. Toll Roads
3.17      In addition to improving its national and provincial roads network,
GOI is planning a substantial extension (about 225 km) of its system of toll
roads in urban and interurban areas.  In accordance w.l' GOI's current pol-
icy, new toll roads would not be financed by State funas except in some cases
for land acquisition. They would be built, financed and operated by private
joint-ventures which would include the State Toll Road authority, PT Jasa
Marga, as a minority partner. A similar implementation strategy is being
followed by several countries in the world and, although it involves difficult
legal and financial arrangements, it has proven a useful way to increase the
volume of funds and the efficiency of their use in the road sector. As a
consequence, however, actual implementation of projects is likely to depend
much on the availability and financial capability of privat- joint venture
partners. For this reason and because of their off-budget nature, toll roads
are not part of the above expenditure plan.
3.18      The planning of toll roads should nevertheless be given careful
attention because (a) they should complement national and provincial roads,
and (ii) given the magnitude of resources which these projects would mobilize,
they need to be prepared with detailed analysis of technical alternatives,
economic benefits and environmental implications. GOI has already planned
several studies, to be financed under ongoing Bank and ADB projects in par-
ticular, to clarify its toll road strategy. One is expected to identify
medium-term investment priorities mainly among the toll road projects which
are being contemplated. Two others will analyze modal alternatives in
Indonesia's main transport corridors on the longer-term and recommend policy
improvements and priorities for development of infrastructures (including toll
roads). In addition, at negotiations, an agreement was reached with GOI that
before authorizing the implementation of any toll road project, it would carry
out, or cause to be carried out, a feasibility study based on generally recog-
nized sound economic and environmental methodologies and give the Bank an
opportunity to comm nt on the results of the study.



- 27 -
4. BANK PARTICIPATION
A. Project Background and Formulation
4.1       The GOI has recognized the need for improvements in the road sub-
sector and has taken several steps in recent years particularly in regard to
improving road maintenance and the execution of roadworks. However, measures
in key policy areas affecting the efficiency of the subsector have been
limited and neither guided by clear principles nor well coordinated. After
several years of preparatory work under previous highway projects, GOI has
prepared, and is committed to implement a Policy Statement and an associated
Action Plan specifying measures in key policy ereas concerning road transport
and road use (para. 3.1). The proposed project, a logical continuation of the
Bank's involvement in the subsector, is designed to assist GOI in these
efforts. The loan will finance a slice of about 15.9Z of the entire expen-
diture plan (net of taxes) for interurban national and provincial roads for
the three year period of 1989/90-1991/92. Any suibproject or component under
the 1989/90-1991/92 road development and maintenance programs will be a
potential candidate for Bank financing. Specific subprojects to be financed
under the loan will be identified annually on the basis of agreed selection
criteria and implementation procedures (paras. 3.16, 4.35-4.42) and the list
of subprojects will be updated and new subprojects added at the annual
implementation reviews.
B. ObJectives
4.2       The main objective of the project is to assist GOI in improving the
efficiency of the road subsector. The project supports GOI's Policy Statement
and Action Plan and the comprehensive three year expenditure plan for the road
subsector which aim at:
(a) consolidating recent improvements in the formulation and implemen-
tation of subsector expenditures;
(b) instituting improved policies on road transport and road use;
(c) improving and strengthening the road subsector institutions of the
central and provincial levels through technical assistance, studies
and training; and
(d) improving the quality of interurban national and provincial roads by
focusing on maintenance and rehabilitation/betterment works.
C. Description of Bank Financed Components
General
4.3       The project includes:  (i) technical assistance, studies and
training to assist in the implementation of the PS&AP; and (ii) specific sub-
projects of the three year expenditure plan selected annually on the basis of
agreed procedures and economic and technical criteria. Major components of
the works programs for national and provincial roads are defined in terms of
annual expenditures and physical targets and described in Chapter 3 and



- 28 -
associated Tables. Components to be f'nanced by the proposed loan will
include road and bridge improvement and maintenance, road safety measures,
technical assistance and training and are comprised of subprojects of civil
works, procurement of equipment and consultancy services.
Road and Bridge Improvement and Maintenance
4.4       DGH has submitted a first list of subprojects which are suitable for
Bank financing: 1,207 km of road rehabilitation/betterment works, 2,385 km of
periodic maintenance works and 9,713 m of bridges with estimated total cost at
US$66.9, US$159.6, and US$41.6 respectively (Table 4.1). The subsequent two
lists will be submitted no later than February 28, 1990 and 1991, respec-
tively. The civil works will be designed and their procurement and implemen-
tation supervised by DBM staff and consultants.
4.5       Road Rehabilitation/Betterment:  These works will be carried out on
seriously deteriorated sections of national and provincial roads in various
parts of the country and selected on the baris of technical and economic cri-
teria. The works will be designed for a ten-year lifetime in accordance with
agreed standards and would generally comprise, as required, improvement of
side and cross drainage and repairs, widening and strengthening of pavements
and sho_.lders. All pavements will be strengthened by bituminous overlays
designed on the basis of existing condition (measured deflection under load)
and traffic volume and loadings projected for the next ten years. Works will
be carried out on existing alignment.
4.6       Periodic Maintenance:  These works will be carried out on numerous
sections of the national and provincial roads network in all parts of the
country where: (a) pavement deterioration is still moderate and can be
corrected by relatively simple measures such as bituminous surface treatment
or a single hot rolled sheet overlay; or (b) where low cost pavements of earth
or gravel need improvement to engineered gravel standard. Although selected,
designed and executed as described above for the rehabilitation/betterment
component, works will be of much smaller scope and cost.
4.7       Bridge Replacement:  These works include bridges on the national and
provincial roads in various parts of the country that have reached the end of
their service life and became traffic bottlenecks for one or more of the fol-
lowing reasons: (a) severe load limitations because of low initial design
loads or advanced structural deterioration; (b) width restrictions; or
(c) hazardous hydrological conditions. Selection of bridges for replacement
will be based on agreed technical and economic criteria and designs are basee
on agreed standards.
4.8       Support to the DBMs.  The decentralization of DGH functions to the
provincial level will place an extreme burden on the 26 DBMs who will now
become the main highway agencies responsible for preparation and implementa-
tion of all work programs for national and provincial roads, including data
collection, design, execution, supervision and monitoring.  In addition to
planned staff transfers from DGH to the DBM there is a need for two to three
expatriate and local experts to provide all-around technical support for each
DBM (some of which will be provided by ADB and OECF), but who will also carry             I
out on-the-job training.  The project will, therefore, provide consultancy                D
services to the DBMs for a total of 1,404 staff-months, 405 staff-months of



- 29 -
foreign a-ad 999 staff-months of local consultants services.  De;ailed terms of
reference were agreed at negotiations and are available in the Project File.
4.9       Design and Supervision of Road and Bridge Works.  Most design of
road works and bridges will, be carried out by local consultants using DGH's
standards, procedures and systems. A total of 2,500 km of betterment works,
3,000 km of periodic maintenance works and 14,000 m of new bridges will be
designed. This amounts to about 122 of the total national and provincial
roads program for betterment works, 35Z of maintenance works and 582 of
bridges estimated to be designed during the project period. The remainder of
the programs will be designed with assistance under projects financed by other
donors. Supervision of road- and bridgeworks will be carried out by DBM staff
supplemented and strengthened by local consultants. The project will thus
provide consultancy services to DGH and the DBMs for a total of 6,750 staff-
months. Detailed terms of reference were agreed at negotiations and are
available in the Project File.
Road Traffic Safety
4.10      Land transport safety is being given increased importance as evi-
denced by the creation of a separate directorate of safety within the newly
reorganized DGLC. The road safety component will include civil works, equip-
ment and consultancy (advisory) services on the basis of the findings of the
recently completed Highway Safety Program (HSP) financed under recent and
ongoing Bank financed highway projects.
4.11      Civil Works:  The works will include measures to:  eliminate known
accident blackspots. Improve horizontal and vertical geometry to lengthen
sight distance, improve road surface friction, improve existing and erect new
traffic signs and guard rails, and separate traffic streams. The works will
be designed by DGH in cooperation with DGLC and implemented through DGH's
regular work programs.
4.12      Equipment:  To enhance accident reporting and analysis, the traffic
police and DGLC need specialized equipment for accident data collection,
storage and processing. DGLC is also in need of equipment for, inter alia,
vehicle testing and inspection. A list of equipment will be agreed with GOI
when review by the road safety consultants (para. 4.13) is complete.
4.13      Advisory Services for DGLC:  The road traffic safety advisory ser-
vices will assist DGLC's new directorate of safety to develop and implement an
initial program of measures building upon the findings of the HSP and will
involve the provision of assistance with, inter alias (a) the identification
of serious accident blackspots on interurban roads, particularly on Java and
Sumatra; (b) the preparation, implementation and monitoring of a pilot program
of safety improvement measures at the worst locations; (c) the further refine-
ment and wider implementation of improved traffic accident data collection,
reporting and analysis procedures; (d) the preparation of proposals and a
program for strengthening the administration and enforcement of road safety-
related regulations; (e) the review of experience with vehicle testing and
preparation of recommendations for improvements; and (f) the design and tar-
geting of road safety awareness campaigns. This will require 33 staff-months
of foreign and 30 staff-months of local expert assistance. Detailed terms of
reference were agreed at negotiations and are available in the Project File.



- 30 -
Technical Assistance
4.14      The various agencies involved in roads and road transport need tech-
nical assistance for institutional strengthening and to help with the prepara-
tion and implementation of policy measures. A total of 2,004 staff-months
would be required, 974 staff-months of foreign and 1,030 staff-months of local
experts' services (Table 4.2). As these services would address most of the
needs of the road subsector and associated institutions including some of
those required by projects financed by other donors, the amount of services is
greater than in traditional highway projects. Another reason is the fast pace
of decentralization set by the government as well as expanding road operations
in general. GOI's objectives are to ensure high technical quality of
planning, programming, budgeting, design, construction and monitoring of road
works, while at the same time developing local capabilities to reduce the need
for foreign technical guidance. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with GOl on the terms of reference for most technical assistance and the terms
of reference are available in the Project File.
4.15      Planning Programming and Budgeting. As DGH's integrated planning
programming and budgeting systems are still new and have so far only been used
by a core group in DGH, considerable support will be needed to train and
assist Central and Provincial staff in their use and in the preparation of
future work programs and budgets. Improvement in data collection, refinement
of the planning and programming models, and coding of systems' improvements
will also be needed. In addition DGH needs to strengthen its capability to
evaluate the feasibility of road construction and upgrading proposals (para.
2.24).  For this purpose, the project will provide technical assistance to
DGH's Sub-Directorate for General Planning for a total of about 148 staff-
months, 108 staff-months of foreign and 40 staff-months of local consultants
services.
4.16      Engineering Development.  DGH will need support to (i) further
develop its technical and contractual policies and procedures and incorporate
these improvements in its systems for roadworks design and preparation of
tender documents; and (ii) assist and control provincial staff in the prepara-
tion of road designs and contract documents and in the resolution of technical
issues during implementation. For this purpose, the project will provide
technical assistance to DGH's Engineering Sub-Directorate for a total of about
243 staff-months, 108 staff-months of foreign and 135 staff-months of local
consultants services.
4.17      Implementation Quality Improvement.  DGH needs to develop and imple-
ment a mechanism for effective quality control and monitoring (including tech-
nical audits) of road works in a decentralized environment. This will include
training of a few DGH engineers (from the Directorates of Implementation), 80
DBM supervision *mgineers, over 300 provincial laboratory staff, some 550
project managers and some 1,100 contractors' and consultants' staff. For this
purpose, the project will provide technical assistance to DGH in the amount of
152 staff-months of expatriate engineers and 140 staff-months of local labora-
tory technician services. The project also provides for laboratory and field
testing equipment for US$0.24 million (Table 4.3).



- 31 -
4.18      Hiahway Capacity Manual.  Traffic and infrastructure in Indonesia
differ from those of the industrialized countries to such an extent that for-
eign methodologies do not apply. The development of Indonesia's highway capa-
city manual for urban and intercity roads and traffic is therefore urgent.
For this purpose the project will provide technical assistance to DGH for a
total of 152 staff-months, 56 staff-months of foreign and 96 staff-months of
local consultants' services.
4.19      MIS.  DGH management information system needs much improvement to
generate better data for monitoring contract execution and monitoring and
forecasting disbursement of local and foreign funds. For this purpose, the
project will provide technical assistance to DGH programming and information
division for a total of 87 staff-months of consultants services, 12 staff--
months of foreign and 75 staff-months of local consultants services.
4.20      Central Axle Load Survey Unit.  DGH has started a limited but sys-
tematic weigh-in-motion program to monitor axle loads and vehicle weights in
order to improve pavement design and analyze the damaging power of vehicles in
relation to appropriate road user taxation. The program needs to be continued
and expanded. For this purpose, the project provides for technical assistance
for a total of 174 staff-months, 30 staff-months of foreign and 144 staff-
months of local consultants' services as well as for new weigh-in-motion
equipment and spare parts for existing equipment in the amount of US$0.81
million (Table 4.3).
4.21      IRE.  Under previous highway projects, the Institute has been pro-
vided with some assistance in areas such as pavement monitoring and research,
materials inventory and mapping, geotechniques, traffic (including road
safety) and research training. Continued assistance is required in these
areas but also in consolidating studies and research on the local rock asphalt
(Asbuton), in the testing of new materials, equipment and technology and in
unifying standards and specifications for all road classes. For this purpose,
the project would provide technical assistance to IRE under two contracts for
a total of 429 staff-months, 234 staff-months of foreign and 195 staff-months
of local consultants' services. The project also provides for additional
laboratory and research equipment for US$0.52 million (Table 4.3).
4.22      Quality Control and Maintenance Management of Toll Roads.  The
expanding toll roads network needs improved systems for quality control and
maintenance management. While the basics of DGH's systems can be used to some
extent, they need to be changed and refined with regard to the different needs
of these limited access, high volume, high speed roads. For this purpose the
project provides for technical assistance to Jasa Marga for a total of 145
staff-months, 95 staff-months of foreign and 50 staff-months of local consul-
tants' services. The project also provides for laboratory and pavement test-
ing equipment for US$0.33 million (Table 4.3).
4.23      Road User Taxation Reform (MOC).  MOC has been given responsibility
for coordinating the preparation of proposals for improving the road user
taxation regime and monitoring the impact of changes introduced. A technical
team will be established in MOC, whose duties will include inter alias
(a) the review of recent road user taxation studies and the updating and the
evaluation of their conclusions and recommendations; (b) the development of
detailed proposals for the phased reform of the present structure and level of



- 32 -
charges; and (c) the development and implementation of arrangements for moni-
toring on a continuing basis the ext3nt to which user taxes for the different
categories of vehtcles cover their attributable infrastructure costs. In the
first stage of its work during the period Z%.ober 1989 - March 1990 the HOC
team will be assisted by a short-term advisor financed under the Bank's
National Ports Development Project. Thereafter the HOC team will require
continuing odvisory services to put in place the necessary monitoring and
evaluation procedures and to develop detailed proposals for subsequent
reforms. These latter services will require 15 staff-months expatriate expert
assistance spread over a period of two to three years.
4.24      Institutional Development of DGLC.  A new organization structure for
DGLC was adopted on flay 31, 1989 the implementation of which will need to take
into account: (i) the reorganization, in late 1988, of MOC's regional
offices; and (ii) the further decentralization of road traffic and transport
functions to Level I and II regional governments. DGLC needs advisory ser-
vices to assist with the implementation process; the would cover, inter alia,
the following: (a) the development of detailed task descriptions for posi-
tions down to the Echelon IV level; (b) the development of operating and pro-
cedural guidelines, including DGLC's relationship with MOC regional offices
and regional government road traffic and transport units; (c) the preparation
of technical guidelines for regional government road traffic and transport
units; (d) the preparation of a program for the upgrading of DGLC's management
and technical information systems; and (e) the preparation of a preliminary
program for staff development and training for DGLC and the land transport
units of MOC regional offices. This will require some 56 staff-months of for-
eign and 59 staff-months of local expert assistance.
4.25      Vehicle Weight and Dimension Regulation and Enforcement.  GOI plans
to (i) revise existing vehicle weight and dimension limits in order to permit
and promote increased road transport efficiency; and (ii) improve enforcement
effectiveness so as to lower the incidence of vehicle overloading and hence
reduce road pavement damage. Advisory services to DGLC will provide assis-
tance with, inter alia: (a) the finalization of new vehicle weight and dimen-
sion limits and, linked to this, the development of proposals for the
classification and 'plating' of vehicles, and for the classificaticn and
signing of roaas according to their carrying capacity; (b) the preparation of
a detailed action program for implementing the new limits and associated
plating of vehicles and signing of roads; (c) the determination of priorities
for the upgrading of key road links to carry larger/heavier vehicles (to be
undertaken jointly with DGH); (d) the design, conduct and evaluation of pilot
schemes for improving the effectiveness of vehicle weight and dimension limit
enforcement; (e) the design and imp'lementation of arrangements for monitoring
the impacts of changes in limits; and (f) the design and conduct of an aware-
ness campaign to inform commercial vehicle operators of the changes and their
implications. This will require some 40 staff-months of foreign and 42 staff-
months of local expert assistance.
4.26      Feasibility Studies of Toll Road Proposals.   A broad strategy for
toll road development is expected to result from studies now planned under
ongoing projects. As a follow-up and in order to provide a more specific
assessment of options, the feasibility study of priority proposals should be
carried out (or updated when already done). For this purpose, the project
will provide technical assistance to Jasa Marga for a total of 60 staff-



- 33 -
months, 35 staff-months of foreign and 25 staff-months of local consultants'
services.
Trainin8
4.27      In addition to the formal and on-the-job training conducted under
the various technical assistance services described above, DGH has prepared an
outline of a training program that includes training by their training div-
ision (DIKLAT), graduate training in liaison with Institute of Technology
Bandung (ITB) and overseas training for masters' degrees. MOC has alsa indi-
cated the need to initiate the training cf transport operators. The training
component of the project is summarized below. The substance of the terms of
reference was agreed with GOI during negotiations. Related documents are
available in the Project File.
4.28      DIKLAT Training.  The program focuses on the most immediate training
needs in DGH and the DBMs (para. 2.37) for improving the quality of operations
through better project management and supervision and intends to train a total
of 2,500 staff. Training will be carried out in MPW's regional training cen-
ters and coordinated by the Ministry's Center for Training (PUSDIKLAT). The
program will supplement and complement the Bank's MPW Institutional Develop-
ment and Training Project and training programs financed by other donors. The
program will require assistance to the DIKLAT for the setting up of the
detailed program, preparation of course material and for conducting courses.
The project will therefore provide for a total of about 170 staff-months, 70
staff-months of foreign and 100 staff-months of local training experts.
4.29      Training for Masters' Degree in Highway Engineering.  Under two
previous highway projects and in liaison with the Bandung Institute of
Technology (ITB), two-year master's degree programs in development planning
and economics and in highway and traffic engineering were started in 1982 with
most lecturers provided through foreign universities. The planning and econo-
mics program has been fully absorbed into ITB's regular course program and the
engineering program will soon be absorbed except for lacking capabilities for
certain specialized topics and for thesis work which are being strengthened in
liaison with the Institute of Road Engineering (IRE). The project will,
therefore, provide for a three-year extension of the engineering program
including 79 staff-months of foreign and 100 staff-months of local lecturers'
services. Furthermore, starting in the fall of 1990 the program will be split
such that about half of the second-year students (a total of some 15 students)
will carry on and complete their studies at selected universities overseas
(para. 4.30).
4.30      Overseas Training:  Indonesian universities are now capable of
under-graduate training in most fields related to transport engineering and
economics, while post-graduate training in these fields is limited to ITB with
some 20 to 30 students annually, which does not meet needs. Therefore, in
addition to overseas post-graduate training of some 15 second-year ITB
engineering students (para. 4.29), the project will provide for full post-
graduate training of some 20 offlcials of DGH and DBMs and some ten officials
of DGLC at selected overseas universities.



- 34 -
4.31      Road TrarsPort Operator Training (DGLC).  The road transport
operator training services will assist in: (a) the development of appropriate
course curricula and delivery arrangements for the training of management and
operational personnel; (b) the identification/selection and training of future
Indonesian instructors; and (c) the conduct and evaluation of a pilot program
of courses in Java and selected provinces elsewhere. The courses will be
targeted mainly at senior/middle level staff of companies operating
large/medium size fleets of trucks or buses. Particular attention will be
given to developing institutional arrangements, preferably involving the pri-
vate sector and/or the universities, which will ensure that curricula remain
responsiva to needs and which will eliminate the need for continuing govern-
ment financial involvement. This will require some 65 staff-months of foreign
and 55 staff-months of local expert assistance.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.32      Cost estimates represent base costs as of mid 1989.  The direct and
indirect foreign exchange component (excluding taxes) for civil works is
estimated at about 56X on the assumption that local contractors will carry out
all maintenance works and some 701 of other roadworks, as has been the case
lately. For consultancy services it is estimated at 35X for supervision,
engineering and relatively simple studies on one hand and at 80Z for technical
assistance and complex studies on the other hand. Costs have been derived
from completed and ongoing contracts for civil works and consultancies. Price
contingencies have been estimated based on the following rates of inflation:
for local costs 8X for 1989. 7? for 1990 and 5? thereafter; for foreign costs
7.2Z for 1989-90 and 4.4Z thereafter.
4.33      The Bank loan of US$350.0 million will finance 15.9Z (excluding
taxes and duties) of the total cost of US$2,415 million of DGH's expenditure
plan for national and provincial roads for the three fiscal years of 1989/90-
1991/92 shown in para. 3.10.  The first table below summarizes the cost (net
of taxes) of the various components of the plan to which the Bank loan would
be applied (details in Table 4.4) and the second table summarizes the same
cost by type of expenditure (details in Table 4.5). The allocation shown is
tentative and funds could be transferred between categories if year-to-year
needs change.



- 35 -
Cost in US$                z
Components                               Local    Foreign    Total      foreign
Road and Bridge Improvement
and Maintenance                        221.6       265.7    487.3        55
Road Traffic Safety                        5.5         9.3     14.8         63
Technical Assistance                       3.2        14.4     17.6        82
Training                                   0.8         5.3      6.1        87
Price Contingencies                       24.5        29.7     54.2        55
TOTAL                               255.6      324.4    580.0         56
Cost in US$
Type of Expenditure                      Local    Foreign    Total         X
foreign
Civil works                              210.5       263.6    474.1        56
Equipment procurement                      0.2         3.8      4.0         95
Consultancy services                      20.4        25.3     45.7         55
Overseas training                          -           2.0      2.0       100
Price contingencies                       24.5        29.7     54.2        55
Total                               255.6      324.4    580.0         56
The loan will finance 602 of the total cost of these components (1002 of the
total foreign cost and 102 of the total local cost). The overall financing of
the expenditure plan is shown in para. 3.12.
E. Implementation of Bank Financed Subprojects
4.34      As for previous highway projects, the Ministry of Public Works will
be responsible for implementing most of the project components through DGH's
and IRE's permanent organizations, the DBMs and Jasa Marga with the assistance
of a project liaison unit which also coordinates progress monitoring and
reporting. In MOC, DGLC and the Bureau of Planning will be responsible for
the technical assistance and training and for the policy agenda.
4.35      The Bank loan will finance:  (a) civil works of specific agreed
subprojects; (b) procurement of equipment in accordance with lists acceptable
to the Bank; (c) technical assistance in support of civil works implementa-
tion and agreed institutional development, training and sector policy reforms;
and (d) overseas training. GOI will submit annually a list of subprojects to
be agreed with the Bank.   All subprojects of civil works for roads (except
minor work related to road safety) to be financed under the project will be
included in an annual budget for national and provincial roads reviewed and



- 36 -
found acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.16). Tn addition, civil works subpro-
jects will have a minimum economic rate of return of 15Z.
F. Procurement of Bank Financed Subprojects
4.36      Procurement of Bank financed subprojects will be carried out as
shown in the table below:
EPLocurement Method
Total
Project Element                       ICB         LCB       Other        cost
------------- us$ million -------------
Civil lforks
Road Rehabilitation/Betterment    138.5          2.7         -         141.2
(77.6)      (1.5)        -         (79.1l
Periodic Maintenance                 -         3G8.8         -         308.8
-       (173.0)        -        (173.0)
Bridge Replacement                  70.2         2.7        -           72.9
(39.3)      (1.5)       -          (40.8)
Equipment                               3.9        -           0.5         4.4
(3.9)       -          (0.5)       (4.4)
Technical Assistance and
Consultancy Services                 -           -         50.5         50.5
-          -         (50.5)      (50.5)
Overseas Training                       -          -           2.2         2.2
-          -          (2.2)       (2.2)
TOTAL                             212.6       314.2       53.2        580.0
(120.8)    (176.0)      (53.2)     (350.0)
Notes: (a) Covers only components financed by the proposed loan, based on
initial tentative allocations.
(b) Figures inc!ude contingencies and these in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by the Bank.
4.37      Except for small works (less that $0.1 million each and with an
aggregated annual value of up to $1.0 million) in isolated areas, all Bank
financed civil works for the national and provincial roads betterment and
bridge replacement programs will be carried out on the basis of ICB procedures
by firms prequalified in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Bidding documents will be standardized and satisfactory to the Bank.
4.38      Prequalified contractors will be allowed to bid on any contract or
group of contracts for the above civil works but will be eligible for awards
only up to the value of works for which they are prequalified. Invitations
for prequalification will be issued annually in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Minimum contract package for road betterment will be
$3.0 million, while for bridge replacement no more than 15Z of contract pack-



-37 -
ages will be below $0.5 million and no less than 302 will be $1.0 million and
above.
4.39      All maintenance works, and small works exempt from ICB procedures
(see para. 4.37 above), will be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank (including satisfactory prequalification procedures). Interested
foreign contractors will be allowed full participation and will not be
required to register the firm in the provinces where they want to place bids.
Contracts for periodic maintenance (and for periodic and routine maintenance
if combined in one contract) will be packaged as follows:
(a) One year contracts (1989/90 program only): maximum 152 of contracts
of Rp 0.5 billion (about US$0.3 million) value or less and a minimum
of 30% of contracts of Rp 1.5 billion (about US$1.0 million) value
and above; and
(b)  Multi-year contracts:  maximum 7% of contracts of Rp 0.5 billion
(about US$0.3 million) value or less and a minimum of 502 of con-
tracts of Rp 1.5 billion (about US$1.0 million) value and above.
4.40      All civil works of $4.0 million and above will be subject to prior
review by the Bank, the remainder would be subject to post review on a random
basis.
4.41      Equipment will be procured on the basis of ICB, except for minor
items or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount for all contracts not to exceed US$1.0 million which
may be procured on the basis of international and local shopping by obtaining
at least three quotations from foreign and/or local suppliers. Items should
be grouped to the extent possible. Contracts for procurement of equipment
over US$200,000 will be subject to prior Bank review.
4.42      The consultants will be employed in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the August 1981 guide-
lines. Overseas training will be contracted under procedures, terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Bank. Contracts will be subject to prior Bank
review.
G. Disbursements
4.43      Disbursements from the loan will be made against applications based
on contracts for agreed subprojects as follows:
(a) Civil Works: 552 of the total expenditure for selected civil works
contracts;
(b)  Equipment:  1002 of foreign expenditures for directly imported
items; or 100% of lccal expenditures (ex-factory, net of taxes) of
locally manufactured items; or 65Z of local expenditures for other
locally procured items;
(c) Consulting Services: 100X of total expenditures; and
(d)  Overseas Trainings  100% of total expenditures.



- 38 -
In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened in
Bank Indonesia tor the purposes of the project by the Ministry of Finance.
The use of the Special Account would be in accordance with prevailing GOI
procedures. The account would be maintained in US dollars and an initial
deposit of US$20.0 million would be made as about the average expenditures for
a four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account
would be made quarterly or whenever the account is drawn down to 50X of the
initial deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disbursements
is given in Table 4.6. The schedule differs substantially from the disburse-
ment profile of standard highway projects (which require some seven years for
completion), mainly because the project is limited to a time-slice for expen-
ditures of three consecutive annual road programs of the national and provin-
cial road network. Disbursements are expected to be completed in about three
and one-half years. The closing date of the loan will be June 30, 1993.
4.44      Disbursements for item (a) for contracts of over US$4.0 million and
for items (b) for contracts over US$200,000, (c) and td) would be made against
full documentation of expenditure, while disbursements for all other items
would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Withdrawal
applications for items (b), (c) and td) would be aggregated to conform to the
following minimum thresholds; reimbursement--US$100,000 equivalent; direct
payment--US$50,000 equivalent In foreign currency and US$100,000 equivalent in
local currency; letter of credit--US$50,000 equivalent.
4.45      Furthermore, at negotiations an agreement was reached with GOI that
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of subprojects contractedt ti) after
March 31, 1990 but before April 1, 1991, on account of payments made for
expenditures until the work program and budget for FY1990t91 for interurban
national and provincial roads have been prepared in accordance with economic
and technical criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank is satisfied
with the progress made in the implementation of the work program and budget
for FY1989190; and (ii) after March 31, 1991, on account of payments made for
expenditures until the work program and budget for interurban national and
provincial roads for FY1991/92 have been prepared in accordance with economic
and technical criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank is satisfied
with the progress made in the implementaion of the work program and budget for
Fyi990o91.
H. Retroactive Financing
4.46      Retroactive financing for civil works and consulting services, not
to exceed US$35.0 million, would be provided under the proposed project for
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1989 and before the date of the loan
agreement.
I. Monitorins and Auditing
4.47      Most contract administration under the proposed loan would be the
responsibility of DGH and the DBMs with a few contracts being the responsibil-
ity of IRE, Jasa Marga and MOC. These agencies would keep records of all pro-
curement documents, (including bids and proposals and their evaluation and
contract awards) and official decisions on each agreed subproject showing
accumulated expenditures, monthly payments and other administrative data and



- 39 -
would prepare quarterly reports with this information. The Bank would reserve
the right to inspect and review the documentation maintained on individual
contracts by the agencies and be sent copies of documents on request.
4.48      The annual consultations on the highway program and budget and on
the policy action plan would provide the major opportunity for reviewing pro-
gress of the 1989/90 - 1991192 programs for national and provincial roads and
the implementation of the proposed project. Monitoring and supervision of the
project will focus on the followingt
(a)  The evolution and subsequent confirmation of the annual programs and
their financial and physical targets for the road development and
maintenance programs, against which progress will be measured;
(b)  The nrogress made in pursuing the institutional and sectoral policy
objectives of the project as measured against key steps in the
agreed Action Plan of the Policy Statement; and
(c) The progress of implementation of Bank-financed subprojects.
The format and frequency of reporting were agreed at negotiations. Also,
during negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that:
(a) The implementation agencies would keep separate accounts for the
proposed project;
(b) The project accounts, including documentation for statement of
expenditures (SOEs), would be audited annually by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank; and
*c) The detailed audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, the
implementing agencies will prepare and furnish to the Bank,within
nine months after completion of the project, a completion report on
the execution and initial operation of the project.
J. Proiect Environmental Impact
4.49      The road works in the three-year plan are not expected to have any
adverse environmental effects. Works are mostly improvements of roads and
bridges, including improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthen-
ing of shoulders and pavements, overlays on old pavements, and bituminous
surfacings on gravel roads, all of which will improve conditions along the
road through reducing dust and noise and erosion because of flooding. As most
works will be carried out on existing alignments, requirements for additional
land are minimal.



- 40 -
5. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. General
5.1       Benefits.  The measures which GOI intends to implement in the next
few years to improve road transport policies and strengthen sector institu-
tions, as well as the major expenditures which are planned on national and
provincial roads, will have considerable benefits. Those derived from policy
and institutional measures are difficult to quantify, however. Among the most
important ones in the medium- to long-term will be the introduction of more
efficient types of vehicles (larger multi-axled trucks especially) and the
increase in road safety. Also important will be GOI9s increasing capability
to develop and enforce traffic and road transport regulations which are
appropriate to a rapidly changing transport market and to prepare and imple-
ment economically, technically, and environmentally sound projects which are
well adapted to the very diversified circumstances in which they are carried
out and which optimize the use of resources. Through traffic and accident
surveys and specific transport cost analyses, it will be possible to evaluate
some of these benefits in the future. Gains are likely to be considerable
given the magnitude of national resources used in road transport. As
estimated in 1988, the total economic cost of inter-urban road transport
(national and provincial roads only) would be in the US$4 to US$5 billion
range equivalent to 5.5% to 7.OZ of GDP. The direct benefits of the physical
investments, vehicle operating costs savings, are in general much easier to
quantify than the benefits of policy and institutional changes. They are the
basis upon which GOI expenditure plan and 1989/90 budget are prepared.
Details on, and evaluation of, methodologies used are presented in paras. 5.3
to 5.8 below.
5.2       Beneficiaries.  The benefits of GOI's policy measures and road
expenditures will accrue to a large and widespread number of beneficiaries.
Lower road transport costs and time savings will benefit car and bus users as
well as truckers and bus operators. Private users such as individual car
drivers, bus passengers and private firms using transport on their own account
will capture benefits directly. In addition, the benefits accruing to
Indonesia's trucking and inter-urban bus industries, which are competitive,
will be passed on to producers and to consumers through lower prices of goods
and services.
B. Evaluation of Methodologies Used for Preparing the
Expenditure Plan and the Budget
5.3       The methodologies with which GOI has prepared its three year
expenditure plan and 1989/90 budget have been reviewed by the appraisal
mission. Although they still require improvements, they were found basically
sound because they are based on a satisfactory economic and technical
rationale and attempt correctly to optimize the use of resources allocated to
national and provincial roads and bridges. These methodologies are described
below for the two main categories of expenditures, road maintenance and
betterment and bridge replacement, which, with cne cost of design and super-
vision, account for about 87.5Z of total planned expenditures. As was agreed
at negotiations, future updates of the expenditure plan and budgets for
1990/91 and 1991/92 would use the same methodologies or refined versions.
I



- 41 -
Road Maintenance and Betterment Works
5.4       The road maintenance and betterment components of GOI's expenditure
plan and 1989190 budget have been prepared on the basis of a sophisticated
road management system (RMS) which has been developed over the last few years
for the about 50,000 km of rational and provincial roads and, although not
fully completed, now shows satisfactory results. The mairn objective of this
computer assisted system was to bring uniform and rational methods in the
planning and budgeting process while taking full account of the extreme diver-
sity of conditions under which roads are built and maintained in Indonesia.
When used for planning, programming and budgeting, the RMS comprises three
main phases, (i) the selection of optimum treatments for standard links repre-
sentative of the network; (ii) the preparation of an indicative multi-year
expenditure plan which takes account of financing conatraints; and (iii) the
preparation of a preliminary design and cost estimate for each subproject on
the basis of which final decisions on the annual detailed work program and
budget are taken.
5.5       Selection of optimum treatments.  For the paved network, selection
is mainly based on the World Bank's Highway Design Model (HDM). Given very
detailed information concerning road conditions, traffic and each alternative
treatment envisaged, this model simulates road deterioration, calculates total
vehicle operating costs over time and provides the net present value and the
economic internal rate of return of each treatment. In its present form,
DGH's system selects the treatment which iiaximizes net present value for a 15%
discount rate, assumed to be the opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia.
The more than 2,500 segments which comprise the road network are grouped in
120 categories (or 'standards segments") in accordance with geographic and
climatic conditions, structural characteristics, surface quality and traffic
(their description is in Table 5.1).  For each paved standard segment which
does not require full rehabilitation (those with a roughness below 12 IRI),
seven alternative treatments are compared.  Optimum treatments resulting from
this analysis are described in Table 5.2.  For paved standard segments which
require full rehabilitation and for unpaved segments, the system has its own
methodology which is not based on the HDM.  When full rehabilitation is
needed, the system provides directly a specific treatment which depends on the
traffic level and is based on engineering judgment (see also Table 5.2,.  For
unpaved segments, the system only considers the paving option which it selects
if a simple economic criteria based on traffic is met. In both cases, when
the proposed treatment is not economically justified, the system selects a
minimum service treatment defined on engineering grounds, depending on road
condition and traffic. For paved roads with narrow carriageway, the system
also has the capability to determine whether or not it is justified to widen
the pavement.
5.6       Preparation of Expenditure Plan.  In its second phase, the system
prepares a multi-year expenditure plan by allocating available funds each
year, first for activities considered essential such as routine maintenance,
minimum service treatments, and ongoing subprojects, and second for the
optimum treatments established in the previous phase. If funds are con-
strained and optimum treatments cannot be implemented on all segments in a
specific year, works are deferred one or possibly several years on the basis
of an incremental economic rate of return (equivalent to a first year rate of



- 42 -
return) with the lowest priority subprojects deferred first. In this case, an
interim 'holding, treatment is applied to the segment to ensure minimum
serviceability. Several adjustments are also made to this general process to
take account of practical constraints, one being, fcr example, that large
subprojects would necessarily be implemented over a period longer than one
year. The result is a multi-year expenditure plan which is close to proposing
the best possible use of available resources, although it is not exactly
optimum because the system defers works entirely on lesser priority segments
in case of funding constraints rather than propose second or third best treat-
ments on those and other segments (this last possibility would maximize the
total plan's net present value, but requires a much more complex process which
DGH could not probably handle now). The system can produce a forecast of the
condition of the network by the end of each year and thus show how well GOI's
specific medium- to long-term objectives of network quality would be met. If
objectives were not met with the planned level of expenditures, the alterna-
tive would be for GOI to increase its funding for road projects. In any case,
the system would ensure that only new subprojects with a positive net present
value (i.e., for which the ERR is above 15X) would be identified. Instead, if
GOI's resources became more constrained, the system would show how to cut road
expenditures while minimizing the impact on road quality.
5.7       Pr'paration of Work Program and Budget.  In its third phase, the
system prepa ,s preliminary designs and cost estimates for each new sub-
project 8, it luded in the first year of the expenditure plan. For this
purpose, more detailed technical data on road condition is first collected.
When the design and cost estimates are done, subprojects should be re-
evaluated from the economic standpoint and priorities reassessed (this part of
the RMS will be completed in the coming months). Final decision on whether
the subprojects are included in the annual work program depends on the final
amount allocated to the road sector in the national and provincial budgets and
the subprojects' place on the priority list. At the end of the budget
process, nonmechanistic factors such as the implemantation of special local or
regional development objectives are taken into account and this may lead to
some reordering of priorities. As has been explained in para. 3.16, however,
GOI has confirmed at negotiations its commitment that it would give priority
to maintenance activities and would not allocate in its actual budget more
than 20? of non-maintenance funds for subprojects with an ERR below 15?. GOI
is also committed to use the output of the RMS to its fullest possible extent
in deciding on its annual budgets, and this has been done in the preparation
of the 1989190 budget.
5.8       DGH's RMS is a remarkable tool which incorporates the results of up
to date international research in the area of road planning and design as well
as the experience gained on road management systems in Indonesia in the past
years. As experience continues, its performance should be assessed and it
should be improved continuously. Currently three main areas deserve atten-
tion. First is data collection, the quality of which has not been sufficient
in the recent past although it determines the soundness of the entire output.
To resolve this problem, DGH is now improving collection procedures and
putting in place a data audit process. Second are the basic relationships
8/   A subproject includes works on several road segments of the same area in
general. The packaging is designed to ensure adequate contract size.



- 43 -
(for estimating vehicle operating costs or road deterioration for example)
which need to be better adjusted to the specific circumstances of Indonesia.
Adequate research should be carried out for this purpose. Third is DBM
staffs' inadequate understanding of how the system works and how it helps them
mximize the use of their limited resources. To address this issue, DGH is
now starting to systematically organize staff training and support. In gen-
eral DGH is committed under the Action Plan to continue improving the RMS and
its use, and assistance for this purpose is included in the proposed project.
5.9       As shown above, the methodclogies used to select optimum treatments
are such that all marginal works accepted by the RMS have a minimum economic
rate of return of 15Z. Therefore, the economic internal rate of return for
the sum of all works included in each subproject vill be, in most cases, much
higher than 15S.
Bridge Replacement Works
5.10      DGH's 3-year expenditure plan for bridge replacement assumes that
during this period approximately half of Repelita V's target will be achieved.
The target is to replace all bridges on national and provincial roads which,
in a recent update of the bridge inventory and condition assessment, were
found to have exceeded their service life and be in danger of collapsing.
Given resource constraints, DGH's objectives are reasonable. Out of the about
340,000 m of bridges in the road network, about 51,000 m (about 15X) would be
replaced during Repelita V and 24,000 m (about 7,) during the first three
years. In fact, under bilateral aid, DGH has already secured financing for
more than sufficient bridge superstructure elements to fulfill its three-year
plan.
5.11      Bridge replacement works for 1989/90 have been programmed in accor-
dance with a screening methodology based on economic criteria (net present
value per meter of bridge at a 15? discount rate), standardized inputs (mainly
for traffic composition, unit construction costs &nd diversion distance in
case of bridge collapse), and actual bridge length and traffic data. Although
the methodology is relatively crude, it is acceptable in a situation (like in
Indonesia) where a large number of relatively small bridges need to be
replaced (with a replacement cost in many cases below US$500,000) and there is
a limited capability to carry out a detailed feasibility study for each propo-
sal.   The methodology excludes bridge replacement proposals which do not have
a 152 minimum ERR but, in many instances, the actual ERR is much higher.
5.12      With Australian aid, DGH has recently started an extensive exercise
to put in place a refined bridge management system on national and provincial
roads, the equivalent for bridges of its RMS. This exercise is expected to be
completed in September 1992 and, among other goals, will considerably improve
DGH's procedures and capabilities for assessing bridge condition and optimize
work programs.
C. Risks
5.13      There are certain risks that GOI's comprehensive strategy of
improving transport policies, strengthening institutions and maintaining and
improving infrastructure, which the proposed Bank Loan would support, may not



- 44 -
proceed as expected. Firstly, the implementation of policy reforms and the
strengthening of institutions may be delayed for reasons such as political
sensitivity, bureaucratic resistance and a slackening in the pace of prepara-
tion for future actions. The risks of such occurrence are limited however
because the Action Plan has been formulated through an intensive dialogue
between all parties involved. The actions to be taken are well defined and
have been carefully staged; many are already well prepared andlor included in
reforms which are underway. Secondly, the civil works program may not proceed
as scheduled because of lack of financing or insufficient implementation capa-
bility. These risks have been addressed during project formulation. The
three year expenditure program is based essentiaLly on firm ind-.cations of
foreign funding and a moderate growth of local funding, well below that which
GOI is planning during its Economic Development Plan, Repelita V. DGH and the
provincial DBMs have also shown in recent years that their implementation
capacity was increasing rapidly. They have performed satisfactorily under the
previous Bank-financed projects.  DGH has strengthened its control and super-
vision functions and should be able to perform well in a more decentralized
environment if its technical authority over the DBMs remains strong. The Bank
loan will also finance a relatively large program of training and of technical
support to central and provincial staff which will help meet implementation
targets. For both the policy and institutional improvements and the civil
works program, the annual Implementation Reviews are expected to be a useful
tool to identify and address issues systematically and mobilize support for an
early resolution. The annual reviews of the rolled-over expenditure plan and
the new budget will also ensure that the civil works program supported by the
Bank is adjusted whenever necessary with reference to the most current needs
and takes implementation constraints fully into account.



- 45 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOIMMNDATIONS
6.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOls
(a)  (i) On the Policy Statement and Action Plan; and (ii) that any
material changes to the Action Plan would be made in consultation
with the Bank (para. 3.1).
(b)  On annual implementation reviews of the Action Plan and of perfo-m-
ance under the 1989/90, 1990/91 and 1991/92 work programs and bud-
gets no later than March 31, 1990, 1991 and 1992 (para. 3.1);
(c)  that it would (i) starting in its fiscal year 1989/90, prepare
annually a draft rolled-over expenditure plan for the following
three fiscal years for all inter-urban national and provincial roads
on the basis of a reasonable forecast of available local and foreign
furds and in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank;
and (ii) provide the Bank with such draft no later than December 1,
1989 and 1990, discuss it with the Bank, and, soon thereafter, issue
it, taking the Bank's comments into account (para. 3.14);
(d!  that (i) its 1990/91 and 1991/92 work programs and budgets would
satisfy economic and technical criteria acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) it would provide the Bank with a draft work program and budget
for its review and comments no later than February 28 of 1990 and
1991 (paras. 3.16);
(e)  that, before authorizing the implementatioi of any toll road
project, it would carry out, or cause to be carried out, a feasi-
bility study based on generally recognized sound economic and
environmental methodologies and give the Bank an opportunity to
comment on the results of the study (para. 3.18);
(f)  on a first list of equipment to be financed under the loan (paras.
4.21 and 4.22);
(g)  on terms of reference for consultancy services (paras. 4.8, 4.9,
4.13, 4.14 and 4.27);
(h)  that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of subprojects
contractedt (i) after March 31, 1990 but before April 1, 1991, on
account of payments made for expenditures until the work program and
budget fir FY1990/91 for interurban national and provincial roads
have been prepared in accordance with economic and technical cri-
teria satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank is satisfied with the
progress made in the implementation of the work program and budget
for FY1989/90; and (ii) after March 31, 1991, on account of payments
made for expenditures until the work program and budget for inter-
urban national and provincial roads for FY91/92 have been prepared
in accordance with economic and technical criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, and the Bank is satisfied with the progress made in the
implementation of the work program and budget for FY1990/91 (para.
4.45); and
(i)  procurement procedures (paras. 4.36 - 4.42).



_ 46 -
6 2       on the basis th.e above agreements, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$350.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20
ysurs, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



- 47 -                     Aianex 1
Page 1 of 16
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
I
I
I
I
I                 STATEMNT OF POLICIES OW ROXD INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ROAD TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT
October 10, 1989



- 48 -                        Annex 1
Page 2 of 16
Government of the Republic of Indonesia
POLICIES ON ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ROAD TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT
1.  INTRODUCTION
Transport plays a crucial role in Indonesia's national
development by supporting and promoting the realisation of
the Development Trilogy (Trilogi Pembangunan) and Archipe-
lagic Principle (Wawasan Nusantara), two concepts which
together embody the goals of rapid and sustainable
economic growth, social equity, and national economic
integration, unity and stability. In addition to serving
the evolving needs of other sectors of the economy, devel-
opment of the transport system supports the opening up of
remote areas, provides access to otherwise isolated
communities and, more generally, permits increased per-
sonal mobility. While all modes contribute to the proper
functioning of the country's transport system, road
occupies a particularly important position as is reflected
by its dominant share of total transport activity and
spending.
The Government's successive five-year plans have stressed
that transport services should be capable of satisfying
demand in an efficient, safe, fast, reliable, orderly a-
affordable manner and have allocated the large public
expenditures needed for the pursuit of these goals. The
first four plans placed heavy emphasis on the rehabilita-
tion and expansion of transport infrastructure and fleets,
with increased attention being directed to their
maintenance during the latter part of REPELITA IV. The
transport component ox: REPELITA V provides for the con-
tinuation of these programs but accords highest priority
to the refinement and better integration policies and the
optimisation of public sector investment and operational
planning with the goal of improving efficiency and thereby
reducing overall transport system costs. With major
changes already implemented in the maritime transport sub-
sector, attention in the coming years will be concentrated
increasingly on land transport and, in particular, roads
and road traffic and transport.
This document elaborates the key policies which will shape
the development of the road system and road traffic and
transport during the REPELITA V period and beyond. It
focuses especially on inter-urban (national and provin-
cial) roads and their usage and also references, where
applicable, complementary policies relating to other
modes. The Government's program for implementing these
policies up until mid-1992 is set out in a separate docu-
ment.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 16
2. BACKGROUUD
Considerable progress and achievements have been recorded
in the land transport subsector during the last 20 years.
Yet for various interrelated reasons the costs of road
transportation remain significantly higher than they need
be. Vehicle operating costs are raised by the poor stan-
dard and condition of much of the road network, while com-
paratively few arterial links have been designed and
constructed to the structural and geometric standards
needed to permit the use of the most efficient multi-axled
truck-trailer combinations. Overly restrictive and
unevenly applied road traffic and transport regulations
have militated against the introduction of new technol-
ogies; for example, the present vehicle height limit means
that standard containers may only be transported on public
roads by special dispensation. In some instances, these
regulations have also served to protect inefficient and
unresponsive public transport operators from healthy
competition.
The present structure and level of road user taxes also
serves to promote inefficiency. While total receipts from
road users are now at a level comparable with total public
spending on the road network, operators of large trucks
are required to pay little if any of the infrastructure
costs attributable to them. Consequently the pattern of
demand between modes tends to be distorted, with road
carrying some traffics for which other modes - such as
rail - are inherently better suited. Equally importantly,
the structure of road user taxes provides no incentive for
truck operators to invest in the types of multi-axled
vehicles which reduce road pavement damage.
Major advances have been made in the planning, program-
ming, budgeting and execution of works on the national and
provincial road networks during the 1980s. In particular,
the increased level of expenditures now being allocated to
road maintenance is better matched to needs while the
switch to contract maintenance has resulted in the avail-
able resources being used more effectively. Further work
is still needed to refine and consolidate the use of these
new systems and procedures, however, and to supplement
them with improved methods for planning major new invest-
ment projects - particularly in densely trafficked corri-
dors - and for deciding between alternative road pavement
and bridge materials and technologies.
While the development and maintenance of the road network
is handled mainly by the public sector, most road trans-
port services are provided by the private sector. In the
more developed regions, operators of road freight
transport services and inter-urban passenger transport
services are reasonably efficient, competitive, and
responsive to their users' requirements. The larger firms



_   -                     Annex 1
Page 4 of 16
tend to be financially sound and competent in managing
their businesses and maintaining and operatinq their
vehicles. Many smaller operators, however, which lack the
skills and other resources needed to compete successfully
with their more efficient counterparts, neglect vehicle
maintenance or resort to heavy overloading in their
struggle to stay in business.
High road traffic accident rates, which impose high human
and material costs, are attributable in large measure to
inadequacies in safety-related regulations and their lax
administration and enforcement.  Poor driver behaviour and
inadequately equipped and maintained vehicles are visible
symptoms of these problems, with poor vehicle maintenance
also contributing significantly to atmospheric pollution
in the major cities.  Other important causes of road acci-
dents include poor road conditions and markings, the mix-
ing of fast and slow moving vehicles in the traffic
stream, and vehicle overloading.  Ineffective enforcement
of vehicle loading regulations has also resulted in
excessive damage to road pavements, hence adding to main-
tenance costs and, in the interim, raising vebicle operat-
ing costs.
3. POLICY STATEMENT
The Government is committed to the adoption of policies
which will permit and promote the development of a trans-
port system capable of responding quickly and efficiently
to the nation's growing and increasingly sophisticated
transport needs. In the land transport subsector, the
basic objective is to move towards situation characterised
by: (a) a neutral and well administered regulatory regime
under which operators will be able - subject to compliance
with appropriate safety and environmental standards - to
tailor their facilities and services to users' require-
ments without the distortions imposed by subsidies and
unnecessary quantitative restrictions on entry, routes,
fleet sizes, and service frequencies; and (b) effective
and efficient programs of public spending on infrastruc-
ture and services in those fields which properly remain
within the public domain.
In order to achieve these goals - and thereby contribute
significantly to the reduction of overall transport system
costs - the Government has formulated a carefully con-
ceived and integrated set of policies covering seven key
areas. The three fundamental policies concern
improvements to the basic framework and mechanisms through
which the Government plans, administers, participates in
and influences the development and use of the road system.
They involve:



- 51 -               Annex 1
Page 5 of 16
(a) finalising and implementing a modern and coherent
legal and regulatory framework for road traffic and
transport in place of the outdated and fragmented body
of regulations which now applies;
(b) strengthening the capabilities and improving the effi-
ciency and effectiveness of the central and regional
government departments and agencies responsible for
the development and maintenance of the road network
and for the implementation and enforcement of road
traffic and transport regulations;
(c) improving coordination and integration of transport
sector policy formulation and planning, particularly
in respect of competing land transport modes.
The other four policies relate to specific areas where
improvements in current arrangements and practices are
expected to yield major increases in efficiency and/or
reductions in economic and social costs. They involve:
(a) continuing to refine and consolidate the implementa-
tion of recently developed systems and procedures for
the planning, programming and budgeting of road
expenditures and the execution and supervision of road
works;
(b) revising progressively the structure and level of road
user taxes;
(c) amending and simplifying vehicle weight and dimensions
limits and the road load-bearing classification; and
(d) improving road traffic safety.
Policy 1: Legal and Regulatory Reform
A comprehensive and integrated body of laws and regula-
tions, covering Road Vehicles, Road Traffic and Road
Transport, will be introduced in place of the outdated and
fragmented regulations which now apply. The aims and
principles will be to:
(a) create a sound and coherent legal and regulatory basis
for administering and controlling the use of the
public road network;
(b) delineate clearly and appropriately, in accordance
with the Government's policies on decentralisation,
the roles and functions of the central and regional
government agencies involved in these matters;
(c) incorporate into the regulatory framework such provi-
sions - concerning vehicles, their operation, and the
provision of public transport services - as are needed
to preserve public infrastructure, ensure adequate
standards of safety, safeguard users' interests and
protect the environment and the community in general;



-52-                   Annex 1
Page 6 of 16
(d) eliminate or relax controls which protect inefficient
and unresponsive roal transport operators or promote
inefficient operations, and thereby create an environ-
ment conducive to the development of an efficient and
professional road transport industry.
Policy 2: Institutional Development and Coordination
The execution of government functions will be made more
efficient and effective. This will involve:
(a) creating a competent, professional and streamlined
administration within which each agency, whether at
the centril or regional level, has clearly defined
duties, is appropriately organised to perform them, is
accountable for its performance and is equipped with
appropriate management information systems and tech-
niques;
(b) ensuring more effective coordination between the vari-
olis institutions involved in road infrastructure and
road traffic and transport matters.
The structure of institutions, whether at central or
regional levels, will be made compatible with a rational
and streamlined division of responsibilities. Neasures
will be taken to refine job descriptions, to provide
appropriate job-oriented training, to improve manpower
planning, to introduce and implement better information
systems and management methods, and to strengthen channels
for coordination.
Policy 3: Integration of Transport sector Policy Formula-
tion and Planning
The formulation and execution of regulatory, pricing,
investment and operational policies for the respective
transport modes will be more closely integrated. Public
sector investment planning will be carried out using sound
economic criteria and with improved coordination between
the relevant government agencies, particularly for key
corridors in which alternative modes can or could compete.
Where appropriate, private-sector participation in the
provision of transport services and facilities will be
facilitated. The aims of these improvements will be to:
(a) ensure that optimal use is made of existing transport
infrastructure and facilities before undertaking major
new investments;
(b) ensure that each mode is allowed to play its proper
role within the transport system as a whole, with
account taken of its comparative economic advantages;



_ 53 -                 Annex 1
Page 7 of 16
(c) ensure that investments in new infrastructure and
facilities represent the most efficient means of pro-
viding needed additional capacity when viewed in the
context of the transport system as a whole;
(d) promote and facilitate the development of intermo-
dal/multimodal door-to-door transport operations and
the introduction of improved cargo handling and
transhipment arrangements.
Policy 4: Planning, Programing and Execution of Road
Works
Resources for road maintenance and development will be
allocated so as to maximise their overall economic and
social benefits and minimise environmental damage. In
particular:
(a) adequate resources will be allocated for the routine
and periodic mapitenance of the existing road network,
including newly constructed and upgraded links;
(b) decisions concerning investments in additional road
capacity in he&vily trafficked corridors will be based
on a rigourous economic and environmental appraisal of
possible alternative options;
(c) the geometry and pavements of key road links will be
upgraded when economically appropriate so as to permit
them to carry more economical multi-axle vehicles;
(d) works will be carried out in compliance with specifi-
cations, with management, administrative and supervis-
ory arrangements appropriate to the circumstances.
The efficiency and effectiveness of expenditure on road
infrastructure by all levels of government will be
improved by the continuing development of planning, pro-
gramming and budgeting methods (including methods for
evaluating the environmental impact of major projects), by
the further refinement of technical standards and arrange-
ments for the execution of road works, and by the
strengthening of procedures for supervision and quality
control.
Policy 5: Road User Taxation
The Government will progressively implement an integrated
and soundly based "user pays" approach to road user tax-
ation, with particular attention being given to the pric-
ing and taxation of petroleum fuels and to the structure
and rates of vehicle registration charges. This will be
designed to:



- 5s4 -                Annex 1
Page 8 of 16
(a) ensure that road user tax payments by the operators of
different categories of vehicle at least cover the
road infrastructure costs which they respectively
impose;
(b) eliminate subsidies or cross-subsidies, particularly
to users of heavy commercial vehicles, which may dis-
tort patterns of demand for road and competing trans-
port modes;
(c) induce road users to make vehicle investment and oper-
ating decisions which are economically optimal;
(d) mobilise increased resources for financing the main-
tenance and development of the road network.
Policy 6: Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Limits
Existing weight and dimension limits for road vehicles
will be revised and better and more closely integrated
arrangements introduced for vehicle "plWting" and for road
load-bearing classification and signing. These changes
will be designed to:
(a) permit the operation of more economical vehicle types,
particularly larger multi-axle trucks, on key trunk
routes with suitably constructed pavements and
geometry;
(b) establish appropriate vehicle weight and dimension
limits for other lower-standard roads so as to contain
damage to pavements, improve safety and protect the
interests of adjacent communities;
(c) facilitate improved compliance with, and more effec-
tive enforcement of, applicable limits.
Policy 7: Traffic Safety
The Government will prepare and implement an integrated
program of measures designed to bring about a rapid and
significant reduction in accident rates. Particular
attention will be given to securing the active participa-
tion of, and improved coordination between, all relevant
government and non-government agencies, and to raising the
public's safety awareness and consciousness.



Govent of the Republic of Indouesia
POLICIES FOR ROAD INFRASTRUCll)RB AND ROAD TRAFIFC AND TRANSPORT
SHORT-TERM ACTtON PROGRAM
(Peaidto Eon-1992)
Octar 10, 989
0O
N1
0
a'



-56-                   Annex 
Page 10 of 16
49
5~ i~ 0                     j1i22lii   S E 
-                     I~~to
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



POUaES MOR ROADS AND ROAD TRAPPIC AND TRANSPORT
(Pd to Ed-1992)
Rd                                   Actin                               Apmel                                 Star           Compl-te                                 Conmeutaj
No.                                Deacrption                            Reponsble                            By End           By End                               Crow Rererdm
A.   LALAZRYEFRM
A.l    EDtblsk MOC working tenVs to rvIew ad  fine draft ww law and   MOC   lgl BDorn                                         Sep 199     Dft     ew law ad ORs         d by DOLC c     tas  qui  eview.
GRsan r d tmffic nd trmpt md key subordbuate rplations          DGLC                                                              Working team/a, to be establi  by Kqmn wi b         ple rprnstlPR
of odter unitsideputmets as ,ppropte.
A.2      Detlrae tresposibily for the Implementiti  of red tic and    MOC Lepal  ruea                                         Dec 1989     DnRaf OR jrepred by MOC and MHA rw ben              for sita
umupoit regulatla. to Tk lil regial govemumsa.                 DCILC                                                               e es   Rosd Ta    nd Trnapat La. lhis will ddis the Inuu-
MHA                                                               dG55 bss for Iblhing the  w a         ORs c radtw   and   t
(se A.3, AR), It would provide a amy sataats bads h< DinssL4
1 k [wilts, and would permit essaMp tofD lnu  U RTkU units
Things tentaln:; depends onhc prinsofdOoutev_lewlapprvL
AJ3      Feisedra of ew lw to govern oad tmfc and baIpt  maten  ad  MOC  pel BuDa                            Onping           Dec 1989     TminofeactmentldepedaPDIRp wgr   Curatyamaiysd
utdmt to DPR                                                    DOLC                                                              tat enactme  wil be _-uronlsed wih ncmemt of new taw fr othe
nuspr modes, hat submIsIo may procee Indpendently If theeapp
ikely to be delayed.
A.4      Fislisednftsand btin Qovamnent approa of new ORs on rid         MOC LepI BSoa                       Ongoing          Apr1990      Corsulan'drafts aebeg         adoWfor..vlewadc.mneutdSngSep    I
veltid  read utafi  a  rand tra t  andemcited implemeting    DWLC                                                                 1919. TheOR         _ ar imeaded to he Isue  ner de nw law (e A3) but d  s
decisesand regukadhs.                                                                                                             will be Issud mderdorh      lw Abould Isnetnam  be delayed.        -.
Certain wubodinsta deeand                        wlbel dt
dte samnet           will follw  the relka
decils have be taeL
L.  INlUINL DLO                             ADCOORD INATION
a I      Riulse new  pa oatln gute for DOLC.                             MOC Lepga Duma                                      Completed      oaognisati       n  fre.bymerthalunmode,wis                  by
leel weeIse  sKp    31989 InMay. Isueentto  wiss
appoin_mnt of staf to new    ,
.2      FPhlbe ornandon mictures for 1lan aIn 11 regiol govauet          DGLC                                                 Feb1940 I             wI bep       d by DWLC, tking       tdeevt gudn
LLAIR uin                                                       MHA                                                                 =  0esatiofu govamem    M                   mlts. These wiM be dA a
,                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to MHA for bsu aXe
a.3      Pear dailed job d ipda j.s *ad oe atin  nd jecesrau pule.    DGLC                                   Apr 1990         Dec 1990     This tak wll inclhde peparai  of guiddee Fr LLAR anff I MOC
li  for DOWLC to hplemet ne          don  uct                                                                                     Knwil  The    -          will lsno coveraInternal end e_  al  rIn
arrangemans.
.4       Pe      e    lfor the upgdig of DOLC's manageme  and            DWLC                                Jun1990          Apr1991      Thbes wil provide ford patd Inprovesn .           mtad extnio
elin~~~~icstl                                                                                                                of exbsX   "cmn R-omuWd    on p,pw
analysis  d report  will tak acn of DOL's re v            ha
agencies.
5        Prepare a fpbaa    n Qor nairng and  emar deveonmet whin        DWLC                                 an 1991         Jun 1991     To Ichude preparto of a crefWly tgeted                           d9
DOWLC.                                                         MOC DIILAT                                                         vtl alning proam  ampassg    JR nits i t  MOC 8In-
MOC Peraonnel Burea                                               Was.
0
Print Datw. October10, 1919



POICIES FOR ROADS AND ROAD TRAMFC AND TRANSPORT
Rot                                  Actin                                gnce                                 Sftar          Complet                                 Commetal
No.                                DescriptIon                           RBpnil                                y Enid          By End                               Cram Refetmee
9.6      PaRpass Sukldelimns on    x   atLonof deceotrsedrod traffic and  DGLC                               Apr 1990         Jun11        Folwn  ecmlsta (me A.2), DOIW will berepuldferestsb-
au post (Atwdra for lana toT I1 and 1 regiona govmmat ULAZR   MHA Bakogda&dn tehita satmulda. guidelines ant pondr  for toed traffic and
tL                                                                                                                                               and Tkn rtimlmsS IT and!! ULA3R  ait wHil be aepmdbl for dvrk
C I      A8prov and relase FY85W9 Rupiah bundget for Nadotia O-D Swve    Bappeoua                                             Sep 1989     Doge  ltopuI mabnmifled tomB:passe by DOLCand MOC arnueL*y.
'lout camt (NWa and no-odcosPnparat).                                                                                              Loa   ot  ooe  o imnigby Jag=EuiniBn   AinocladTA
sewiut~ lnanzd    IBRD Loon 25-IND. (Nounr Smme of
Inoweladvafedusudet iditing Is undway.)
C-2      Canmugecondluct of Noatdis O-D Surve of rond sesDGOC                                                NOV 19399Peart   worklusarsed   roiy  ilI.gwet  uesiuaea
DGH                                                                 m  n              so mntpeatbanmertystarittaLTDP43stoy7(m
Traffic Police                                                    C6).  ln              with amovys of nawc-oad mode1 e.ential.
C-3      Complee O-D database fo Sumtnaer. Jaws and BaiH (foad and non-wead DGOC                                              Fab 1990     Data to be p..aw.d.to a sagwbeaaoenbe uedby Am LTDP-.Ustdy.~
mods).                                                         DGN                                                                Anyde!7,Inswotm     "a
CA        Omnpiete conduct, analyslis sal sporstag of Nsdoo..IO-D Survey for   MOC Planning DrfAes                            Dee 1989                                                                           L
mo-fad modeLc
Cs       Complete conduce, aalysis and rorng of National O-D Survey of    DOWC                                                Nov1990
rOad 1ess                                                      DGHI
C.#      Cmahe Land Tranpast Developmesa Plan - Pha  U study.            DOLC                                Fab 1990         Aug 1991     ThIs study willmreommnd outbe~,ollanmous*doonn
cnhan proposed  Study will   meno   lpeuaimfeue
0.D data Is nearigcopeto
C.?      Prepar agoend and budget for firm (1990) annual worimbop on bmee  MOC Planning Dures                                 Jan 1990     The annua worksaops will pravhde a forumt for teeiug  fifma
greed 'rnpotpokiy formultation and planning.                                                                                      ta.dsuls  fpilnsadIse,adlstfctodau
wOacto    Psntdpant will inchue mdl-ee  tfsmterlvn
goeone  gencies together with reIesnale  -oifuspu opeat
C.U      Hold 1990 wetnsbopcan Interted ausasp  policy flonmulation, and  MOC Plaennin  Doars                                 iun 1990     ThIs tak wil clde corInatmIngpreptratimon - o(osp paps,oduc.
Planing                                                                                                                           Ingedited woritshosp-cmaliopandlpteps:nga esecotime summary of
mcommeaMm  or cousleastloo, by senio managemen  of agpnces
Pfizn Dfte: 0-1 er0, 1989                                                                                                                                                                                       P



POUCIES IFR ROG DS AND ROAD TRAFIMC AND TRANSPORT
SUCR-SR  ACnoN  'WAf
Ref                                  Aetion                             Anekns                                 Start         Compkit                                  Commentef
No.                                Description                           Responsible                         Dy End           By End                                Cro   ererenes
D.                                ING AND EXECUTION OF ROAD WORKS
D.l      Cmpletedeelopment ard bnplkematln f the         ted planing.  DGH                                   Ongoing          Dee 1990     ToInlde pep-dtionofualbandcoductdiftainin.
peogrammin  bWlgeting and desgn (PPB&D sByse Cr the amie-.
sane  d bee     t o fatblom  snd pvincial b sb.
Di  P                  est of Intial ape   c of usingtheintegrated       DGH                                 Oct 19           Mar 1990
sys&Dte  sad an salon prga  for its further imrvemen.
D3       Desig     c          b...c.  a                     imof imped p i  for tbe   DGH                    Aug 1989         Dec 1990     To be cldoy coordinad with actiit            with the iniuucd  of
n sd   i      ofbc  a p ig dat (rcad conitiotn  DULC                                                                      ew vehicle weight ad dinmkia  (VWD) Umits
ad trafic, incd g weigh-In-motio sveys).
DA       Conuc in      fideew Xoftholoddeveopmeujpogmanpepa              PT Jm  Mrga                         Sep 1989         Jan 1990     Tolmodcdvelopinmpogr  reviewbanlreadycmmeed
guilila esm the aalysis of propsl for the cotnaction of new  high  DCII
capacity oads.                                                 DOLC
DJ       PoaWlsiad imtuplmnent impved  ngementa atdprmedum for    DGII                                       Jan 1990         Dec 1990     Thb will Igvolve theri  andt I vemepnt of
the Initiation, conduct    review of fasiility    is for  n-   DPUPi                                                              Account will be taken of mehdloIes  -doped  =         DI to Df4 and
am  pmpmlb and otber expediture sttegies no covered by te                                                                        the LTDP-I study. Puticus emplmss wil tL pai co             y fat
PPD&D system.                                                                                                                     evaluating propoubs designed to pamit mae di h,gecibtavler ehiclesd p d t mw
D6       r          m  tachia guidelines on the usw of Pordlnd mnu       DCH                                 Ongoing          Mar 1990     The guidelnes will s out the aprh nd n          to be   d   in
ccnaute foroad pavements.                                      IRE                                                                onder to omakb coi.amr Uy  und choics be      rgid and feibie pave-
met  for havily stiked roads.
D.7      Prepre sa bm  tehiald  udeines    n the on of Abton for road    DGH                                 Ongoing          M  r1990     Ibep gidelIn wil onot the appoch sad stnda  to be   t in
pov                                                            IRE                                                                oder to make ecomicaUy   An  chic  b e  Aen m        =on    alte ie
pavemnt matesb for lightly mtawded rods.
DA       Pree and ise tebcl guidelines on the use of teel Mts a          DH                                  Ongoing          Jua 1990     The gidenes will m  out the appoch rnd stand I to be adoptd In
reinford cOnrete bridgOes.                                     IRE                                                                eider to make ecowmically oud ehicbetwen alernative rd  teda-
nologi.
DS       Prepr at    prga  for the prwdon of stadards sad codes of      DGII                                                  Jun 1990
practice (SICP) for food desip      coandestmon In Indonesia.  IRE
D.10     Prpae gidilon ft a esmg and mnimising the qivhmemul             DGH                                 Jul 1990         Dec 1991
Imnpat (El) of ad pnct.                                        MPW LITRANG
D.1l     Pqiwe an insturocedrl i uctiona  on the oppiatimn d El          DCH                 Jn 1992                          Jun 1992
net and  mLstion guidelins                                     MrW LIT0ANG
D.12     Cdt traindin onEl menmat and mm              for road proju    DGH                                  Jan992           Dee 1992
fo a ctum grop of DGH tsd DPUP peesonnel.                      MPW LITIANG
D.13     Review  nd ve protedume for the pre-qafilcation of contrs for DCII                                                  Aug1990
mad prjcs                                                                                                                                                                                              X 
D.14     Prepa  mad iue guideies on the selection of poject and sub-project  DGH                             Ongoing          Jan 1991
M gen (Pmpo od Pimhgpro).
Pit Date: October 10, 1989



POUCIS M'R ROADS AND ROAD TRAMI C AND TRANSPCORT
Ret                                  Action                               Agen                                   Start          Complt                                   Comment/
No.L                                Descrption                            Responsible                           By End           By End                                Cron Refemma
D.IS     P_pr ad bsue  vied manat an rod projet avlsoa                    DGH                                  Ongoing           Jan 1991
D.16       ad        o     amd bnsftutl  n     gm         for tde tchnial    PWH                               Jan 1990         Dec 1991
lk                 oeview ofadp
D.17     Conduct bt g on wod  nm      mt       cd eollection. p            Wll                                 Apr 1990         Jun 1992
,   den,              i      d Melting      ace pouptd          MPW DIKLAT
DC58 D"M pers1M eI
D.18       tppo p      rormtte          dpo lofradp        eqdpmtad  DCH II ,1991                                                             Inidi  boetr at v     eat  5,kW     SPOp  pbea   d ep        m
Implement InItial pause.                                         DPUP-DBMs
D.19     I      e  pestrpduate ital  jorm for hig Y egnew at              DWN                                  Oct 19           Sep 1992
flUZ                                                            MPW DIELAT
D.210    S gtre  Din DS  Maip apablks in the phumi  program-              DGH                                  Jan 1990        mtu 1992
mig, desig   d cetbl   superviontofrork                         DPtJPaDBMs
21    lmpo       ojtmonitelog p dH                                                                                            Mar1990
E   IRAD1UA6XIQ
BI        EBO A MOC Technical Team to onitor d  adequacy NWd rppr -   MOC Stpen                                                 Sep1919       Daft Kqe         d       ead toa   em entled. Tkt nomt
_      fe d    pevalItg rmod  er raatln (ROT) ednm  and to reconm-                                                                                             e      , rswt c e  fi          d
o ee desiable chne to ta   utur  and 1vev.I                                                                                                                            I .nrbma
12       Deveop and assess die expeced lmpcse of aitermntive options forthe    MOC RtrTTeam                    Oct 1989         Mr 1990    Tibi will I     lide eis-f-,  smudtve ot forh
plaedratnllatiof de p           RUT  regime aid fnonulate recm-                                                                     p un fuels (adticaty           te  diael) and the  tt f vehid.
ammd  of b_td rr t sic
U3       Convee firm mnial indterdpartmnta meeits  n road wfe uatl        MOC Sen                                               Apr1990       These bigh-level (dahia I) mold umap will coMartlsidinp ad
rwommiwmm Oftbef MOC Tecil TeM sd fh es recmmend-
tiosforsubmissionbtoCamet. Supplementary mesopwille held.
required
EL4   F atablh nw bai for ware  egItato tax on commerial vehicles   MBA                                                          Ju 1990      The new   m         of vewhide      ma tu for emumcial veice wU
whkb will dqutdy reletir rnod pavement dameig ptt.   MOC                                                                            be bsed on lden  ale b loads rth1  5e
MOF                                                                inetves fcr die use of kW-t rmgi
MMW                                                                 DetailswbeibislkieI       cc tiewith    ursham un vluAe
LS       Announcean agreed phaned ptuo am of  ages to RU  sructues and   MHA                                                    Dec 1990      Publcation i adv    will allow  e rdthr
1vektih tbhe aim that r Vt r mch cba of vehide wit               MOC                                                                plas for fe fleet devewlme
r  not klos th    e ir rbtble economic camIS of rood develop-    MOF
mat, mainena    and admhbrlflrl  by 1994.                        MPW
E6       In acodae with the phased pr      nowtuednderEli.np              MHA                                                   Dec 1990      S     ut   nd       o  as   ntht. oresult ofthe haas,RUT    I 
mm a ne  vei  regsl  ma    cture  ith a s           nt in   e   MOF                                                                 recip  for     eld d     ic1 w     vr a lut 25% of tki a 
Inorates forcamrclaveircis                                       HOC Seen                                                           ecnmc cmCodrtnto  be giertopriigpyetby                              *  gi
Insalmm  to l1o the nitiarl impac    tt on.mmoprcs Apte4l             X
ra M fto t  aotof  eailing        sofodhr  
Pit Date October 10, IM                                                                                                                                                                                          0'
1             



61                     Annex 1
Page 15 of 16
Is~~~~;
Zd   id                                       I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.iniS   1S         1.111 ' 
i i i    2 I  II X



POUCIES FOR ROADS AND ROAD TRAPI7C AND TRANSPORT
Ret                                  Action                             Agenda,                                Stim          Complete                                 Commanaj
No.                                Deseiptihn                            Responible                           By  nd            y End                               Crom iRefen
.9       Dei- and coduct awaem  capaigns to alert commercial vehcle    DGLC                                  Mar 1990         Feb 1992     To be planned and implemnted in clan cmltdsl  wib OROANDA.
opetom to the private ind p c comts of vehicle overloading nrd to
ldae the  oe amet's policy and pogm  for the refom of VWCD
dts and RUT.
P.10     A   neeband p rAeplsn for traing ofroad tranpt                  DGLC                                                 Nov 1989     Needs         t sudy aleady wAerway, inee ecomdtm with
operF                                                                                                                             OR(IANDA. FollowingXOLCtview.daimftod aii            ,tprz
wh  can ihe coaduLed at ka laity by
Trnusport Colleg at Bckasi.
G.    TRAMC SAIZH
0.1      Ppare pogram and budget for frstn  ml     woo   om toad traffic    DGLC                             Dec 1989         May 1990     Wo p participans to                   eVbdr       owtoctiono
MMY.                                                                                                                             &K;&-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sen nld aws of ngag for
0.2      Carse fist mma workshop rod tra ffic ufety.                     DGC                                                  Ju11990      To incude   e of         editedd   dtofmmy
madations for  o     ated        by all iwoved banit. o gov
ad oner agac          o es  - --d
03        rajraandplensptppoam of rmedil mea. for wort    DGC                                                Apr1990          Jun 1991     To  ctkudeahedlpand       e    maadcmoauam        rh
accident blak4p.   . inter-unban nai  in Sm and Sumt..         DOH                                                                effctdvens (to he     tedwittankG          ialrmaltobeenai 
Traffic Palloe                                                    sled ank   for folow-npiapped  CQoaSarUtMUIewitli
IUDP-I TMPPPI cmkUan  equired
a.4      Firulise nd implement Impved  road trffic aciden dataeclection    DGw                               Apr1990          Mar 1991     Impved accident data coilect  famsdevepalby RnwDq
proceduresudest.ih     imda-,ang entafor theaalysis ad    DOH                                                                     testedbiw     Poll.                  ege nto 
rporting of rmd traffic       t.                               IRE                                                                 t          t        atiC POte cenal a   el o             dto
Thffic PoUce                                                      im     i del kim do ros f the agWen       l i   lu       acic dmu
data aul s and   utinLlm          t     coame bhimgeo.-
ye l1nt id            c. ,on (me 03). oke eo otluul
05       piep ilandprfo impvns the enfe                   ofregulail     DWLC                                Octl 1990        Maul99r       The1p1I  b wil be d nsped to help co   e tdot de
reat  to elicl an          i baffle sy.                        Tnflic Poiaeo                                       tbe                                           rI nffk and anoi
and regul btipd c no bing deared #1
effectively. They wilinelude (a) X Telf  tflin TAandequip
ment reqiemns lb) d.lnand plenn of pulcaw_empl
and (c) tedcal gipell    e I.e toTIlmd 1  LAIRu  (tohe
coariutted wtbh tnsk B.?).
a14
ihbitilse OCtZ*et 1O, 19gt                                                                                                                                ov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*   |  | _l   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 63 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Agreed Methodology for Three-Year Expenditure Plan
and Technical and Economic Criteria for Annual Work Program and Budget
Three-year Expenditure Plan
1.        The rolling three year expenditure plan will be prepared in accor-
dance with a methodology similar to that used for preparing the 1989-90 to
1991-92 plan (which was based on the planning and programming procedures deve-
loped during the ADB financed "TAPLO Project). Two main steps will be
followed: (i) optimum treatments will be determined for each sub-roadlink (or
segment) on the basis of an optimization model such as the Bank's Highway
Design Model with appropriate adaptation to Indonesia's circumstances; and
(ii) a three-year work program will be formulated mainly by scheduling the
implementation of optimum treatments on sub-roadlinks on the basis of a simple
ranking criterion giving priority to sub-roadlinks of higher economic returns,
taking into account implementation capability constraints and a reasonable
forecast of available local and foreign funds based on past trends.
2.        In addition the following principles will apply:
(a) Routine maintenance of roads and bridges and replacement of bridges
which have exceeded their service life will be given first call on
resources;
(b) Priority will be given to periodic maintenance of roads in the
allocation of all funds including non-committed or new foreign
funds;
(c)  To optimize the use of non-committed foreign funds, the ongoing
project file will include only sub-projects for which there is a
contract under execution or a committed foreign financed project;
(d) The priority ranking of new works (and technical standard recommen-
dations) will only be changed exceptionally and for well justified
reasons;
(e) New construction of major improvement works will only be included on
the basis of a feasibility study based on sound economic methodolo-
gies showing high economic returns. The balance between new
construction and other types of activities will remain similar to
that of the past few years and resources allocated to new construc-
tion will not result in elimination of the backlog of periodic main-
tenance and betterment being delayed beyond 1994.



ANNEX 2
- 64 -                             Page 2 of 2
(f)  A major effort, including the setting up of data audit procedures,
will be applied to ensure that the quality of traffic and road con-
dition data is satisfactory.
Annual Work Program and Budget
3.        An indicet ve work program and budget for national and provincial
roads will be prepar d annually on the basis of the most likely scenario of
funds availability and after discussion of the three-year expenditure plan
between Central and Provincial authorities. It will provide a list of all
subprojects to be continued or undertaken during the year with mention of the
treatments selected for each sub-roadlink included in the subproject and the
cost of each subproject (preferably after preliminary design). Budget
allocations will be made with the objective of fulfilling the indicative work
program and budget.
4.        The following main criteria will be used in formulating the indica-
tive work program and budgets
(a) The packaging of treatments on sub-roadlinks into subprojects will
be done so as not to upset the priority ranking of sub-roadlinks
while ensuring viable contract packages;
(b) Available funds will be allocated as a priority to maintenance
subprojects;
(c) Preliminary subprojects designs will be prepared for tender through
DHG's Road Design System adjusted as necessary so that its output is
consistent with that of the optimization model mentioned in para. 1
above and it incorporates design philosophies similar to those used
for the Implementation of the Bank-financed Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Project;
(d) An economic internal rate of return (ERR) will be calculated for all
subprojects and the total value of subprojects with an ERR of less
than 15Z will be less than 20Z of funds allocated to non-maintenance
or bridge replacement works.



ANNEX 3
65 -                           Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.   Documents, Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Technical Advisory Services to BIPRAN on Planning and Programming:
(i)  Report on Background of the Roads Sector in Repelita V, draft,
February 1989
(ii)  System Design for Integration and Existing Bina Marga Systems,
February 1989
-> - Volume 1, Conceptual Design, draft, version 3
-    Volume 3, Preliminary System Design, draft, version 3
-    Volume 4, Appendices, draft, version 3
(iii) Bridge Budgets for Repelita V, Memo, November 1988
2.   Road Safety Component - Report by consultan's, June 30, 1988
3.   Consulting Services for Road Improvement Project, Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan for the National and Provincial Road Network, Final
Report, Volumes 1, 1A and 1B, August 1988
4.   Highway Transport Planning Project, Part E, Volume E-5, A Simplified
Bridge Screening Model, Final Report, December 1986
5.   Terms of reference for all consultancy services assignments shown in
Table 4.3.
B.   Selected Working Paper
1.   Directorate General of Highways, Working Paper, April 1989
(i)  Status of On-going Foreign Aid for Bridges
(ii)  Revised On-going Foreign Loans
(iii) Revised Tables of Actual Expenditures and Budget Allocation
(iv)  Tables of Unconstrained Needs
(v) Revised Five-Year Program
(vi)  Revised Three-Year Program
- 68 -
2.   Directorate General of Highways, computer print-outs, June 1989
(i) Sublink Treatment of National and Provincial Roads Program
1989190



-66-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Basil Kesepakatan Program in 1989/90 (Approved 1989190 Budget)
(iii) Program Pembinaan Jalan TH 1989/90 IBRD HSL (List of Road
Subprojects Proposed for IBRD Financing)
(iv) Summary Program by Lending Agency and Loan Number and by
Program
(v)  Summary of Three-year Program to be Financed by IBRD HSL
(vi) Program Penggatian Jembatan 3 Takum (List of Bridge Subprojects
Proposed for Lending Agencies including IBRD)
C.   Reports Related to the Sector/Subsector
1.   The Indonesian Road Transport Regulation, Driver Licensing and Motor
Vehicle Registration Pilot Project, Final Report, March 1989
-    Road Transport Legislation Volumes Al, A2, A3.1, A3.2, A3.3,
A3.4, A4
-    Driver and Motor Vehicle Administration Volumes B1, B2, B3.1,
B3.2, B3.3, B4, B5, B6.1, B6.2
2.   Road User Charges Reviedws, Draft Final Report, May 1988
3.   Transport Sector Overview, Bank Sector Report, July 1988
4.   Highway Maintenance Review, Bank Sector Report, July 1988.



- 67 -
Table 1.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Domestic Freight Movements
Average       Breakdown
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   haul, 1982  by mode, 1982
-    ----  million ton-km) ---------         (km)           (1)
Air la            50       56       54      52       50      970             0.1
Sea /a        13,992  14,300  15,235  15,850  16,468        550             41.8
Railway          962      969     885      916   1,173      205              2.4
Road               -        -  19,400        -        -     111             53.2
River              -        -     890   1,120         -     166              2.5
Total                     36.464                                     100.0
La Estimates based on (assumed) average haul.
Source:   GOI (accurate ton-km statistics are mainly provided by GOI's
national origin-destination surveys which are carried out every 5-7
years. The 1989 survey has not been completed yet).



- 68 -
Table 1.2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Domestic Passenger Traffic
Average trip     Breakdown
1980    1981     1982      1983   length, 1982   by mode, 1982
- (million pass-km) ------           (km)             (Z)
Air                  -       -     4,120   3,100       1,294               4
Rail            6,089   6,166      6,293   6,105         152               5
Road                 -       -   103,000        -         90              88
River                -       -     3,060        -        100              3
Total                       116,473                                100
Source:   GOI (accurate pass-km statistics are mainly provided by GOI's
national origin-destination surveys which are carried out every 5-7
years. The 1989 survey has not been completed yet).



Table 2.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Network Length by Road Class and Island Group
(km)
Nusa /a  Kali-               Maluku &
Road Class              Sumatra  Jakarta  Java   Bali   Tenggara  mantan  Sulawesi  Irian Jaya  Indonesia
National Arterial        5,361       0    2,482    311    1,263    1,691    2,872           186     14,166
National Collector         534       0       310      0      274       258      130         545      2,051
National Local             198       0         0      3      387         0        0           0        588
All National          6,093       0    2,792    314    1,924    1,949    3,002           731     16,805
Provincial Arterial        768       0       127      0       13       243      787          31      1,969
Provincial Collector    9,370        0    6,168    467    1,767    3,309    4,311         2,316     27,708
Provincial Local           683       0       495     48    1,360       182      352         190      3,220
All Provincial       10,821       0    6,700    515    3.140    3.734    5.450        2,537      32,897
National & Provincial  16,914             9,492    829    5,064    5,683    8,452         3,268     49,702
District                44,948       0   44,157  4,639   15,470   14,592   24,192        6,172    154,170
Municipal                8,297   4,096   14,126    403    1,481    2,800    3,596           996     34,795
Transmigration           3,564       0      130       0        0       860      734          58      5,346
Grand Total          75,721   4,096   67,905  5,871   22,015   25,609   37,700       10,494    244,013
/a Including Timor Timur.
Source: DGH, February 1989 (latest reclassification not included).



Table 2.2
- 70 -
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PP.OJECT
a'
Road Network Density by Road Class and Island Group
Road Density/Land Area (km/ 000 km')
Land area     National
Island Group           ('000 km2)     & Prov.    District    Other       Total
Sumatra                   473.6        35.7         94.9       29.3      159.9
Java /a                   132.2        71.8        334.0      107.8      513.7
Bali                        5.6       148.0        828.4        0.0    1,048.4
Nusatenggara /b            82.9        61.1        186.6        0.0      265.6
Ralimantan                539.5        10.5         27.0        9.9       47.5
Sulawesi                 189.2         44.7       127.9        26.7      199.3
Makulu & Irian Jaya       496.5         6.6         12.4        2.1        21.1
Indonesia         1,919.5         25.9        80.3        23.7      129.9
Road Density/Population
Estimated                 (km/'000 population)
1987        National
Island Group          population      & Prov.    District    Other      Total
(million)
Sumatra                    34.59        0.5         1.3         0.4        2.2
Java /a                   103.28        0.1          0.4        0.1         0.7
Bali                        2.72        0.3          1.7        0.1         2.2
Nusatenggara Lb             6.96        0.7          2.2        0.2         3.2
Kalimantan                  8.14        0.7          1.8        0.7         3.1
Sulawesi                   12.02        0.7         2.0         0.4        3.1
Makulu & Irian Jaya         3.15        1.0          2.0        0.3         3.3
Indonesia           170.86         0.3         0.9         0.3        1.5
/a Including D.K.I. Jakarta.
/b including Timor Timur.
Source: DGH, February 1989.
Road Network Density in Select Countries
Total                   Total
Country                     Km/1,000 sq km        km/1,000 population
Indonesia                          130                       1.50
Malaysia                           128                       2.72
Philippines                        537                       2.91
India                              488                       2.43
Brazil                             164                      11.82
USA                                673                      28.02



- 71 -                                   Table 2.3
SNDONSSIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Pavements by Road Class and Island Group
Road                            Java-           Kali-                 Nusa     Other
class                 Sumatra  Bali   Jakarta  mantan  Sulawesi  Tenggara  Islands  Indonesia.
National    Paved        89      100       -        69       75         85       54          83
Unpaved     11        0        -       31        25        15        46         17
Total      100      100        -      100      100        100       100        100
Provincial  Paved        73       97       -        37       60         50       35          66
Unpaved     27        3        -       63        40        50        65         34
Total      100      100        -      100      100        100       100        100
National &  Paved        79       98       -        48       65         65       40          72
Provincial  Unpaved      21        2       -        52       35         35       60          28
Total      100      100        -      100      100        100       100        100
District    Paved        21       56       -        10       17         13       15          29
Unpaved     79       44        -       90        83        87        85         71
Total      100      100        -      100      100        100       100        100
Urban       Paved        60       70      85        S8       66         63       69          67
Unpaved     40       30       15       42        34        37        31         33
Total      100      100     100       100      100        100       100        100
Grand Total Paved        38       64      85        23       32         28       27          43
Unpaved     62       36       15       77        68        72        73         57
Total      100      100     100       100      100        100       100        100
Note: Other Islands includes the provinces of Maluku, Irian Jaya and Timor Timur.  District
Roads include Transmigration and NESPIR roads.
Sources; DGH and Biro Pusat Statistik. February 1989.



Table 2.4
- 72 -
INDONESTA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Condition of the National and Provincial Road Network. 1988
Percentage of the National and Provincial
Road Network in Indicated Condition
Island            Good      Fair      Moderate       Poor       Bad
Group              IRI       IRI         IRI          IRI       IRI       Total
<4     4 - 6        6 - 8       8 - 12      >12
Sumatra            15         15          14          26          31       100
Java/Bali           36        19           16         27           2       100
Kalimantan           5        10           12         25          47       100
Other Isl-nds        7         5           15         31          42       100
Indonesia       16         12          14          ^s          30       100
Source: DGH, February 1989.



73                             Table 2.5
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles, 1976-86 /ja
Year/                                  Goods
period                  Buses         vehicles         Cars           Total
Vehicle Numbers ('000)
1974                   31.4          166.4           337.7           535.5
1975                   35.9          189.5           378.0           603.4
1976                   39.4          220.7           419.2           679.3
1977                   46.6          268.1           471.1           785.8
1978                   57.8          328.0           531.2           917.1
1979                   69.5          383.6           581.5        1,034.7
1980                   86.2          478.1           639.5        1,203.7
1981                  112.1          590.5           722.4        1,203.7
1982                  134.4          657.1           791.0        1,582.6
1983                  160.3          717.9           869.0        1,748.1
1984                  184.3          809.5           941.7        1,935.6
1985                  228.2          844.4           997.3        2,069.8
1986                  256.6          876.1        1,059.9         2,192.5
Annual Average Growth Rates (Z)
1976-86                20.6           14.8             9.7            12.4
1974-80                17.2           18.1            11.5            14.1
1979-82                24.6           19.6            10.8            15.2
1979-86                21.6           16.1            10.1            13.3
1982-86                17 5            7.5             9.1             7.5
/a   Based on new vehicle registrations (without adequate allowarce for
scrappings).
lb   Provisional figures.
Sources: Derived from Table V.1, Nota Keuangan dan Rancangan Anggaran
Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara Tahun 1988-89, Republik Indonesia.



Table 2.6
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PaOJECT
Distribution of Annual Vehicle-Kilometers by Road Class and Island Group
(km million)
Island                            Total                         Total     National &    I         Veh-km
Group           NA      NK  NL   National  PA      PK     PL  Provincial  Provincial  Total   Per capita
Sumatra        4,839  204   35    5,079   163   2,540   92       2,795        7,873    27.2        223
Java           6,765  423    0    7,168   129   6,091  303       6,523       13,711    47.4        141
Bali             493    0    7       500     0      285   35       320          821     2.8        298
Nusatenggara     463   64    0       527    16      285  112       414          941     3.3        145
Kalimantan       824   16    0       840    92      488   1^       590        1,430     4.9        169
Sulawesi       1,980   26    0    2,006   561   1,164   83       1,809        3,814    13.2        310                     1
Other            116   20   18       159    11      158   31       200          353     1.2         89                     s
Indonesia     15,480  758   60   16,298   973  11,011  667    12,650         28,943   100.0        174
2 Total      58.5  2.6  0.2      56.3   3.4    38.0  2.3       43.7        100.0
Note:  Java excludes D.K.I. Jakarta               NA: National Arterial          PAs Provincial Arterial
Other includes Maluku, Irian Jaya         NK: N-tional Collector          PK: Provincial Collector
and Timor Timur                           NL: National Local              PL: Provincial Local
Source: DGE, February 1989.



Table 2.7
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Mean Traffic Levels by Road Class and Island Group
(AADT)
Total                             Total     National &
Island Group    NA      NK       NL  National   PA       PK      PL    Provincial  Provincial
Sumatra         2,473  1,046      484  2,283       582     743   869       708        1,275
Java/Bali       7,121  3,744   5,527  6,783    2,790   2,633 2,043    2,599           3,858
Kalimantan      1,335    170        -  1,181    1,069      404   150       433          689
Sulawesi        1,950    549        -  1.887    1,953      740   646       909        1,250
Nusatenggara      938    640        -    888    3,469      442   766       519          676
Other Islands  1,708    100       128    377       958     187    74       157          210
Indonesia   2,994  1,006      279  2,656    1,352   1,089   567    1,053           1,595
Source: DGH, February 1989.



- 76 -
Table 2.8
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Expenditures in Highway Sector 51984185 to 1988189) la
(Current Rp billion)
Type of road
Type of activity          1984185    1985/36    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Source of funds                                                      (estimate)
National and Provincial Roads
Maintenance                141.0      154.1       164.7      258.7      448.4
Betterment                 218.0      176.0      146.9       380.1      675.8
New construction           101.0       85.5       99.9        34.1       91.8
Bridge replacement          30.9       40.4       19.9        63.2  in Bett.
TA/Administration lb        11.9       16.3       14.8       108.4      168.1
Equipment/Materials         57.1      109.1      118.8       126.5      188.9
Total                559.9       581.4      565.0       971.0    1,573.0
Central GOI funds          349.6      308.1      164.0       140.0      137.3
Inpres Dati I               88.0      100.2       97.0       121.3      190.9
Foreign aid                122.3      173.2      304.0       709.7    1,244.8
District Roads
Total                266.8       291.7      375.9       384.7      547.'
Inpres Jalan                80.1       87.5      130.0       130.0      180.0
Inpres Dati II             155.1      174.1      194.9       200.1      228.6
Other local funds            9.5        7.8         2.0        0.C        0.6
Fozeign aid                 22.1       22.3       49.0        54.0      138.5
Toll Roads
Total                119.9        75.7      134.6       234.2      563.6
Central GOI funds           38.7        7.5        0.2         0.4        0.0
Jasa Uiarga                 45.1       40.0       88.4       112.4      196.4
Foreign aid                 36.1       28.2       46.0       121.4      367.2
Total                      946.6      948.8    1,077.5    ',589.9    2,684.3
Local                 766.1      723.1      676.5       704.8      933.8
Foreign              180.5       223.7      401.0       885.1    1,750.5
Total GOI funds /c as X of
Development Expen4itures  9.5         8.4       11.9        15.5       22.0
/a Given remaining deficiencies in DGH's reporting system, these figures
should be taken cautiously.
lb Expenditures in this category were underreported until recently.
/c Total minus off-budget funds for toll roads.
Sourcet DGM, April 1989



Table 2.9
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DGH Geometric Design Standards la
Primary Highways                               Secondary Highways
I                      II A                    IIB                      II C
Moun-                   Moun-                   Moun-                    Moun-
Terrain               Flat  Rolling  tainous  Flat  Rolling  tainous  Flat  Rc1ing  tainous  Flat  Rolling  tainous
Average daily
traffic (ADT) in          20,000                6.000-20,000             1,500-8,000                <2,000
passenger car units
Design speed (km/h)    120   100         co     100   80         60      80    50         40      60    40        30
Minimum right of way    60    60         60      40   40         40      30    30         30      30    30        30
(m)
No. of lanes x
pavement vidth (m)   Minimum 4 x 3.75         2x3.50 or 4x3.50             2x3.50                   2x3.5O
Minimum median width    102 of roadway               1.51b                      -                        -
(m)
Shouloer width (m)    3.50   3.00     3.00    3.00   2.50      2.50    3.00   2.50     2.50    2.50   1.50      1.00
Pavement cross slope          22                       22                      22                       3S
Shoulder cross slope          42                       41                      62                       6S
Surfacing          Asphaltic Concrete (AC)             AC                      Id                       Id
(hot mix)
Maximum superelevation        102                     lO                      10                      102
Minimum horizontal     560   350        210     350   210       115     210   115         50     115    50        30
radius (m)
Mayimum grade           32    52         62      42   62         72      52    72         82      62    8S       102
la  Pavement structure is designed for a design life of about ten years, unless another design life would be
warranted. Bridges are designed in accordance with DGH's 'Standar4 Loading Specification for Sighway Bridges,
12/1970.
L   Only for 4-lane highways.
jc According to condition.
/d  Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treatment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of
economic considerations. Generally roads with the above design standards can be varied flexibly to suit special
conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.
Source: Directorate General of Highways. Standard Document No. 13/1970.



Table 2.9
Page 2 of 2
Design Standards for District Roads and Bridges
Directorate General Bina Marga                       DESIGN CRITERIA                      Procedures of the preparation
FOR                            of rural road programne            Page
Directorate of Rood Plannins                         KABUPATEN ROADS                      proposals by Kabupdten Staff          No.
Road Classification                   Class III A                           Class III B                            Class III C
Surface                            Asphalt Surface          Asphalt Nal                  Gravel                   Gravel
TRAFFIC VOJLUME  :AT3.000 - S00                                500 - 200                 200 - s0o                       50
(Traffic Classe                     (4   5                      8) (3)                  (2)                    1(O A  )
Flat to          Mount-  Flat to           Mount-  Flat to          Mount-  Flat to           Mount-
TERRAIN                rolling   Hilly  ainous  rolling   Hilly  alnous  rolling   Hilly  ainous  rolling   Hilly  ainous
Traffic Lanes             2         2       2      1.       1.      1.       1.       1.      14       1        1        1
Design                 lDesirable   70        80      40      60       40      30      6o        40      30       60        s0      30
Speed       (K/H)  lMinimum      50       40      30      40        gO      30      40       30      30        30       30      30
Gradient               IMaximum      a         6      10       6        6      10        8        6      12        6        12      16
(Limiting)   ()   lkinimum
Pavemont               lDesirable   6.0       6.0     6.0     4.5      4.5     4.6      4.5      4.5     5.6      3.5       3.5     3.6
Width        (M)   lMinimum      4.5      4.5     4.5      3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5      3.5     8.5       3.0      3.0     3.0
Shoulder               IDesirable   2.0       1.5     1.5     1.6      1.5     1.0      1.5      1.0     1.0      1.0       1.0     0.7S
Width        CM)  :Minmum        1.5      1.0     0.75    1.0       1.0     0.76    1.0      0.75    0.76     0.76      0.6     0.6
Road Bed               IDesirable  10.0       9.0     9.0        7.5   7.5     6.6      7.5      6.5     6.5      5.5       5.6     6.0
Width        (M)   lMin mum      7.5 _     .6     e.0     6.6       5.5     5.0     5.5      6.0    4.S       4.6       4.0     4.0
Right                  IDesirable             16                  -    12 1                      1221                      121U
of Way      (Row)  lMinlmum               12 M                      10 1                     10 U                        8        ex
Road                   IPavement              3a                        33                        4X - 6X                   4X -
Camber   (Maximum) IShoulder               4% - 65                  65 - ax                   ex - 7x                    6X - 7X
Bride Width
Length  Deirabie  overall width           7.0 M                     7.0 M                    7.0 M                       4.6 5
S e      Without  aidewalk emin        4. 5M                    4.5 M                     4. sM                       4.6 M
6 -   Desra bl- overall width           750 M                     7.0 k                    4.t M                       4.5 M
8o M  Without sidewalk (min)            4.6 M                    4.5 M                     4.6 M                       4.5 L
Desirable overall Width           7.0 1                    4.5 s                     4.6 M                      4.5 s
> 80 HWithout sidewalk (min)             4.6 1                    4.5 M                     4.6 1                       4.6 1
lmeprarr  Brid e   n  mizum)            3.0                       8                        8.0   a.0                     O 
Brids  Desion Loading                     78X am                    so 8"                    soX am                      sox mS
Source: DGH, February 1969



- 79 -                           Table 3.1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Three-Year Expenditure Plan for National and Provincial Roads
A. Planned Expenditures
Activity                                 1989/90    1990/91   1991/92      Total
------ (Current Rupiah billion) ------
Maintenance
Roads
Routine                                 27         45          80       152
Holding                                111        127          71       308
Periodic                               155         69         307       531
Bridges                                   20         17          21        58
Betterment
Standard                                 526        780         487     1,793
Widening                                  32         69          75       176
Bridge Replacement
Civil Works                               76         41          86       203
Materials                                 82         83          81       246
New Construction/Upgrading
Roads                                     15         31          46        92
Land acquisition                           0          0          50        50
Bridges                                    5          6           7        18
Administration                             181        220         246       647
Total                              1,230       1,488      1,556      4,274



- 80 -                           Table 3.1
Page 2 of 2
B. Physical Targets
Activity                                 1989/90    1990/91   1991/92      Total
-- (km of roads/m of bridges) -----
Maintenance
Roads
Routine                              7,824     14,146     23,292    45,262
Holding                            12,726      13,423       7,445    33,594
Periodic                            3,598       2,694      2,214      8,505
Bridges                             248,751    287,818    300.514   837,083
Betterment
standard                              8,905       6,690       3,412    19.007
Widening                                 212        425         465     1,102
Bridge Replacement                       8,332      5,648      10,000    23,980
New Construction'Upgrading
Roads                                    132        264         284       680
Bridges                                  766        844         931     2,541
Source: DGH, April 1989



- 81 -                          Table 3.2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Main Ongoing and Committed Foreign Loans
Lending agency       Loan         Balance la
or Country       reference    (US$ million)              Comments
ADB                     692          57.0
863         150.0
IBRD                   2049           6.0       Part of loan balance to be
2638           5.0       used for national and
2717          45.0       provincial roads
OECF                    314          17.5
340         228.5
INP 10          70.0
EXIM-Bank                            29.0        For cofinancing of ADB and
IBRD projects
Kuweit                  352          20.0
FRG              77.65.332           26.0
Australia                            83.0
Other                                26.0       UK, Canada and Austria
Total                          763.0
d As of March 31, 1989.
Source: DGM, April 1989. Mission estimates.



- 82 -                         Table 3.3
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Three Year Expenditure Plan for National and Provincial Roads
Breakdown of Expenditures in Accordance with Availability of Foreign Funds
(Current billion rupiah)
Value of projects   Value of projects for
Total       for which foreign   which no foreign aid
Activity              expendicures   aid is committed      is yet committed la
Maintenance             1,049                 308                    741
Betterment              1,969              1,136                     933
Bridge replacement
Civil works             203                 92                     111
Materials               246                 198                     48
New construction          160                   0                    160
Administration            647                  55                    592
Total              4,274              1,789                   2,485
Source of Funds
Foreign               2,687              1,350                   1,337
Local                 1,587                439                   1,148
/a Includes all new loans which have been announced but have not yet been
finalized.
Source: DSM, April 1989. Mission estimates.



- 83 -                                           Table 4.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Flrst List of Bank Financed Subprolect.
Betterment           Periodic Maintenance    Brtd- Roolsc*mant Total Cost
Province                km   (No) Rpmllcn         km    (No) Rp million        m   Rp m;Illion  Rp mi TIlion
1.  Aceh                  68.6    (1)   7,000         1e.6   (2k      8,630       776      6,200       16,830
2.  North Sumetra        228.5    (2)  14,170        878.7  (1'.)    16,226       575      2,627       88,023
8.  Weet Sumatra         100.0    (1)   6,828         88.2   (2)      6,605       960      6,850       18,281
4.  Riau                 112.1    (8)  14,402           --               -        410       2,900      17,802
5.  Jambi                 71.8    (2)  11,826          N/A   (2)      5,s98        --          --      17,212
6.  Bongkulu              82.8    (2)  10,504         58.7   (2)      8,716       875      2,e26       16,845
7.  South Sumatra        160.0    (1)   8,198        164.4   (8)    16,956        260      2,200       27,365
8.  Lampung                 --               --      108.8   (6)      8,815       150      1,200       10,016
9.  West Java                --                      184.6   (7)    18,452        985      6,910       24,862
10.  Central Java             --                      288.5   (8)    20,896        420       2,940      28,885
11. Jogyakarte                --              --      18.6   (5)    10,841         190       1,520      12,881
12.  East Java                --                      269.8  (28)    59,209   a86           8,286       62,494
13.  Woet Kalimantan       65.0    (1)   8,258         81.9   (4)      8,019       900      7,880       21,682
14.  Central Kaliuantan       -               -        84.8   (8)      5,810        -           --       5,810
1S.  East Kalimantan         -                --       69.2   (7)    15,896        245      2,205       17,601
16.  South Kalimantan      81.6    (1)   5,260         80.8   (4)      8,080        -           -       18,280
17.  BSal                                     -        44.2   (4)    10,799         --   --             10,799
18.  West Nus- Tenger         --                      15.8   (5)    16,840         700      6,128       21,468
19.  East Nus Tenger                          --       70.5   (8)      6,784       428      8,971       10,756
20.  North Sulawesi        54.5    (1)   4,875        156.2   (8)    15,874        1S0       1,087      21,186
21.  Central Sulawesi         --              --      167.4   (6)      8,848        --                   8,848
22.  South East Sulawesi 241.0    (8)  89,824          25.9   (4)      7,056        -           -       46,880
28.  South Sulawesi           -               -          -                 --      895       6,105       5,106
24.  Maluku                 19.4    (1)   8,688          --               --    1,200        9,040      12,678
25.  Irian Jays               -               -        12.4   (8)      6,997        -           --       6,997
26.  East Timor               -               -        78.8   (8)      8,e8e       240         960       4,848
Total         1.208.8         118.400    2.88S.6          282.400    9.718       78.613     474.413



- 84 -                                     Table 4.2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Consultancy Services
Foreign      Local                 Cost       S of
Agency name and assignment                consultants  consultants  Total  USS million  total
-------- staff-months ---------                 cost
For Technical Assistance:
DGH (Dir. of Planning) for PPB                 108            40       148        1.6
DGH (Dir. of Planning) for Eng. Dev.           108           135       243        1.6
DGH (Dir. of Planning) for Implementation
Quality Improvement                          152           140       292        2.7
DGH (Dir. of Urban Roads) for Highway
Capacity Manual                               56            96       152        0.9
DGH (Information Section) for MIS               12            74        86        0.5
DGH for Central Axle Load Survey Unit           30           144       174        0.9
IRE for Research, Trainlng and Support         111            87       198        1.6
IRE for Technical Standards Developmer*        123           108       231        1.6
Jasa Marga for Quality Control and
Maintenance Management                        95            50       145        1.4
MOC for Advisors on Road Usec Taxation           15            -        1S        0.2
MOC for Advisors on Vehicle tWeights, etc.       40           42        82        1.0
MOC for Advisors on Road Traffic Safety         33            30        63        0.7
MOC for Institutional Development of DGLC       56            59       115        1.2
Jasa Marga for Feasibility Studies              35            25        60        0.5
Subtotal TA                               974        1.030      2.004      16.4        36
For Preparation and Imvlementation of Clivil
Work (PP&I):
DGH/DBMs (Dir. of Implementation) for
Design and Supervision                         -         6,750     6,750      18.0
DGH/DBMs for Technical Support                 405           999     1,404        7.2
Subtotal PP&I                             405        7,749      8,154      25.2        55
For Training (T):
DGH for DKILAT Training Program                 70           100       170        1.4
MOC for Training of Road Transport
Operators                                     65            55       120       1.2
ITB for Graduate Training (S2 Program)          79           100       179       1.5
Subtotal T                                214           255       469       4.1         9
Total                                   1,593         9,034    10,627      45.7       100



- 85 -                                   Table 4.3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
List of Equipment
(as agreed at negotiations)
Equipment                                              Quantity   Unit price    Total price
(US$)         (US$)
For Implementation Quality Improvement Program:
Laboratory and field testing equipment La             3 sets     80,000.00      240,000.00
For Central Axle Load Survey Units
Dynamic weighing scale /b                                  1    300,000.00      300,000.00
Spare parts for existing equipment                         -    510,000.00      510,000.00
Subtotal                                                                    810,000.00
For IREs
Dynamic loading machine lb                                 1    365,000.00      365,000.00
Traffic and Transport Ecuipment
Portable weighbridge (PWB)                               4      6,000.00       24,000.00
Aatomatic weighing scale (P1S)                           2      9,500.00       19,000.00
Portable smoke pollution analyzer (PSPA)                 1      6,750.00        6,750.00
Sound level meter (SLM)                                  4      1,000.00        4,000.00
Automated traffic counter and classified (ATCC)          2      8,000.00       16,000.00
Field traffic counter
Retrieval equipment
Miscellaneous Equipment
Portable drill magnetic base stand                       1      2,500.00        2,500.00
Concrete test hammer                                     3      1,400.00        4,200.00
Core drill diamond bit                                   8        750.00        6,000.00
Electroscope top-pan balance                             1      2,200.00        2,200.00
Automatic Marshall testing apparatus                     1      1,600.00        1,600.00
Thin section holders                                     1        500.00          500.00
Specimen mounting                                        1        250.00          250.00
Grinding and lapping                                     1      3,000.00        3,000.00
Microviscometer and RTFO
Hicroviscometer                                          1)    14,000.00       14,000.0
Rolling thin film oven                                   1}
Lacroix deflectograph spare parts                        1     51,000.00       51,000.00
Subtotal                                                                    520,000.00



- 86 -                                   Table 4.2
Page 2 of 2
Equipment                                              Quantity   Unit price    Total price
(US$)         (US$)
For Jasa Margat
Computing equipment for maintenance management
system Ic                                                -          -          17,000.00
Pavement monitoring survey /c                          3,360     35,000.00      117,600.00
FWD pavement strength survey /c                        1.120     15,000.00       16,800.00
Pavement coring and slab sampling for routine
quality control checks /c                              280         30.00        8,400.00
Inventory data collection for MKS /c                   1,120         57.00       63,840.00
Other special quality control monitoring and
technical audit equipment
,Roughness meter                                          1      3,000.00       3,000.00
Dipstick profilometer                                    1     15,000.00       15,000.00
?roxler asphalt meter                                    1     25,000.00       25,000.00
Gyro compactor                                           1     30,000.00       30,000.00
Basic asphalt and concrete testaing equipment            1     35,000.00       35,000.00
Pendulum skid tester                                     1      5,000.00        5,000.00
Other equipment items                                    1     20,000.00       20,000.00
Subtotal                                                                     330,140.00
For DGLC:
Vehicle testing and accident data collection
recording and analyzing esuipment /La                               -      2,100,000.00
Total Cost                                                                4,000,140.00
/a Detailed list to be provided and agreed when review by consultants is complete.
lb Needs further discussion on type of equipment required.
/c Renting of equipment should be considered before procurement is initiated.



- 87 -                                 Table 4.4
11DONEIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Costs by Component la
Approximate Cost
Loan Financed                                              1989190-1990/91                  z
Components                                      Local        Foreign        Total      foreign
Road and BridRe Improvement and Maintenance
Civil Works                                      205.2         256.9        462.1         56
Technical Support                                  4.7            2.5         7.2         35
Engineering and Supervision                       11.7            6.3        18.0         35
Subtotal                                     221.6          265.7        487.3         55
Road Traffic Safety
Civil Works                                        5.3            6.7        12.0         56
Equipment                                          0.1            2.0         2.1         95
Advisory Services                                  0.1            0.6         0.7         80
Subtotal                                       5.5            9.3         14.8         63
Technical Assistance
Consultancy Services                               3.1          12.6         15.7         80
Equipment for Quality Control and Research         0.1            1.0         1.1         95
Equipment for Weigh-in-Motion                      -              0.8         0.8         95
Subtotal                                       3.2           14.4         17.6         82
Training
Consultancy Services                               0.8            3.3         4.1         80
Overseas Program                                   -             2.0          2.0        100
Subtotal                                       0.8            5.3          6.1         87
Total Base Cost                              231.1          294.7        525.8         56
Price Contingencies                                 24.5           29.7        54.2         55
TOTAL                                      255.6          324.4        580.0         56
/a Excludes taxes and duties.



- 88 -                             Table 4.5
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Sumnary of Costs by TyPe of Expenditure /a
(USS million)
Approximate Cost
Loan Financed                      1989/90 - 91/92
Subprojects              Local      Foreign        Total         S foreign
Civil Works
Road Rehabilitation/
Betterment              56.3        71.7         128.0            56
Periodic Maintenance    134.4        145.6         280.0            52
Bridge Replacement        19.8        46.3          66.1            70
Subtotal              210.5       263.6         474.1            56
Equipment
Road Traffic Safety        0.1          2.0          2.1            95
Quality Control and
Research               0.1         1.0           1.1            95
Weigh-in-Motion            -            0.8          0.8            95
Subtotal                0.2         3.8           4.0            95
C'rnsultancy Services lb
Technical Assistance       3.1        12.6          15.7            80
Road Traffic Safety        0.1          0.6          0.7            80
Preparation and Imple-
mentation of Civil
Works                   16.4          8.8         25.2            35
Training                   0.8         3.3           4.1            80
Subtotal               20.4        25.3          45.7            55
Overseas Training            -            2.0          2.6           100
Total Base Cost       231.1       294.7         525.8            56
Price Contingencies         24.5         29.7         54.2            55
Total                 255.6       324.4         580.0            56
/a Excludes taxes and duties.
/b Table 4.2 summarizes all consultancy services.



- 89 -                          Table 4.6
INDONESIA
IBI-HWAY SECTOR PROJECT
l
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumulative           Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year               disbursements              of regional transport
and semester               US$ million       z                 projects (Z)
1990
December 31, 1989               0            0                         0
June 30, 1991                  60.0         17                         1
1991
December 31, 1990             100.0         29                         5
June 30, 1991                 150.0         43                        13
1992
December 31, 1991             200.0         57                        22
June 30, 1992                 250.0         7t                        32
1993
December 31, 1992             300.0         86                        42
June 30, 1993                 350.0        100                        59
1994
December 31, 1993                                                     76
June 30, 1994                                                         85
1995
December 31, 1994                                                     94
June 30, 1995                                                         98
1996
December 31, 1995                                                    100
Mission Estimate



- 90 -
Table 5.1
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Suumnarized Description of Standard Segments
A.  Main Parameters of Definition
Geographic Area          Roughness                 Traffic
IRI (m/km)                (AADT)
Sumatra                     0-4                Above 10,000
Java-Bali                   4-6               3,000 - 9,999
Kalimantan                  6-8               1,000 - 2,999
Other Islands              8-12                   500 - 999
above 12                    200 - 499
Below 200
B. Total Number of Standard Segments
4 geographic x  5 categories  x  6 categories = 120 standard segments
areas        of roughness        of traffic
C. Detailed Data Input
Each of the 120 standard segments is described by the following charac-
teristics (each valued in general as the average for all actual segments
falling in the category):
(i)  environment :      rainfall - altitude
(ii)  road geometry :    rise/fall - curvat"re - carriageway width -
superelevation - shoulder width - number of lanes
(iii)  traffic :          average daily traffic for car - pickup/minibus -
smallbus - large bus - light truck - medium
truck - heavy truck
(iv)  surface :          surface type - number of new layers and their
thickness - number of old layers and their
thickness
(v)  Base/subgrade s   base type - base thickness - subgrade CBR -
structural No
(v)  road condition:    area of all cracks - area of wide cracks -
ravelling - potholes - rut depth (mean and
standard deviation) - roughness
(vi)  pavement historys  preventive treatment age - surfacing age -
construction age - area of previous all and wide
cracks



- 91 -
Table 5.2
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SxCTOR PROJECT
Optimum Initial Treatments and IERR for each Standard Segment
Geographic   Roughness                           Traffic (AADT)
Area        IRI (m/km)   Above       3,000-    1,000-    500-    200-    Below
10,000    9,999      2,999      999      499       200
Sumatra          0-4          C1         01         01        01       01       01
N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A
4-6          22         22         22        01       01      01
216Z        50?       21?      N/A      N/A      N/A
6-8          24         24         23        23       01      01
2852        85Z        65Z      19Z    N/A       N/A
8-12         No          24         24        24      22       01
segm.        179Z        681      33Z      20Z    N/A
>12         No          33         33        32       31       02
segm.        2872       1122       572     29Z    N/A
Java-Bali        0-4          01         01         01        01       01     No
N/A       N/A        N/A       Nli.    N/A   segm.
4-6          22         22         22        01       01     No
141?        592       20Z      N/A      N/A   segm.
6-8          24         24         23        22       22     No
196Z        80?       38?       17?   ' 15?  segm.
8-12          24         24         24        24      22      No
4822      182?        69?       28Z      16?  segm.
>12         No         No          33        32       31     No
segm.     segm.         1112       472     24?  segm.
Kdl1itantan      0-4          01         01         01        01       01       01
N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A
4-6         No          22         01        01       01      01
segm.         27?      N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A
6-8         No         No          23        22       01      01
segm.      segm.         34Z       16?    N/A      N/A
8-12         No         No          24        24      22       01
segm.     segm.          60?      25?      16?    N/A
>12         No         No          33        32       31       02
segm.     segm.          97?      55?      23?    N/A



- 92 -                            Table 5.2
Page 2 of 2
Geographic   Roughness                         Traffic (AADT)
Area       IRI (m/km)   Above      3,000-    1,000-    500-    200-    Below
10,000    9,C99     2,999      999     499       200
Other Islands  0-4           01        01         01       01       01      01
N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A
4-6        No          22        22        01      01       01
segm.        41Z       15?      N/A     N/A      N/A
6-8        No          24        23        22      01       01
segm.        662        652      19X    N/A      N/A
8-12        No          24        23        22      01      01
segm.       177X        622      27X    N/A      N/A
>12         No        No           33      32      31       01
segm.     segm.       107%       57?     25Z    N/A
Treatment Codes
01   :Routine maintenance
02   : Minimum service treatment (heavy routine maintenance plus some
emergency works)
11   :Single bituminous surface treatment
12   : Double bituminous surface treatment
21   : Hot Rolled Sheet (HRS - 3 cm asphalt concrete overlay with high
bitumen content)
22     HkS and asphalt treated base levelling (ATBL)
23   : HRS and 4 cm asphalt treated base (ATB)
24   :HRS and 4 cm ATB and ATBL
31   :Double bituminous surface treatment and 15 cm aggregate base
32   :HRS and 4 cm ATB and 15 cm aggregate base
33   : HRS and 4 cm ATB and ATBL and 15 cm aggregate base
Note:  (i)   In each cell of the above four matrices, the top figure indicatqs
the optimum initial treatment and the bottom one the IERR. There
may be no segment in the cell (i.e., no road with the correspond-
ing levels of ltraffic and roughness). The IERR is ;not calcu-
lated for routine maintenance.
(ii)   The IERR (incremental economic rate of return) is the ERR of not
postponing the treatment by one year.
(iii)   The 11, 12 and 21 treatments are currently never found optimum by
the RMS.
(iv)   The timing of subsequent treatments - in general 01 and 21 - is
also optimized for each standard segment.
Source: Consulting Services for Road Improvement Project. Final Report,
Volume 1. (Based on 1987 data).



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHWAYS (DGH)
ICE?TRAL GOVERNMENT
MHIST  OF PIJBUC
WORKS
(GIna Uwgaspef
1
Smtoyd"  of
Oh"w
Goa;
rPuaar I ennel   |  |  p       & ||      Flnaic                                     Ohnata
A emlelatrallan   | P _agiaa Crntrel  Administration          Lagal SectIon      Mr  onl
SaS           Sandln             SecSoa                                     Seace.
DIRECTOR OF                        OIRECTOR OF                         DET  IN                           CENTRA REN                           E S RE OIRETNR OF
PLANNINB                           EOUIPIIENT                       IMPLENENTATION   |                   PLEMENTATION                      IIPLEMNTATION
Road Ledger         Sarblt  |                                          R   Roads          Senea|a       | RuralRods           S ae            Rural  oada        SecIh   |         uralRoad|
Plannnmff         Enano MRl  Enne1g
Rurl Reada           Md             Prdcta 71saou Rila II                                  Ragla II        Raglan 11          Rala III         RegIen RI          Ragla9n 111|    Eam Re7ion         EnglOanatorla |a
SOURCE DOH, APRIL 1987
_ 



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
PROVINCIAL PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY (DPUP)
IN ACEH, RIAU, JAMBI, BENGKULU, LAMPUNG, WEST KALIMANTAN,
CENTRAL KAUMANTAN, NORTH SULAWESI, CENTRAL SULaWESI,
SOUTH EAST SULAWESI, NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR, MALUKU & IRUN JAYA.
HEAD OF DPUP
|ADMINISTRATION |
PERONNL               A         ' LEAL GNEA
PERSONNE  FINANCE      AFFAIRS        AFFAIRS
1                                                                    1 l  l   I   |   I  |  |   EQUIPMENT
PLANNING      |       IRRIGATION               ROADS                BUILDINGS                   &
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ]  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    J  SU PPLIES
IRRIGATION   1ROAD                                                                          IRRIGATION
-  PROGRAMME           -   IRRIGATION           C CONSTRUCTION        X   REGIONAL          -   EQUIPMENT
_______ ______J______ ______________ _____________     ______&            SU PPLIES
ROADS                 RIVERS                 BRIDGE                BUILDINGS                ROADS
PROGRAMME                    &               CONSTRUCTION                  &             - EQUIPMENT
____jAMME          _     SWAMPS           _                           HOUSING               & SUPPLIES
BUILDINGS             OPERATIONS                ROAD       1        SANITATION        LI
PROGRAMME  J          MAINTENANCE            MAINTENANCEWRKOP
IDESIGN
DESIGN          _     & ROAD
INVENTORY
SOURCE: MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS INSTRUCTION
No. 14 OF 1986 DATED 20 OCTOBER 1986.
PN



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DGRD)
Central Goenment
Mlnister of
Home Affairs
Secretary                                      Inspector
General                                        General
I           .                II                                            f_                       
Director General             Dlrector General             Director General              Direeto General                Diector General of General Aduminisuraton
PolftScal Aflairs               of Lands              at Vilage Developmenl         Regional Develepment                   and Regional Autonomy (PUOD)
Regional Development                                Regional Development                                 Urban Development                                     & Develpment
0   Seoretarate    ||    Regihnal      |   0        &cretarlate    |                          ttr o
Development  Cullural ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ oiltw   enra
Planning       _  _      Dev't Planning   |_|_P__________cal Areas   t  |                               Planning       t   0        PotentblX    |   | Analysist&  ianeneerlndfnt    |
Economic           _      Intrastructure    ||     Anysis &                     Remote &                  Urban                      Urban                     atural                  Developmen
DevelomntRiom  PDnnle3 nIndentlficateln    Deve                                 Border Areas                      UaEnInment  e    Infrastructure           E onment   D o             Admintaton
Planning                  MIISERO   HOMEmmn      AFF     A fRS'                                                  AffRE   Ao.2
SOUrCE:aMINIteRO   H         egoMEaFFIS DEC     eENo.a22of 1986adt                                                                                            sle
omwth  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



IBRD 21746
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ZLP A  1 4_,
.                 I' I '^ ^ .,s ^'IMM
so    J .'s ,,            \     
IAI  NhOESI
-  NALIRATA ~ ~   USIAM
~>et;4;; \ j  owm S-*  \  M A L A Y s   A
'~~~~~~~~~~ . 
NIAS ~ ~     ~     ~     -1~O&I
, _J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
I~~~~~~~~~~ I,,,    _E >5_J        >     -                                  ,\ANGKAR
INDONESASIA
SIBEZJT  .   \   /    t  -  /    .). qBANGKA~~~BE hUN
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL
ROAD NETWORK
II.~~~~~~~~M
I  p           ~~~~SUMATERA                               +      ,        
.+4.RMLONYS
4r ~
--  UNUMUL90tROARM                                               J A W A
MIlES                 3 50  4EO  *1  SWIID                          S   b _d
SEPTEMBER 1989



IBRD:
SUMATERA                                                                                                                                                                           I 1     O N ES I A
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
JAWA
MOLL ROADS
- TNA1LHHWWS
-      PfROVNCE RWADS
-----LOCAL ROADS
-o  D   JAKARTA                                                                                                                                            '    P | RP-OADS
i              BALIPROVIE UIJ
1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P               .4                                                                                                                               INCl  V._t TERN&S;lLtOUNDAIS
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _L I, -5Maj
d- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~--
PHILIPPINES
BRUEIJ                                            'byw h b  pd Op
MALA%tA                                                  SW _SAkato 
MALAYIA                                  g o mS coa_w o 1
".SPRE KAL                                    nindus 7ht Tt Bw*
KCALIMANTAN a.nd    IfSh
I+                 SIltAWESIt               I    t       h
IRIANt JAYAj  diSMe d
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ! t mom d Ok*e, an f
.  P  ,  i  eest  ot  n  t  nd  tS  totLOYETERfi ty 20 40 ttO 50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICMEER
JA1     1 N D O N E S I A                 rStSa                                                                 
JAWA    INDONESi                                                                                                                                   MILtiS 0 t0 20 M0 0o tO
or VW N"h or VW
Area of Map                  |               '         w o
AUSTRAUJA  *4diSLeidw
SEPTEN



Area of       PHtLUPPNES                                             115e                                                                                     d00-                                                                                     jjgo
O6RUNOEt                                                                                                                                                                                                          I NDNES IA
PA A L A Y S I A-                                                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
- x _. _    .        ,                                           ICKAUMAITIM  AND SULAWESI
*KALIMANTAN                   -                      iRUNEVl'  
SULAWESI.
I NIDCONES-4-A-                                                  IRIAN  NAYA                                                                                           j  -                                                                National Wighwa
/                                                                                                                                        P trovince Roaos
jAWA                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - ,ocalRoadL
AlI     Airports
.                                                                                                                                                     -    Province Boundaries
o-                                                                        -               /                                                                                                                      _  . _ Inbmn tional Boundoaries
MALAYS(A  C                                 Ton jungselor
9  Tabi     Tojnjungrep
Liknpaloh
I-00
P's Snrawo                                                         ~. M .                                                                     M.Woh.                                                                             p labh
Putvsibou                                                                                                                                                                                                           J
t~~~ }eoloitonson o . > _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--'  -a
o n g g o uBanton t *Longirom(Bontong                                                                                                                      9bToCg   /
Pnonaionoc  SY005intog K  A    L   I M   A  N  T  A  N                                                                     g
5SX       lMel rs                , ~~~~~~~~Nrganh pinoh  Jk \eoik d,or                                                     _     \      
Puuktokh|                               T,nggorang
ORasoujoyr                             Konuind .                                                                                                                          s \  \  i55Ampooindo osi
Tel. k8tong    Sendg;                                                                                              #Onj'      , Balskpapan
>   'iondrxi   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
\    L   /   .                                                         \     C             P o n S   ff   1101i40pon ACopo Toojong(uoIoog .                                                                                                                    Atono
Ketapong         Nongoh toyap                                                          tuntot 0k     MurGrovySo  .r  J                                                                       Ciin
Sukorejg t                                                    'Polatigkaroya    J   onahgro                      t K.                                                 6             \                                                                                               Or  o
Su                                                                   ngk-  r ya   j       v.                                                                               SULA   FE1                    B, '      k
Kend noaangalnn                                                Sompit       I            =       nbu   (/Ml
:   O P o n g k o l o n b uw t s            1    T u m o u b o h  t s n y u 5   y o s   4                                          m u j u s 
/   t             iomudoX            t~~~~~~~~~utong.ooj"    K)ufntprng    ondoogon  '>                                                Mms     
1100 hew awu,ern~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t~~~'                         e~Kala Ka           *m LkoId
3  BeAt,                           . bowl Kedpu by/                                                               Soo ggteKopo    -Kotaboru
casonewnom of Ome                                                                          hjnoi                       uoii
*.snc eiso0e  rtvy for I4 I,                                                                                                    A         ingon                              Mojene         \o
ueof The Ua SSbnf 8a,
*, b.;wnstione Fkmmne                                                                                      ArPaatn                eb  go
rahwF Taos     afTkionsg                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Knrios_ond
mar di not bTq*. on _tK
I no nr n tltt wo   Ian   am                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ot
lIme WkO00 Bw* end me~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  onnu    rmpt                                                                                 f      Trmo
emtloIy or any5
nrw or sect won, o.
v    ,                    E    A                                                               Pen                                                            I
Ujungpondong               Sijoi
Sunggutnilloso~~~~~~~~~~~o _                Won
0              100             2?003qO                           4W                                                                                  Takolor                  gira                                  ol~opaseo3u > oB
KILOMETERS  *                                                    3I0              4 9                                                                                          o _            Paw
MILES  toas.
0                 ~~~~         ~~~10D  1go   26D           250
gn
110                                                                                    1150                                                                                     1200       60rongborrng                                                                   mS
I                _                                                                                       ,                                                                                                             5EPTEMBI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEB



IBRD
116  118                                               120                                                      1                                                 BRUNEI J                  PHIUPPINES
MALAYSIA         r
INDONESIA                         RIAN.4,
JAWA        AraoMp
L      J~~~T"
,       Aws                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUSTRALU.
NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                    )
TAM/BORA                             R                                                                RSwQ;s u0
PENINSULA                                                                                      FL ORESW                           ang                        KBnI                                          1/
BOyOfl                                                                               /    Xo%Dbuhn Sol                                                                                                "mW           Z       ; _ah/
/ Motoram      Lb.  kg/                                                                                                              long e.
(                                                                                                                                       Bolowo~~~Saon
Lae ho     bh                                                                                                 to
Kvto 
L..yuk   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/Motoarn
PULAU LOMBOK                                      PULAU SUMBAWA                                                                                                                                                                        TIM OR    AtaMb."
NUSA   TENGARA   TIMUR 
Ngu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fmngi 6onul
SUM BA                                                                                                                                                    TIMUR
Ngt,fli                                                                                    KP'if
Toblolng        Iu                 
I N D O N E S I A                                                                                                                                   P. SAWU
4A11ONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
NUSA TENGGARA AND TIMOR                                                                                                                                                                              ROTI
Nifional Highways
Province Roods
Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
1Mg hbBas 0116dJ8
for lie c0once ol an
foodon; enda exakm* , gon s
O                       100                      200                      300 KILOMETERS                                wo   m o ?     a
IWVNBU  no U ,udweo tmeftm
0                  50                  100                  150                 200 hILES                               an _,,mW do o,t.,,e'. at Uh
W of nw 1,0 8W* &Wd to
&W      an  e bt stakb
-'Wt8gf' on ipW
.,drnwof ocoiwce of
16                                                  118                                                    120                                                   122                                                    124
SEPTEMBE



12Y                                                                130' 1I '                                                                                                                              140'tB  21R
MoroIal                                                                                                         INDONESIA
9ouboebare                                                                            NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
- Lop. brWng                                                                                                       IRIAN JAYA AND MAWKU
Sulovvesi                                             . Tobolo
UtorS                    /                         Tb|                                                                                                                             Notionol Highways
/oiblaS                                                                                                                                -   Province Roods
/   ilota    Halmahera                                                                                                               @     Province Capitols
0   Dorlmgo                                                                                                                             Rivers
Province Boundor;es
OWed do                           Wo;goo---  International Boundaries
0*                            IA1h                               / 
P,01;   Monolkwori              8o
Sart nq
(        ~~Subo                                                    (                                                        foe;                           Yapen
ub oi ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Miscl ~
M 6 Pahllo           MALUKU                                                                                                                                              Worumboin
Kckat                                                                                                             Y
Buru ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~>                        ypr
Ai.bi     ~ N-mln          e'
u a   >2 Koi   o   horu              \                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                                  ~      ~     ~~~~Nobire  Kiilo    Dokorewn 
M. o.o      KGiltu y              Senmm
taoh   Amoon                                           \.                                                                                 Pirorn,ioo'~ meno n a
Enurto\     IRIAN        JAYA
5.  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Kai                                                                                                           |        z
Aru                                                                              Wotopko
0          100         210         300         400 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                /  '
0                 1oo                 200          330MILES                                                                                                                                                                (      /     >
flI  I~~~od*  NW"  ~      a.c
r_r..c   Srn4_ dte 70a**    rt
_c~~~~~~oiplE rzanim-                                                                   b 
1215                                                                                                                                                         Muling |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mtn
BRUNEI .HIUPPINES                                                                    r                                                                                                                         !
MALAYSIA                    ___           _\
C  sNGAPOR&E\                                 Area of Mop
KAUMANTAN
SULAWESI                                                                                                                                                                                    Mera
.                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRiAN JAYAjMeok
JAA  BALI   N    NSI
_  - nMQR  AUSTRAUA   j                 130                                                               135'                                                                14
SEPTEMBER 1989



