Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17309
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTTJGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3035-PO
January 12, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E(2UIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Portuguese Escudo (Esc).
I Conto   =    1000 Esc
US$1          Esc.
1988   =    145.0
1989    =    149.8
1990    =    133.6
1991         134.1
1992    =    146.8
1993    =    176.8
1994   =    159.1
1995    =    149.4
1996    =    151.4
January-September 1997    =    174.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC       Agrarian Regional Council
CCAM        Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (Mutual Agricultural Credit
Banks)
CCRN       Comissao de Coordenacao da Regiao do Norte (Coordination
Commission of the Northern Region)
FAO-CP       Cooperative Programme, World Bank/FAO
DGHEA        Direccao Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola
(General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DGRN       Direccao Geral de Recursos Naturales (General Directorate of
Natural Resources)
DRATM        Direccao Regional da Agricultura de Tras-os-Montes (MAPA
Regional office)
EEC/EU       European Economic Community/European Union
EDP      Electricidade de Portugal (Portugal Electricity Company)
ERDF       European Regional Development Fund
FEOGA       European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
FENACAM         Federacao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo
FES      The European Social Fund
GAE       Gabinete de Apoio Empresarial (Office of Entrepreneurial
Support)
GAT       Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Office of Technical Support)
GOP      Government of Portugal
IAPA      Instituto de Apoio a Transforrnacao e a Comercializacao dos
Productos Agro Alimentares (Institute for the Marketing of
Agroindustrial Products)
Vice President                      Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director                   Kenneth G. Lay, ECCO5
Sector Director                    Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Sector Leader                       John Hayward, ECSRE
Responsible Team                    Gottfried Ablasser (ECSRE), Paul Harrison (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDARN       Instituto para o Desenvolvimento da Agricultura da Regiao do
Norte (Institute for the Development of Agriculture in the
Northern Region)
IFADAP       Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da
Agricultura Portuguesa (Portuguese Agricultural Development
Fund)
INIA     Instituto National das Investigacaos Agricolas (National
Agricultural Research Institute)
MAPA       Ministerio da Agricultura, Pescas e Alimentacao
NCC       National Coordination Council
OED       Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank
PAMAF        Programa de Apoio a Modernizacao Agricola e Florestal
(Program for the Support of Agriculture and Forestry
Modernization)
PBI     Participating Banking Institutions
PEDAP       Programa Especifico Europeu para o Desenvolvimento da
Agricultura Portuguese (Special Program for the Development
of Portuguese Agriculture)
PAU      Project Administration Unit
PEU      Project Evaluation Unit
PIDDAC       Programa de Investimentos e Despesas de Desenvolvimento da
Administracao Central (Program of Development Investments
and Expenditures of the Central Administration)
ROP      Republic of Portugal
TOM       Tras-Os-Montes
UTAD       University of Tras-os Montes and Alto Douro
UA      Evaluation Office of UTAD
PORTUGAL FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3035-PO)
Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                                 ii
Evaluation Summary                                                                      iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                                               I
A.    Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives                                         I
B.     Achievement Of Objectives                                                 2
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The Project             3
D.    Project Sustainability                                                    6
E.     Bank Performance                                                         7
F.     Borrower Performance                                                      8
G.    Assessment Of Outcome                                                      8
H.    Future Operation                                                          9
1.     Key Lessons Learned                                                       10
Part Ii. Statistical Tables                                                             11
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments                                                     12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                 13
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                          14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual                        14
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation                                  15
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation                                       15
Table 7: Studies Included In The Project                                            16
Table 8a: Project Costs                                                             17
Table 8b: Project Financing                                                         17
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits                                                18
Table 10: Status Of Legal Convenants                                                20
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements                             22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                              22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                                  22



Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. EU Programs in Portugal
D. Map 21268R



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3035-PO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tras-os-Montes Regional
Development Project in Portugal, for which Loan 3035-PO in the amount of US$90 million equivalent
was approved on April 11, 1989 and made effective on February 20, 1990.
The loan was closed as scheduled on June 30, 1997 and the final disbursement took place on July
11, 1997. Between 1993 and 1997, a total of US$59.29 million was canceled. The project was the last
Bank-financed project completed in Portugal.
The ICR was prepared by Gottfried Ablasser, Rural Development and Environment Unit, Europe
and Central Asia Region, and Paul Harrison (Agricultural Economist), with contributions from Franco
Lucca (Financial Analyst). It was reviewed by Joseph Goldberg and John A. Hayward, Sector Leaders,
Rural Development and Environment Unit, and cleared by Kenneth G. Lay, Country Director (ECC05).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in May 1997. The ICR
is based on the findings of an ICR mission, which visited Portugal in October 1997 and on information
obtained from the project files. The borrower prepared its own assessment of the project performance. A
copy of the Aide-Memoire of the ICR mission is attached as Appendix A. The draft ICR was sent to the
borrower for review on November 12, 1997, but no comments have been received.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3035-PO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I.    This project was a follow-up to the Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project (TMRDP) (Loan
21 75-PO) which had been successfully implemented. It was prepared after Portugal joined the EEC/EU
and it was intended to complement the availability of EU funds in one of Portugal's less developed
regions. In view of Portugal's impending graduation, it was expected to be the Bank's final agricultural
project in the country. The project was appraised during two missions in July and October 1988. The
loan was negotiated in March, presented to the Board in April and signed in October 1989.
Project Objectives
2.    The principal project objectives, which were both relevant and realistic, were the transformation
of agriculture in the Tras-os-Montes (TOM) region into a smaller but more efficient sector, promotion of
value added through an expanded and more entrepreneurial agroindustrial sector, and an improvement in
the regional economy encompassing both growth and a diminution of regional imbalances.
3.    The project included the following components: (a) strengthening of basic agricultural services;
(b) provision of term-credit for modernization of agroindustries and replanting of 5,000 ha of existing
vineyards for Port wine; (c) rehabilitation of 210 small traditional irrigation schemes and construction of
about 16 new medium size irrigation schemes; and (d) construction and rehabilitation of rural
infrastructure. The project was coordinated by a Project Administration Unit under the existing
Coordination Commission for the Northern Region (CCRN) based in Porto.
4.    The broad objectives of the project are being achieved as economic performance for the region
overall has improved. The project itself however made only a limited direct contribution to achieving the
objectives. Total project cost finally amounted to US$95.4 million and absorbed US$30.7 million of
Bank funds compared with the appraisal estimate of US$415.8 million of which the Bank was to finance
US$90.0 million. This was intended to be complementary to some US$210 million of EEC resources.
Through project implementation, however, the expected GOP/EEC expenditures within the project did
not materialize at the rate envisaged at appraisal. Increasing demand by other regions and the decision to
finance certain components by other means resulted in a substantial shortfall in the achievement of the
project's physical objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Agricultural research activities supported under the project were felt to have been reasonably
well implemented, although there were early problems of ineffective linkage between farmers perceived
needs, the research carried out, and extension. Most of the work concentrated on crops well-suited to the
region. The extension component did not operate as originally intended because the availability of



- Iv -
substantial EU grant funds for agricultural development involved extension workers in considerable
administration concerned with project financing.
6.     Credit, which moved slowly under the project from the beginning, was not attractive to the
financial intermediaries. At appraisal, it was agreed that project funds would be on-lent at a rate which
only allowed intermediaries a spread of 1.5%, later adjusted to 2%. This was considered by the financial
intermediaries as being too low. Demand for credit under the project was also much lower than had been
anticipated at appraisal as a result of crowding out by grant funds, persistent drought and high nominal
and real interest rates. In all, 31 subloans were made totaling about US$7.7 million and supportinig
US$21 million of investment. The project financed virtually none of the planned 5,000 ha of Port wine
vineyards. With the credit component moving slowly and its cost to Government being perceived by
Treasury as higher than borrowing from alternative sources, the balance of the credit component (US$27
million) was canceled in 1994.
7.    Irrigation development under the project took place at less than half of the rate planned initially.
Unit costs were high, US$13,300/ha for new medium-sized schemes compared with an appraisal estimate
of US$9,800/ha. None of these medium-sized schemes was in the potentially most productive Terra
Quente zone. Farmers are slow in taking up new irrigation and have not responded well to the
opportunity to change their farming systems to incorporate more intensive cropping patterns. Reasons for
the poor implementation performance are thought to be small sized and fragmented farms, aging farmers,
lack of knowledge of alternative crops and limited commercial opportunities to sell higher value
horticultural crops. Despite this, no problems have been encountered with the collection of user fees for
maintenance. Rehabilitation of traditional schemes totaled 4,549 ha on 104 separate schemes. Average
cost per hectare was about US$1,800 compared with appraisal projections of 10,500 ha on 220 schemes
at US$1,300/ha. Implementation of this component has proceeded satisfactorily and because some sort of
scheme had previously existed, farmers are able to make use of thie irrigation water to improve crop
yields and cropping intensity.
8.    Agricultural roads were constructed at about forty percen t of the rate envisaged at appraisal and
the general impression is that the implementation was satisfactory. The rural electrification program was
implemented as planned in financial terms. At appraisal, it had also been envisaged that the project
would involve park roads, municipal roads, village streets, water supply and sanitation. By the time the
project started, it became clear that these types of investments coLild attract favorable financing under
grant conditions from the EEC/EU using another facility, consequently project funds were not used for
these activities.
9.     Studies financed under the project exceeded appraisal expectations and covered agricultural
research, irrigation project preparation, basic studies and evaluation studies. Agricultural research and
basic studies were mainly carried out by Portuguese academic inslitutions or academic consultants, while
irrigation project preparation work was commissioned from engineering consultants. The evaluation
work focused on relatively narrow subjects selected in agreement with CCRN and DRATM and was not
the comprehensive exercise envisaged at appraisal that would have facilitated a thorough impact analysis
on completion. Nevertheless, both DRATM and CCRN perceived the project as being extremely useful
in the area of studies.
10.   The key and interlinked factors which negatively affected project outcome were: (i) the apparent
lack of GOP commitment to the project as evidenced by its omitting several components completely and
not budgeting investment funds at the levels agreed at negotiations. This resulted in a shortage of
counterpart resources to finance the infrastructure components. Furthermore, even when funds were



budgeted, there were problems with late releases, which resulted in construction slow downs; (ii)
Portugal's accession to the EEC/EU gave it increasing and cheaper access to capital markets, resulting in
Bank money being perceived as expensive. This was clearly a disincentive to GOP to press on with this
project in that by doing so they would have been obliged to draw down more (expensive) Bank funds;
(iii) the lack of Bank and GOP determination to promptly modify the project design once it was realized
that the disbursements were too slow; and (iv) Treasury's refusal to permit financial intermediaries to use
project funds at spreads of more than 2%, which was not sufficient to cover operating costs. Mixing of
EU grant funds with loaned bank funds for infrastructure development when the major share was grant
did not work well. This project's design had been based on an assumption of close cooperation between
the Bank and the EEC/EU which would have required intensive supervision and follow up efforts by the
Government and Bank. Unfortunately this did not happen.
11.   Investment works completed under the project are sustainable. Maintenance of rural roads and
electricity will be handled using systems which are in place. The rehabilitated traditional irrigation
schemes are expected to be correctly maintained because farmers appreciate the value of water and
management of the medium-sized irrigation schemes constructed under the project is still in the hands of
the DRATM which has O&M co-responsibility with WUAs during an eight-year adaptation period.
Farmers are already paying their water charges at rates designed to cover maintenance costs plus a 15%
contribution to capital investment. Given that the schemes are financially attractive to farmers no
problems are foreseen in maintenance. Private commercial investments under the credit component of
the project were for a range of business activities and there is every reason to assume that on average
these would be sustainable.
Bank and Borrower Performance
12.   Bank performance was unsatisfactory. The Bank failed at the project design stage and during
implementation to adequately analyze past experience or apply lessons learned, such as Government's
falling interest in using Bank loan funds, difficulties in blending grant and loan funds, and shortcomings
in the predecessor project in the areas of new irrigation schemes, research and extension, rural credit and
project monitoring and evaluation. The Bank's expectation that the discipline and methodology
associated with a Bank-financed project would promote absorption of EEC grant funds could not be
realized. Failure to adequately assess the country/project environment at appraisal resulted in a sub-
optimal design of the project with too many components, and in an over-sized Bank loan. The Bank
should not have proceeded with the credit component given the inadequate onlending interest margin for
participating financial institutions. Furthermore, poor progress during implementation in the face of the
growing inflow of EU grant funds should have prompted the Bank to greatly restructure and downsize, or
close, the project around 1993-94 rather than simply canceling part of the loan. During implementation
the Bank did not assure staff continuity or provide sufficient budget for the necessary level of
supervision, especially after 1993 when supervision intensity was reduced sharply.
13.   On the borrower's side, project implementation benefited from very competent staff, most of
whom were fully involved from the beginning of preparation and throughout the implementation period.
Nevertheless, borrower performance was less than satisfactory and the principal shortcoming was the
failure to utilize Bank and EU resources in a complementary fashion. The borrower's strategy focused
primarily on maximizing draw down of EU grant funds and their commitment to the project declined
steadily. Deviations from SAR arrangements and formal agreements came without proper project
restructuring, causing implementation problems throughout the project period. Treasury's reluctance to
allow a sufficient internediation margin for local financial institutions was largely responsible for failure
of the credit component. Similar to the Bank, the borrower also did not adequately observe the lessons



- vi -
from earlier projects. The earlier shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation and in effectively applying
research results at the farm level were not adequately addressed under this project.
Assessment Of Outcome
14.   The project took place in an environment where many of it objectives were being achieved, but
largely independent of the project itself. It ended up being far smaller than originally planned and as a
result 66% of the Loan had to be canceled. Growth in regional incomes during the project period means
that people are generally better off now than in 1988 and there has been a quality of life improvement as a
result of better rural infrastructure. Overall, however, the project was seen by CCRN as being less useful
than the predecessor project. An economic analysis at completion has been carried out only for irrigation
investments. The traditional rehabilitation schemes have a good[ likelihood of being economically viable,
but the new irrigation schemes are very unlikely to show acceptable economic rates of return because of
high investment costs, relatively low uptake of irrigation use and the low value crops grown. While
rehabilitation of traditional schemes shows an ERR of about 19%0, the new irrigation schemes show an
estimated ERR of about 1%. The aggregate ERR for irrigation investments, accounting for 42% of project
cost, was 5%. Nevertheless, both types of irrigation are likely to show good financial returns to farmers
because farmers' contribution to investments was low.
15.   With a substantial proportion of the loan canceled, and the final project being only 21% of its
planned size, the project clearly did not turn out as expected. This, coupled with an unacceptable ERR to
irrigation and the relatively poor performances of both Bank and Borrower has resulted in the project
being rated as unsatisfactory.
Future Operation and Lessons Learned
16.   The ongoing program of rehabilitating traditional irrigation schemes and constructing rural
infrastructure was expected to continue at the current pace at least until 1999 under programs supported
by the EU and Government. Future operation related to project activities will be the responsibility of the
concerned agencies in the public and private sectors.
17.   The lessons learned are as follows: (a) Portuguese authorities were near-unanimous in stressing
that Bank loans and EU grants should not be mixed under one project as such practice will inevitably lead
to marginalizing of Bank funds. This experience warrants the co,nclusion that cofinancing arrangements
with a high proportion of grant funds and only a very small proportion of Bank loan funds should be
avoided. Moreover, when a project involves mixed funding from a Bank loan and grants, special care
should be taken to ensure that the recipient intends to utilize both sources of funding in a complementary,
not competing manner. (b) When the loan disbursement percentage is too low, interest in the borrowing
country becomes minimal, as the Bank's requirements for using loan funds are considered not worth the
effort. (c) In the wake of macroeconomic improvements in Portugal in the early 1990s the country gained
access to non-grant financing sources, which the authorities considered to be preferable to World Bank
loan funds. In such an event, early restructuring of the project is desirable. (d) Countries eligible for
utilizing EU structural funds should prepare comprehensive, agreed regional development plans
encompassing the entire target area in the country prior to release of such funds or contracting
complementary financing from other sources. Failure to do so will likely cause subsequent difficulties in
budget planning as shifting political and economic priorities overtake earlier local or regional plans
completed in isolation. (e) Pre-project analysis, especially in countries nearing "graduation" from the
Bank, not only should incorporate experience with predecessor projects, but include a review of the entire
country portfolio in search of signs for borrowers' changes in handling Bank loans and weakening of



- vii -
their ownership and commitment. (f) As identified earlier weaknesses are likely to occur again in repeater
projects, special monitoring instruments and action triggers should be incorporated in the latter as a
precautionary measure and followed closely by supervision missions. (g) Careful review of the likely
economics of investments such as irrigation, should be made on the basis of models or average figures,
prior to contracting detailed design studies, and current Bank practice in this respect should be reviewed.
(h) In line with current Bank practice, credit projects/components should not be approved unless
sufficient demand by sub-borrowers for credit at market interest rates and willingness of financial
intermediaries to participate have been conclusively demonstrated. (i) The Bank should not reduce
supervision intensity in problem projects after the mid-term in anticipation of the nearing Closing Date,
but rather seek rigorous early restructuring or advance closing (consistent with current Bank policy).






PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3035-PO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives
1.1   The principal project objectives were: (i) transformation of agriculture in the Tras os Montes
(TOM) region into a smaller but more efficient sector, principally focused on the most productive areas
of Chavez, Terra Quente and the Douro Valley; (ii) promotion of value added in agriculture through an
expanded agroindustrial sector based on improved processing and marketing and mobilization of
entrepreneurial skills; (iii) achievement of steady economic growth in the region, a reduction of regional
imbalances in employment and an increase of regional family income.
1.2   These objectives were important and realistic. The need to establish a smaller and more efficient
and productive agriculture was clearly recognized by the Government. Because TOM is not a highly
fertile region and does not have an ideal climate, it is inevitable that efficiency improvements imply size
reduction and require focus on the best potential areas within the region. The Project was aimed at
facilitating the integration of TOM's agriculture into the EEC agricultural market by making the best use
of the area's natural resources and comparative advantage.
1.3   The specific focus on agroindustry and improved processing and marketing as a means to raise
value added is well justified, given the parallel improvement in access to the area and the increased
marketing opportunities for TOM products. It was reasonable to expect a far greater Value Added to
Capital Invested ratio from improving the underdeveloped agroindustrial system than from blanket
agricultural investment. Improvement in the agroindustrial marketing and processing sector would
require mobilization of entrepreneurial skills and the provision of capital both of which could be provided
effectively through this type of project.
1.4   Because per capita income in the region was low in Portuguese terms (about 42% of the national
average in 1987) focusing on increasing standards of living and regional income was appropriate.
Furthermore, the increased employment objective is an important element of the policy of revitalizing the
region and halting the trend towards an aging and declining population.
1.5   The project as appraised was quite complex and intended to use the following main components
to address its objectives: (a) strengthening of basic agricultural services (research, extension and
planning) by reorganization, staffing and the provision of equipment and vehicles; (b) provision of term-
credit for (i) modernization of agroindustries and the establishment of private SME agribusiness and
rural service enterprises, to improve input supply, marketing services, and business activity in general;
(ii) replanting of 5,000 has of existing vineyards for Port wine; (c) rehabilitation of 210 small traditional
irrigation schemes and construction of about 16 new medium size irrigation schemes, two of which also
involved water supply; and (d) construction and rehabilitation of rural infrastructure including roads,
water supply and sewerage; electrification and development of national and natural parks.



- 2 -
1.7   This project was a follow-up to the Tras os Montes Rural Development Project (TMRDP) (Loan
2175-PO) which had been successfully implemented and resulted in the rehabilitation of 150 irrigation
schemes, rural roads and municipal streets, class rooms for village schools, and plantation of Port wine
vineyards. There was however a fundamental difference between the two projects - in the first, Bank
financing was directly complementary to GOP resources, while by the time of this project, Portugal was a
member of the EEC and the recipient of heavy funding. Consequently, for most investments under this
project, the main financier was the EEC/EU, using widely applicable grant funds, while the Bank's
project specific loaned resources were essentially top up finance. Given the relative importance and cost
of these resources (over the period of the project, Portugal received some ECU 20 billion of EECIEU
grant finance, compared with US$160 million from the Bank), the key ministries involved with project
implementation focused on optimum use of overall grant resources rather than strict adherence to the
project as designed. While the project objectives were sound, the project design and management
structure did not have the power or influence to ensure that project components were implemented at the
rate which had been intended at appraisal.
B. Achievement Of Project Objectives
2.1    The macroeconomic objectives of the project, which encompass achievement of steady economic
growth in the region, a reduction of regional imbalances in employment and an increase of regional
family income, are being achieved. Economic performance for the region overall has improved. Since
1988, GDP growth for the country as a whole has averaged a respectable 2.7% p.a. and the regional
disparities have been reduced to the extent that TOM's GDP per capita is now more than 50% of the
national figure, up from 42% in 1987. Sector objectives are also largely being met. Agriculture is
becoming more focused, although some of the project irrigation investments were in the less productive
Terra Fria zone, which was not one of the more productive areas defined at appraisal (para 1.1). There
has been ongoing investment in agroindustry in the region, although there is a considerable perceived
need for further commercialization, particularly for higher value crops.
2.2   The project itself however made only a limited direct contribution to achieving the wide ranging
macro economic and sector objectives which it was intended to fulfill, largely because of its final small
size. At appraisal the estimated project investment cost was about Esc. 66.9 billion (US$415.8 million) of
which US$116.6 million represented the foreign exchange component and the Bank was to finance US$
90.0 million. The final project expenditures amnounted to only Esc. 14.3 billion (US$ 95.4 million) The
assumption at appraisal and the agreement reached at negotiations was that EEC resources would finance
51% of project cost. The Bank Loan of US$90 million (22% of project cost) was intended mainly to
complement EEC resources and also to provide resources for agricultural credit. The balance of project
costs were to have been financed: 12% by GOP; 6% by sub-borrowers as equity contribution and 9% by
financial intermediaries. Through project implementation, however the expected GOP/EEC expenditures
within the project did not materialize at the rate envisaged at appraisal. Increasing demand by other
regions and the decision to finance certain items (water and sewage, village streets, municipal roads and
other infrastructure) by other means resulted in much lower levels of project activity and hence a
substantial shortfall in its achievement of its physical objectives.
2.3    The project's physical and financial objectives for private agriculture and agroindustry which
were to r esult from credit were also not met. Only US$21 million of investments were financed by the
US$7.7 million credit, compared with US$153 million (using US$35 million credit) envisaged at
appraisal. As a result, the project financed virtually none of the planned 5,000 ha of Port wine vineyards.



2.4   The project did not have specific environmental, poverty reduction, or social objectives, although
through its support for applied research, particularly for tree crops and rehabilitation of defunct irrigation
schemes and agricultural investment, some of which was job creating, it can be expected to have made a
modest contribution to the environmental status of the region and the level of employment (hence poverty
reduction). The project has contributed in a minor way to public sector management through its
strengthening of agricultural extension and research. It has also had a limited but positive impact on
private sector development through support for the activities of the rural financial cooperatives (CCAMs)
and through strengthening the business support offices (GAEs) in the project area.
2.5    The overall project impact however was much less then expected due to scarcity of counterpart
funds. A smaller then planned, but still significant part of the infrastructure component of the project can
be considered to have happened on account of the Bank loan. Most of the project objectives were
reached nonetheless, because the access of Portugal to the EEC/EU had made flow of capital and increase
in export trade major elements of transformation of the project area.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The Project
3.1    Project Appraisal and Organization. A Bank appraisal mission visited Portugal in July 1988.
Its task was completed by a post appraisal mission in October 1988. The loan was negotiated in March,
presented to the Board in April and signed in October 1989. The responsibility for project coordination
was entrusted to the Project Administration Unit under the existing Coordination Commission for the
Northern Region (CCRN) based in Porto. The project was executed as follows: (i) the Regional
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture (DRATM) was responsible for the agricultural components
(irrigation, vineyards establishment, rural roads and electrification and agricultural services and DRATM
institutional development); (ii) CCRN directly coordinated the rural infrastructure component (municipal
and feeder roads, water supply, sewerage), the strengthening of the enterprise assistance services (GAEs),
and the technical assistance services (GATs); (iii) the agricultural credit component was implemented
through the Central Bank Agricultural Discounting Agency (IFADAP), the Federation of Agricultural
Savings Cooperatives (FENACAM), and individual agricultural savings cooperatives (CCAMs) and
PBIs; and (iv) the University of Tras os Montes and Alto Douro (UTAD) was responsible for project
monitoring and evaluation.
3.2   Implementation indicators and project costs are shown in Tables 5 and 8A, respectively, and a
summary of the implementation experience of individual project components is set out below.
3.3    Agricultural Research supported under the project was felt to have been reasonably successful.
It was largely implemented at six research stations which were expanded under the project but also
involved contracted out studies. The lack of an effective linkage between farmers' perceived needs, the
research carried out, and subsequent extension was identified during early supervision missions and
agreement was reached with DRATM to rectify this. As a result, since 1992 the work has concentrated
on applied research for crops well-suited to the region with the primary focus on chestnuts, almonds and
alternative crops. A specific study on irrigated production was also carried out using international
consultants. A list of the studies carried out on applied agricultural research is given in Table 7.
3.4    Extension Services were supported by the project, although the initial objective of getting
extension staff away from undertaking administrative work and continuing with the implementation of a
T&V system, did not work. The availability of very substantial EU funds for agricultural development
inevitably involved extension workers in considerable administration concerned with project financing.
In line with their position at the time of the PCR for the TMRDP (Loan 21'75-PO), DRATM continued to



-4 -
view the T&V system as inappropriate to the very varied circurnstances of the region. Although funding
flowed to this component, the systemic changes, envisaged at appraisal were not implemented and less
than the planned number of extension workers were recruited. This was in part due to Government's
decision in 1991 that, over time, the extension function would be transferred to the private sector,
particularly cooperatives. The project also strengthened DRATM's co-operative services and enterprise
development centers through providing specialist staff and support such as vehicles.
3.5    Credit which moved slowly under the project from the beginning was not attractive to the
financial intermediaries. At appraisal, it was agreed that project funds would be on-lent to sub-borrowers
at a rate which was 2% below the medium term interest rate and that the financial intermediaries (FIs),
who were taking the commercial risk would receive a spread of 1.5%. This was well below the minimum
acceptable level which the Fls considered to be at least 4%, and Treasury amended its agreements with
them to permit a spread of 2%, by raising the onlending rate to sub-borrowers. As this was still not
adequate the Bank sent a special mission in 1992 to review the situation and as a result Bank management
recommended to Government that a maximum spread of at least 4% should be allowed. This proposal
was not accepted by Government, and so making loans under the project remained unattractive, in
general, to the FIs. It was only in their interest to use project funds for large old clients where
incremental administrative costs would be low, risks negligible and goodwill could be generated.
3.6    Demand for credit under the project was much lower than anticipated at appraisal. Unlike credit
under TMRDP, loans under this project for vineyard development did not also assure the borrower of
additional trade association quota. Furthermore, because credit was typically provided as top-up finance
for projects hoping to receive up to 75% grant finance, potential borrowers were reluctant to slow down
the implementation of their projects or increase the risk of refusal by involving credit. This is because
introducing a credit element would have involved additional review by institutions different from those
responsible for approving grants. Finally the period of credit availability (1990-1993) coincided with
both a period of severe drought and interest rates which were high in both nominal and real terms (about
16.5% nominal and 7% real in 1992).
3.7    Most of the credit disbursed under 31 subloans of the project went for agroindustry, virtually
none went to agriculture. This was probably because (i) the percentage level of EU grant funding to agro
industry was generally lower than to agriculture; and (ii) loan size was larger and so making the loan was
less unattractive to FIs. Agricultural investments supported by the project amounted to under US$1
million, compared with an appraisal estimate of US$93 million. Agricultural loans involved included 12
loans of average size US$23,000 for vineyards, one loan of US$1,200 for almonds and 2 loans of average
size US$I 1,000 for machinery. Agroindustrial investment supported by credit amounted to about US$19
million, compared with an appraisal estimate of US$60 million. Lending comprised 15 loans of average
size about US$350,000 for investments in machinery and other items for processing and packing facilities
including milk, wine, olive oil and chestnuts. Because of the lack of demand for investment credit,
attempts were made to utilize more of the credit line under the project through amending the relevant
agreements so as to allow these funds to be used by producers for the finance of Port wine stocks at a
time when the shippers were reluctant to buy. This move had only limited success, probably because the
increase in world prices of the product in 1993 and the small crops as a result of the recent drought made
it more attractive again for the shippers to buy and so producers avoided needing to take the storage risk
themselves. In the event, one loan of US$1.1 million was made for this purpose.
3.8    With the credit component moving slowly and its cost to Government being perceived by
Treasury as higher than borrowing from alternative sources, the balance of the credit component (US$27
million) was canceled in 1994. Monitoring of the credit component of the project, which the appraisal



-5 -
envisaged would be the responsibility of IFADAP's regional office, was virtually non existent and it was
not possible to review the financial and economic analysis or any other records of the sub-projects
funded. Nevertheless, it is understood that repayment of project credits by the sub-borrowers has been
satisfactory, and at IFADAP headquarters it was confirmed that none of the FIs were in arrears to
IFADAP with regard to this project.
3.9   Irrigation development under the project took place at less than half of the rate planned initially.
A total of about 2,155 ha of land was irrigated on 7 medium-sized schemes compared with a planned
6,350 ha on 18 schemes. Two of the medium-sized schemes (Chaves Block I and Estevainha) were
rehabilitations of existing schemes, totaling 1,240 ha at an average cost per ha of about US$11,000/ha,
including a share of the cost of the new Chaves dam, which is yet to be finished. The five new schemes
constructed under this project totaled 915 ha at an average cost of US$13,300/ha. compared with an
appraisal estimate of US$9,800/ha. These costs were considered to be on the high side for the physical
works involved, possibly resulting from lack of keen competition between potential contractors.
3.10   None of these medium-sized schemes were in the potentially most productive Terra Quente zone.
Reports from the Evaluation Unit which has intensively studied one of the schemes indicates that farmers
are slow in taking up new irrigation and have not responded well to the opportunity to change their
farming systems to incorporate more intensive cropping patterns. At Gostei, which was probably the
worst of the schemes, but the most intensively studied, only about a quarter of the command area was
actually irrigated four years after the system had been completed. Reasons for the poor implementation
perfornance are thought to be small sized and fragmented farms, aging farmers, lack of knowledge of
alternative crops and limited commercial opportunities to sell higher value horticultural crops. Despite
this, no problems have been encountered with the collection of user fees for maintenance.
3.11   Rehabilitation of traditional schemes, totaled 4,549 ha on 104 separate schemes. Average cost
per hectare was about US$1,800 compared with appraisal projections oI 10,500 ha on 220 schemes at
US$1,300/ha. Implementation of this component has proceeded satisfactorily and because some sort of
scheme had previously existed farmers are able to make use of the irrigation water to improve crop yields
and cropping intensity.
3.12   Rural Infrastructure. Agricultural roads were constructed at about forty percent of the rate
envisaged at appraisal (296 km were started, compared with an appraisal estimate of 690 km) and the
general impression is that the implementation was satisfactory. The rural electrification program was
implemented as planned in financial terms, although the number of connections made was 375 compared
with 600 estimated at project appraisal. This difference may represent more farm households per
connection. No statistics were available on this. At appraisal, it had also been envisaged that the project
would involve park roads, municipal roads, village streets, water supply and sanitation. By the time the
project started, it became clear that these types of investments could attract favorable financing under
grant conditions from the EEC/EU using another facility, consequently project funds were not used for
these activities. Nevertheless, implementation of some of these items was undertaken in TOM over the
past eight years, but not as part of this project.
3.13   Studies, Investigation and Evaluation. A total of 62 studies have been financed under the
project. These covered agricultural research (see para 3.3), irrigation project preparation, basic studies
and evaluation studies, including some dealt with under the agricultural research component. A listing is
given in Table 7. Most of the studies were commissioned by DRATM, UTAD and ICBAS. Agricultural
research and basic studies were mainly carried out by Portuguese academic institutions or academic
consultants (with the exception of the irrigation study) while irrigation project preparation work was



- 6-
commissioned from engineering consultants. Virtually all of the evaluation studies were undertaken by
academics associated with UTAD. The evaluation work focused on relatively narrow subjects selected in
agreement with CCRN and DRATM and was not the comprehensive exercise envisaged at appraisal that
would have facilitated a thorough impact analysis on completion. Nevertheless, both DRATM and
CCRN perceived the project as being extremely useful in the area of studies. They felt that without the
project finance (80% was disbursed against these items) such activities would have gone on at a much
lower level. They felt that an important result of this work was a strong build-up of human capital.
Because of this, the size of this component was expanded. Total disbursements against studies and
training (category 5) amounted to US$5.9 million or about 17% of total disbursements, compared to an
initial allocation of US$2 million. Part of this was against US$3.1 million worth of irrigation design
work. It was not possible to make objective assessments of the benefits of the studies overall, although
the areas of applied research focus were appropriate. However in view of the likely non viability of new
irrigation schemes, it is probable that some of the studies on irrigation were not economically beneficial
in that in most cases, it would not be economically worthwhile implementing the study designs.
3.14   The key and interlinked factors which negatively affected project outcome were: (i) the apparent
lack of GOP commitment to the project as evidenced by its omitting several components completely and
not budgeting investment funds (mainly sourced from EEC/EU) at the levels agreed at negotiations. This
resulted in a shortage of counterpart resources to finance the infrastructure components. Furthermore,
even when funds were budgeted (on a calendar year basis), there were problems with late releases, which
resulted in construction slow downs due to resources only becotning available after the autumn rains had
started and the optimum construction season had finished; (ii) Portugal's accession to the EEC/EU gave it
increasing and cheaper access to capital markets, resulting in Bank money being perceived as expensive.
This may have been a disincentive to GOP to press on with this project in that by doing so they would
have been obliged to draw down more (expensive) Bank funds; ,(iii) the lack of Bank and GOP
determination to promptly modify the project design once it was realized that the disbursements were too
slow; and (iv) Treasury's refusal to permit FIs to use project funds at spreads of more than 2%, which
was not sufficient to cover operating costs, meant that Fls were not interested in promoting credit under
the project.
3.15  It appears that mixing of EU grant funds with loaned bank funds for infrastructure development,
where the major share was grant, did not work well in this case. TMRDP, which had been undertaken
earlier with the implementing agency directly benefiting from Bank involvement, worked much better
than this follow up project. This project's design had been based on an assumption of close cooperation
between the Bank and the EEC/EU, whose pledged resources were the main counterpart resources to the
Loan funds. At the time of appraisal, the EEC was preparing a program involving various financing
sources which was expected to cover about 70% of the total investment considered under the project as
supporting Regional Development and Integration. Assuring that these funds and the subsequent
resources made available for 1994-1999 remained available for sustaining the proposed level of
investmnent in TOM would have required intensive supervision and follow up efforts by the Government
and Bank. Unfortunately this did not happen.
D. Project Sustainability
4.1    Despite the fact that the physical impact of the project on rural infrastructure was limited, due to
the reduced investment, the works completed are sustainable. Matintenance of rural roads would be
handled by the municipalities in the same way as infrastructure completed in the former TOM Rural
Development Project, which has proved to be sustainable.



- 7-
4.2    The rehabilitated traditional irrigation schemes are expected to be correctly maintained because
farmers appreciate the value of water and have agreed to contribute to the rehabilitated works. The
expected benefits, resulting from the use of increased quantities of water and from a more agreeable
management (night irrigation is no longer necessary), are sufficiently attractive to convince farmers to
contribute to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the schemes as required through their farmer-run
Water Users Associations (WUAs).
4.3    Management of the medium-sized irrigation schemes constructed under the project is still in the
hands of the DRATM which has O&M co-responsibility with WUAs during an eight-year adaptation
period. Farmers are already paying their water charges at rates designed to cover maintenance costs plus
a 15% contribution to capital investment. Given that the schemes are financially attractive to farmers no
problems are foreseen in maintenance.
4.5    The electrification schemes to link the 30 Kw. national grid to 375 farms or groups of farms were
built to the standards of construction applied in the zone by the National Electricity Power Authority
(EDP) which also maintains the system, paying for it through electricity charges. This component is
therefore sustainable.
4.6    Private commercial investments under the credit component of the project were for a range of
business activities, mainly within the agroindustry sector. Given the sound and expanding economy
overall there is every reason to assume that on average these would be sustainable.
E. Bank Performance
5.1    Bank performance was unsatisfactory. Identification performance is rated as satisfactory because,
in 1987, the weaknesses of the predecessor project and implications of EU accession had not yet become
obvious. But the Bank failed at the project design stage and during implementation to adequately analyze
past experience or apply lessons learned. It had become clear in the 1 980s that there was a change in
Government's handling of Bank loans resulting from the country's accession to the EEC. Loan
disbursement lags began to increase and, during FY84-85, three projects were approved by the Board but
never made effective as Government switched to EEC grants instead. In an earlier report, I it was
concluded that the Bank "overestimated the attractiveness of its own loan resources in a competitive
market". In reviewing the Forestry Project (Loan 1853-PO), OED concluded that blending EU funds
with the Bank loan was inappropriate and the Bank should have initiated closure of the loan. 2 At
completion of the predecessor project, TMRDP (Loan 21 75-PO), some shortcomings were identified
which had a bearing on the performance of this project, including the non-viability of new irrigation
schemes and problems with research and extension, rural credit and project monitoring and evaluation. 3
5.2    The Bank's decision to proceed with this project was based on the relatively satisfactory
performance of the predecessor project at the time of appraisal (October 1988) and the expectation that
the discipline and methodology associated with a Bank-financed project would promote absorption of
EEC grant funds. This judgment failed to take into account that the predecessor project was not
I Report 12022, PCN Housing Finance Project, 1993.
2Report 14508, PAR Forestry Project and Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project, 1995.
3Report 11078, PCR Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project, 1992.



-8 -
cofinanced by EEC grant funds and was mistaken on the point that a Bank project would be beneficial for
absorbing European grant funds.
5.3    Experience with the project warrants the conclusion that failure to adequately assess the
country/project environment at appraisal resulted in a sub-optimal design of the project with too many
components, and in an over-sized Bank loan. It is also clear that the Bank should not have proceeded
with the credit component given the inadequate onlending interest margin for participating financial
institutions allowed by Government. Furthermore, poor progress during implementation in the face of the
growing inflow of EU grant funds should have prompted the Bank to greatly restructure and downsize, or
close, the project around 1993-94 rather than simply canceling part of the loan.
5.4    During implementation the Bank did not assure staff continuity or provide sufficient budget for
the necessary level of supervision, especially after 1993 when supervision intensity was reduced sharply.
Partly for this reason supervision missions were not able to convince Govemment to direct the available
EEC/EU resources specifically for the project. Some doubt must be cast on the justification for the
Bank's approval of several irrigation studies in 1994 considering the findings of the TMRDP ICR in 1992
which had indicated a 2% economic return to new irrigation.
F. Borrower Performance
6.1   Project implementation benefited from very competent staff, most of whom were fully involved
from the beginning of preparation and throughout the implementation period. A significant share of
project achievements is attributable to DRATM's director of agricultural planning. Regional project
management and the municipalities also contributed positively to the project.
6.2   The principal shortcoming on the borrower's side, mainly at the central level, was the failure to
utilize Bank and EU resources in a complementary fashion. The borrower should have promoted the use
of Bank funds for financing of the share of investments not covered under EU programs in order to instill
sound pre-investment analysis and expand overall investments in the region. Instead, the borrower's
strategy seemed to have focused primarily on maximizing draw down of EU grant funds. Deviations
from SAR arrangements and formal agreements came gradually and without proper project restructuring,
causing implementation problems throughout the project period. The curtailment of annual budgetary
appropriations for the project is a prime example of this. Non-establishment of the National Coordination
Council can be interpreted as an indication of diminished borrower interest in the project after appraisal.
In their relations with GOP authorities, Bank staff often found their counterparts non-responsive or very
slow in dealing with important matters. Treasury's reluctance to allow a sufficient intermediation margin
for local financial institutions, reportedly meant to promote greater onlending efficiency, was
counterproductive as it was largely responsible for failure of the ciredit component.
6.3   Similar to the Bank, the borrower also did not adequately observe the lessons from earlier
projects, especially the TMRDP. The earlier shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation and in
effectively applying research results at the farm level were not adequately addressed under this project.
Overall, therefore, borrower performance must be considered as less than satisfactory.
G. Assessment Of Outcome
7.1   The project took place in an environment where many of it objectives were being achieved, but
largely independently of the project itself. It ended up being far snmaller than originally planned and as a
result 66% of the Loan had to be canceled. Growth in regional incomes during the project period means



- 9-
that people are generally better of now than in 1988 and there has been a quality of life improvement as a
result of better rural infrastructure, which was partly project financed.
7.2    As a result of the private sector support, credit and improved rural roads, coupled with much
improved access to the region the project has probably had an impact on generating increased trade.
Considerable build up of human capital has taken place in the region, including at UTAD which benefited
from substantial funding for studies. CCRN has continued to develop its planning and coordination skills
under the project. However, in this last regard, this project was seen by CCRN as being less useful than
TMRDP because the different financing arrangements meant they had less control over the flow of funds.
7.3   Few of the project's investment activities can be objectively assessed in economic terms. Only
the irrigation components, which amounted to about 41% of total project investment have been analyzed
in this way. The traditional rehabilitation schemes have a good likelihood of being economically viable,
but the new irrigation schemes are very unlikely to show acceptable economic rates of return because of
high investment, relatively low uptake of irrigation use and the low value crops grown in the Terra Ftia
zone where most of these schemes are located. While rehabilitation of traditional schemes (8% of total
investment) shows an ERR of about 19%, the new irrigation schemes (33% of project cost) show an
estimated ERR of about 1% (see Table 9). Nevertheless, both types of irrigation are likely to show good
financial returns to farmers, because only 15% of the capital cost is being recovered as a user fee.
Economic returns to the project investments supported by credit (22% of project cost) are unknown, but
given that subloans are apparently being serviced and the economy is doing we'll, they are likely to be
financially viable at least.
7.4    As indicated in paragraphs 4.1-4.6 the main investments under the project are sustainable,
because their cost is now sunk and they are essentially low maintenance.
7.5    With a substantial proportion of the loan canceled, and the final project being only 21% of its
planned size, the project clearly did not turn out as expected. This, coupled with an unacceptable ERR to
irrigation, which was the major investment component, and the relatively poor performances of both
Bank and Borrower, has resulted in the project being rated as unsatisfactory.
H. Future Operation
8.1    Although no World Bank funds were committed after December 31, 1996, project operations
continued with financing from other sources. The Chavez irrigation scheme, Block Il, is being completed
with EU and government funding, but approval had not been given for starting other new irrigation
schemes. Rural electrification schemes that had been started but not completed by December 1996 were
completed during 1997 with EU and local sources of finance. The ongoing program of rehabilitating
traditional irrigation schemes and constructing rural infrastructure was expected to continue at the current
pace at least until 1999 under PAMAF and other EU-supported programs.
8.2   Future operation related to project activities will be the responsibility of the concerned agencies
in the public and private sectors. The Project Administration Unit in CCRN continues to operate with
other task assignments in the Northern Region.



-10-
I. Key Lessons Learned
9.1    The lessons learned from this project can be summarized as follows:
* Portuguese authorities were near-unanimous in stressing that Bank loans and EU grants should not be
mixed under one project as such practice will inevitably lead to marginalizing of Bank funds. This
experience warrants the conclusion that cofinancing arrangements with a high proportion of grant
funds and only a very small proportion of Bank loan funds should be avoided. Moreover, when a
project involves mixed funding from a Bank loan and grants, special care should be taken to ensure
that the recipient intends to utilize both sources of funding in a complementary, not competing
manner.
*  When the loan disbursement percentage is too low, interest in the borrowing country becomes
minimal, as the Bank's requirements for using loan funds are considered not worth the effort.
*  In the wake of macroeconomic improvements in Portugal in the early 1990s the country gained
access to non-grant financing sources, which the authorities considered to be preferable to World
Bank loan funds. In such an event, early restructuring of the project is desirable.
D Countries eligible for utilizing EU structural funds should prepare comprehensive, agreed regional
development plans encompassing the entire target area in the country prior to release of such funds or
contracting complementary financing from other sources. Failure to do so will likely cause
subsequent difficulties in budget planning as shifting political and economic priorities overtake
earlier local or regional plans completed in isolation.
* Pre-project analysis, especially in countries nearing "graduation" from the Bank, not only should
incorporate experience with predecessor projects, but include a review of the entire country portfolio
in search of signs for borrowers' changes in handling Bank loams and weakening of their ownership
and commitment.
* As identified earlier weaknesses are likely to occur again in repeater projects, special monitoring
instruments and action triggers should be incorporated in the latter as a precautionary measure and
followed closely by supervision missions.
* Careful review of the likely economics of investments such as irrigation, should be made on the basis
of models or average figures, prior to contracting detailed design studies, and current Bank practice
in this respect should be reviewed.
* In line with current Bank practice, credit projects/components should not be approved unless
sufficient demand by sub-borrowers for credit at market interest rates and willingness of financial
intermediaries to participate have been conclusively demonstrated.
* The Bank should not reduce supervision intensity in problem projects after the mid-term in
anticipation of the nearing Closing Date, but rather seek rigorous early restructuring or advance
closing (consistent with current Bank policy).



- 11 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included In The Project
Table 8A: Project
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits
Table 10: Status Of Legal Convenants
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



-12-
Table 1: Summary of Asses,sments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         N     glbile  Not applicable
(/)             (/)              (V)
Macro Policies                      El               E                n [
Sector Policies                     E             .                   E l
Financial Objectives                El                                El                 El
Institutional Development          I                I                 I3                 1
Physical Objectives                 E               E3                                   El
Poverty Reduction                   El               E                 0                 El
Gender Issues                       E                E                El
Other Social Objectives             E               E                 El                 E
Environmental Objectives            E                0                E                  E
Public Sector Management             ]                                [J 0]
Private Sector Development          E                !;                                 111a
Other (specify)                                     n                 n E
B. Project Sustainabilitv             Likely                    Unlikelv                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performnance                 satisfactor             'Satisfactory                Deficient
(.1                       (1)                        (1)
IdentificationEll
Preparation Assistance              El                        El                         inue
AppraisalEll0
Supervision                          El                       E
(continued)



- 13 -
Hfighly
D. Borrower Performance           satisfactory             Satisfactorv              Deficient
Preparation                        a]
Implementation                                            El Ei
Covenant Compliance               E
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactorv    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose                   Year of Approval          Status
Preceding operations
Tras-Os-Montes Rural    Integrated rural development         1982             ICR issued
Development Project
(Loan 2175-PO)
Following operations
N/A



- 14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (FAO/CP)                          09/87                09/87
Preparation                                      03/88                06/88
Appraisal                                        10/88                 10/88
Negotiations                                     03/89                 03/89
Board Presentation                               04/89                04/89
Signing                                          08/89                08/89
Effectiveness                                    12/89                02/90
Project Completion                               06/97                 06/97
Loan Closing                                     06/97                 06/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    iFY94    FY95          FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate   11,400   23,900   36,700   49,700   63,700    77,700    85,000   90,000
Actual              1,000    5,500   11,000   14,100   20,000    28,900    29,600    30,707
Actualas%  of       8.7     23.0     30.0      28.4     31.4     37.2      34.8      34.1
estimate
Date of final disbursement: July 11, 1997.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Item                         1990   1991       1992     1993      1994       1995     1996
Irrigation Rehabilitation
Cumul.
SAR schemes (no)               30      60        90        120       150       180       210
Actual (no)                    11      29        51        65        82        97        104
SAR (ha)                      1,500   3,000     4,500     6,000     7,500     9,000     10,500
Actual (ha)                    363    1,278    2,002      2,753     3,518     4,079     4,549
Medium-Sized Irrigation
Schemes
SAR (no) cumulative            2        5         7        10        12        15         16
Actual (no)                     -       -         2        2          4         6         7
SAR (ha) cumulative           600      820      2,180     3,140     3,780     4,740     6,360
Actual (ha)                     -       -         -       1,170     1,740     1,845     2,155
Rural Roads
Sar (Km)                      100      200       300      400        500       600       690
Actual (km)                    88      106       117       180       220       232       297
Rural Electrification
SAR connections (no)           100     200       300      400        500       600       600
Actual (no)                    na       na       na        na        na        na        375
Credit
SAR ($ million Disbursement)           10.0     15.0      20.0      25.0      30.0       35.0
Actual Disbursed ($ million)   0.6     0.6       1.7       5.3       7.1       7.5       7.5
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific indicators have been established for Project Operation.



- 16-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Subject                Number of         Year       Agency Responsible
Studies        Initiated
Applied Agricultural Research
Global research study                  1             1992      Prof. da Silva
Chestnuts                              6            1990-94    DRATM, UTAD
Almonds                                6            1990-93    DRATM, INIA
Cereals                                1             1992      UTAD
Production systems                     2            1993-94    DRATM, UTAD
Alternative crops                      2             1992      DRATM
Irrigated production                   1             1992      DRATM/Tahal
Irrigation Project Preparation Studies
Schemes studied and implemented        4            1990-92    DRATM
(3250 ha)
Schemes studied but not yet            3            1993-95    DRATM
implemented (2300 ha)
Basic Studies
Aquaculture                            5             1990      ICBAS, IZAN
Wood and forests                       2             1990      UTAD, CFVR
Agroindustries                         5            1990-93    CCAM, ICBAS,
DRATM, ACIL,
UTAD
Evaluation Studies
Douro viticulture                      3            1991-95    UA-UTAD
Oliviculture                           1             1994      UA-UTAD
Improving traditional irrigation       4            1994-95    UA-UTAD
New irrigation/water user              16           1992-97    UA-UTAD
associations
Details on studies undertaken under the project are presented in the Fifth Progress Report, Porto, December
1996.



- 17-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
Ag Extension & Research I/        10.3    2.2      12.5         3.9      0.8      4.7
Credit - Agriculture              50.0    43.4    93.4          0.4      0.4      0.8
Credit - Agroindustry/Port Stocks  40.1    19.7    59.8         13.6     6.7      20.3
Traditional Irrigation (Rehab)    12.4     1.4     13.8         7.2      0.8      8.0
Medium-sized Irrigation Schemes   45.0    17.6    62.6          22.6     8.8      32.4
Feeder Roads                      53.5    12.6    66.1          9.2      2.2      11.4
Municipal Roads                   30.6     7.2     37.8          -        -        -
Water & Sewerage                  33.8     6.9     40.7          -        -        -
Rural Electrification             0.6      7.8      8.4         8.2      0.6      8.8
Regional Project Management       11.8    4.0      15.8         3.3       1.1     4.4
Support for Coop Credit System     1.9     0.6      2.5         0.9      0.3      1.2
Studies                           2.0      0.5      2.5         3.7      0.9      4.6
Total                            299.2   116.6   415.8          72.9    22.5      95.4
1/ Includes some studies also.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
IBRD                               -      90.0    90.0          8.2      22.5     30.7
EEC (EU)                         186.5    26.6    213.1         49.4      -       49.4
GOP                               49.0      -      49.0         11.3      -       11.3
Commercial Financing Sources      40.8      -      40.8         0.8       -       0.8
Sub-borrowers                     22.9      -      22.9         3.2       -       3.2
Total                            299.2   116.6   415.8          72.9    22.5      95.4



- 18 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR estimated economic rates of return for a number ef models, including replanting
vineyards, traditional irrigation rehabilitation, new irrigation and agroindustry (olive oil
processing and winery modernization). Rates of return for both irrigation rehabilitation, and new
irrigation on medium-sized schemes have been re-estimated. As there was no significant
replanting of vineyards under the project, this model has not been re-examined. Although there
was investment in agro-industry, accurate data on the types of investment and performance of
sub-borrowers was not available to the mission, so no attempt was made to quantify the likely
economic rate of return of that component.
In re-assessing the ERR of new irrigation investment, the appraisal model most relevant to the
irrigation implemented under the project was updated, using actual average investment costs for
new medium-sized schemes, converted to constant 1997 prices (using the CPI as a deflator) and
estimates of agricultural input and output prices, based on 19,97 levels. The schemes were
assumed to have a 25 year life. A separate model was prepared for traditional irrigation
rehabilitation, based on current practice, also using average real costs for investment.
Traditional rehabilitation schemes were assumed to have a 15 year life and cropping on the
rehabilitated area was assumed to be 40% potatoes, and 60% traditional cereals. Results were as
follows:
SAFR, ERR      ICR ERR
Type of Investment
Medium -Sized New Irrigation Schemes    13%            1%
Rehabilitation of Traditional Schemes  20%             19%
Agro - Industry (average)              26%             n.a.
The medium-sized new irrigation scheme model shows an unacceptable rate of return, estimated
at 1%. One of the main reasons for this poor economic result was high investment cost per
hectare (about US$13,000 - or US$16,000 in 1997 constant currency terms) - more than 30%
above the appraisal estimate in real termns. This level of investment implies that incremental net
economic output per ha of around US$2,500 would be required to give an ERR of 12%, a figure
which would require a significant proportion of high value crops (e.g. soft fruit, salads or other
horticultural products) in the rotation. However the irrigation undertaken by the project was not
generally in intensively cropped zones. Consequently the systems followed were relatively low
output, with potatoes being the main intensive crop. Furthermore, the adaptation to irrigation
was slow. Finally, since appraisal, there has also been a consiclerable adverse price squeeze,
with the incremental economic benefits from the model measured in real terms in 1997 prices
being only 24% of what they had been when measured in 1988 prices in the SAR.
Economic results from the medium-sized rehabilitation schemes are likely to be similar to those
of the medium sized new schemes. Investment cost per ha averaged about 17% lower on
average, but the 'Without Project' situation was likely to have been better than for new schemes
which would probably have resulted in lower incremental benefits at full development, but
possibly a faster adaptation rate. Sensitivity analysis indicates an ERR likely to be in the range -
1% to +3%. As a guide, therefore the new medium-sized scheme model is taken as a reasonable
proxy for all types of medium sized scheme.



- 19-
Rehabilitation of traditional schemes, which cost, on average US$1,800 per ha is estimated to
show an adequate economic rate of return of 19%, despite the relatively low output systems
followed. Incremental benefits necessary for these to show adequate economic returns would be
about US$250 per hectare net or the equivalent of about two tons of cereals, which under the
conditions, should be readily achieved.
Overall, the weighted average economic rate of return from project irrigation investment is about
5%. Irrigation representented about half of total project investment (excluding Agricultural
Services and Institutional Strengthening).
Financial returns to farmers from irrigation are attractive, because they only bear a small portion
of the investment cost, which is factored into their water charges. The estimated per hectare
impact on farmers' incomes, based on the assumption that labor is provided unpaid by farmners
themselves or their families is summarized below.
Medium-Sized New Irrigation    Traditional Irrigation
Rehabilitation
US$          '000 Esc.         US$         '000 Esc.
With Project Net          1,400           245             897            157
Income/ha
Without Project Net        611             107            394            69
Income/ha
With Project Return        30              5.2            26             4.6
per Man-Day
Without Project            18              3.1            15             2.6
Return per Man Day
Details of the assumptions made and calculations for these models are available in the Project
File.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree              Covenant  Present   Original                       Description of Covenant                               Comments
ment    Section     Type      Status  Fulfillment
Date
Project   2.02 (a)     05        C                CCAMs and PBIs selected for lending to be sound banking institutions.  Confirmed.
2.02 (b)    02         C                IFADAP to refinance CCAMs and PBls for amounts not exceeding 90% of
subloan, and for periods not to exceed 15 years with 6 of grace for vineyards
and 9 and 4 for agroindustry.
2.03       02        C                CCAMs and PBIs to maintain seperate accounts for project subloans and
CCAMs to have accounts audited by FENACAM.
2.04       02        C                IFADAP to perform its obligations in accordance with agency agreement.
3.01 (a)    01         C                IFADAP to maintain accounting records.
3.01 (b)    01         C                IFADAP to have its accounts, including project accounts audited by external
auditors and make audit reports available to Bank.
Sch.A2      02        C                 Support applications for subloans to agroindustries and vineyards over 15 ha
with feasibility studies,proving technical and financial viability, FRRs over
13% and compliance with envioronmental regulations.
Sch.A4      02        C                First 3 subloans over $50,000 and any subloan over$2 million to be submitted
to Bank for approval.
Sch.B1     02        C                Subborrowers to contribute at least 15% of investment project cost.
Sch.B2      09        C                 Subborrowers to carry out projects and ensure loan operations as consistent
with sound business practices, and provide collaterals or mortgages as
necessary.
Loan       3.01        03       CP    09/30/1989 Borrower to make available to IFADAP credit funds equivalent to $35m.  Canceled in part.
IFAD  L "tGeend funds to CCAMs and PBIs under loan agreement.
3.02       05       CD    09130/1989 DRATM to prepare first year extension training program.
3.03       05        C     12/31/1989 Borrower to enter a project evaluation contract agreed by CCRM and
DRATM, and establish project evaluation unit.
3.04 (a)    05         C     12/31/1989 Borrower to cause DRATM to develop applied research priorities under part D  Initial prioritization was done,
and review research progress by 6/30 every year, and to designate institutions  followed by irregular reviews.
to carry out research and studies under parts G(l) and G(2).
3.04 (b)    05        CP                Cause CCRN to develop priority studies under part G(3).
3.05       09        CP    06/30/1900 Borrower to review performance of extension service.               Only two surveys were
undertaken.
3.06       02        C                Borrower to see that water charges for investment (L.D.817.88) and O&M
(L.D.269/92) are applied and that water sewerage tariffs (L.D. 100/84) and
electricity tariffs (L.D.344.A/82) are applied.
3.06       10        C                DRATM to form new water users association (L.D.269.82).            Done
3.07 (b)     10       CP                DRATM to see that new irrigation schemes above 200 ha have ERR above    Targets not realized.
12% and below 200 ha have a cost per ha below $13,000 and that new dams
are built in accordance with safety regulations (L.D.48373/68).



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
3.08        10       NC    12/31/1990 Borrower to carry out a study to strengthen CCAMs system.            Study not completed because
CCAMs reorganized themselves
3.10        10        C                Procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.01        01        C     06/30/1991 Borrower to have records of expenditures and accounts including the special   Carried out by FENACAM.
account (Sch.5) outlined, and make available to the Bank audit reports
including extemal autitor's opinion.
Sch.5 IIB     10       CP                PAU to assure project supervision including preparation of annual work  Five progress reports prepared.
programs, keeping and disclosure of accounts, preparing semiannual progress
report.
Sch.511D     04        NC                Project coordinator to convene once a year National Coordination Council.    NCC not established.
Sch.511E     05         C                Agrarian Regional Council to meet three times per year to ensure Regional
Institutional participation and coordination.
Sch. 5 IIIA   09        CP                DRATM through irrigation unit to supervise implementation of irrigation  Done, but with inadequate
program.                                                            attention to economics.
Sch. 5 IIIC   09         C                DRATM to supervise implementation of infrastructural works.
Sch. 5111D    10         C                DRATM with IDARM assistance to develop research priorities and carry out
applied research.
Sch. 51IIE    10        NC                DRATM to prepare annually: (a) regional extension program including  No formal programming.
training; (b) agricultural research strategy including linkage between research
& extension; (c) pilot extension schemes at Lactimontes & the seed potatoes
union.
Sch. 5111F    05        C                 DRATM to srengthen own organization; CCRM to strengthen GAEs and    Hired 49 persons for extension
GATs and regional offices of CCAMs.                                service and support units.
Sch. 5111G    10        C                 DRATM to assure carrying out of irrigation, agricultural and other studies
envisaged under project.
Covenant types:                                                                         Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                       8. = Indigenous people                       C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
from beneficiarie                       10. = Project implementation not covered by  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds    categories 1-9                            NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                    I 1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or     other resource allocation
executing agency                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                  regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement               13. = Other



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Opesrational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$      Weeks        US$            Weeks      US$
Through Appraisal         20.0    60,000                                   20.0        60,000
Appraisal-Board           18.3    81,000                                   10.0        30,000
Board-Effectiveness       17.5    49,000                                     5.0       15,000
Supervision               73.0   144,000                                   49.5       155,800
Total             128.8   334,000                                   84.5       260,800
Table 13: Bank Resources: IMissions
S   Performance Rating     Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/ No. of  Days  Specializationl   Implem.   Developm. Problems3
Year  Persons   in                      status     objectives
Field
Through appraisal      10/88      3      20   F, E, N
Appraisal-Board        04/89      1            F
Supervision 1          04/90      4      10   F, I, Al             1            1
Supervision II         03/91      1       9   I                    2           2          F
Supervision III        10/91      3       9   1, A, Al             3            3         F
Supervision IV         03/92      2      10  1, C                  3            3         F
Supervision V          02/94      1       8   I                    3           2          F
Supervision VI         06/95      1       4   F                    3           3          F
Supervision VII        06/96      1       3   F                    3            3         F
Supervision VIII       09/96      1       3   F                    3           2          F
Supervision IX         05/97      1       5   F                    3           2          F
Completion             10/97      2       9   E, AE
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  A = Agriculturist         3 - Key to Types of Problems:
AE = Agricultural Economist     C = Credit Specialist            F = Financial
E = Economist                                                   T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst   2 - Key to Performance Ratings:         M = Managerial.
N = Marketing Specialist        I = Minor problems
I = Irrigation Engineer        2 = Moderate problems
Al = Agroindustry Specialist    3 = Major problems



APPENDIX A
Page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3035-PO
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, comprising Mr. Gottfried Ablasser, ECSRE, and Mr. Paul
Harrison, consultant, FAOCP, visited Portugal from 15 October to 24 October 1997 to undertake
an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission. The objective of the mission was to
review the project progress through to loan completion and to collect data for the evaluation of
achievements and shortcomings of the project, including the re-estimation of economic and
financial returns to investments and assessment of the sustainability of project benefits. The
mission was accompanied by Eng. Gusmao of DRATM and Mr. Carlos Lima of the CCRN. It
visited a number of project financed investments, the project evaluation unit, and the main
offices of DRATM in Mirandela. Discussions were also held with the President of CCRN in
Porto, IFADAP in both Vila Real and Lisbon and Treasury in Lisbon. During the course of the
mission, the Plan of Operations for the future of the Project was discussed with the various
implementing agencies (copy attached). This aide-memoire summarizes the views of the
mission and the borrower on the various elements of the project.
2.    Of the original loan amount, US$90 million, only US$30.7 million were dispersed, with
the remainder being canceled. Reasons for the low utilization of funds were (i) availability of
cheaper alternative funds from the European Union, (ii) lack of counterpart finance available to
support the, perhaps unrealistically large, development program, and (iii) limited demand for the
credit component because of (a) unattractive spreads to the financial intermediaries and (b) the
availability of grant finance to beneficiaries. A brief summary of individual project components
is set out below.
3. Agricultural Research was successfully supported under the project, concentrating largely on
applied research for crops well-suited to the region at six research stations.
4. Extension Services were supported by the project, although the initial objective of getting
extension staff away from undertaking administrative work and continuing with the
implementation of a T&V system, did not work. The very substantial availability of
European funds for agricultural development inevitably involved extension workers in
substantial administration concerned with project financing. In line with their position at the
time of the PCR for the TMRDP (Loan 2175-PO) DRATM continued to view the T&V
system as inappropriate to the very varied circumstances and the advanced nature of the
farmers of the region. Strengthening of DRATM's co-operative services and enterprise
development centers was affected through staff recruited under the project.
5. Credit which moved slowly under the project from the beginning was not attractive to the
financial intermediaries due to a spread of 2% compared with a minimum acceptable level of
at least 4%. Furthermore, because credit was typically provided as top-up finance for



APPENDIX A
Page 2
projects hoping to receive up to 75% grant finance, potential borrowers were reluctant to
slow down the project implementation or increase the risk of project refusal by involving a
credit hurdle which was reviewed by different institutions than those responsible for
approving grants. Attempts were made to utilize more of the credit line under the project
through allowing these funds to be used by producers for the finance of Port Wine stocks at
a time when the shippers were reluctant to buy. This move had only limited success,
probably because the increase in world prices of the product in 1993 made it more attractive
again for the shippers to buy and so producers avoided needing to take the storage risk
themselves. With the credit component moving slowly and its cost to Government being
perceived by Treasury as higher than borrowing from alternative sources, the balance of the
credit component (US$24 million) was canceled in 1994.
6. Irrigation development under the project took place at less than half of the rate planned
initially and the cost per hectare irrigated was substantially higher than estimates made at
appraisal. While the rehabilitation of traditional schemes, typically costing about US$1,800
per hectare has a good likelihood of being economically viable, the new irrigation schemes
have cost on average about US$13,000 per hectare and are very unlikely to show acceptable
economic rates of return. Both types of activity are likely to show good financial returns to
farmers, however, as only 15% of the capital cost is supposed to be recovered.
7. Rural Infrastructure. Agricultural roads were constructed at about 40% of the rate envisaged
at appraisal and the general impression is that the implementation was satisfactory. The
rural electrification program was also implemented as planned in the financial terms,
although the number of connections made was 375 compared with the projected 600 at
project appraisal. This difference may represent more farm households per connection. No
statistics were available on this. At appraisal, it had also been envisaged that the project
would involve municipal roads, village streets, water supply and sanitation. By the time the
project started, it became clear that more favorable financing was available for these under
grant conditions from the European Union and so project funds were not used for these
activities.
8. Studies. Investigation and Evaluation. DRATM and CCRN perceived the project as being
extremely useful in this area. It provided 80% financing for studies and evaluations,
including detailed planning of irrigation schemes and applied research. They felt that
without the project finance, such activities would have gone on at a much lower level and
that one result of this work was a strong build-up of human capital. From the Bank
mission's standpoint, the size of this component which, ex post, became 20% of the loan,
was unusual because most Bank clients tend to prefer to use bilateral or other "softer
financial" sources for these kinds of activities. It was not possible to make objective
assessments of the benefits of the studies, although the areas of focus were appropriate.
However in view of the likely non viability of new irrigation schemes, it is probable that
some of the work in that area was not economically beneficial.
Implementation and Major Factors affecting the Project
9.    Implementing agencies handled the project effectively and as perceived at appraisal, the
reasons for the project being considerably smaller than originally envisaged were (i) the lack of
availability of resources for the infrastructure-type investments from EU and domestic sources
and (ii) the lack of demand for medium-term credit, partly because of lack of incentives for on-



APPENDIX A
Page 3
lending Bank funds, but also due to the crowding out by the grant finance. With the benefit of
hindsight, it appears that the size of the infrastructure and irrigation components was too large
given the competition for EU funds from other regions within the country.
Project Sustainability
10.   Activities undertaken under the project are generally sustainable. While they were not
economically viable, the irrigation investments give good financial returns to farmers so they are
likely to continue to be maintained and operated. The road components are expected to be
adequately maintained by the municipalities and the on-farm and agro-industrial investments are
generally financially viable and so are likely to continue as going concerns.
Overall Project Rating
11.   Because the project was only partially implemented and one of its major comnponentsg
new irrigation schemes, is economically non-viable, the overall project rating is unsatisfactory.
Attempting to use borrowed World Bank finance in parallel to very substantial grants from the
European Union, can cause implementation difficulties. It is clear that Portugal made an
objective decision to try to maximize the inflow of European Union funds during the project
period and, to some extent, these squeezed out borrowed Bank finance.
Attachment - Plan of Project Operations
Lisbon, October 23, 1997



APPENDIX A
Page 4
Attachment to Appendix A
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3035-PO)
Plan of Project Operation After December 31, 1996
A. Project Objectives
1.    The objective of the project was to make agriculture in the region more efficient and to
increase rural family incomes.
B. Achievements to Date
2.     Several components of the project were not implemented or were carried out with other
funding. The rural credit component was partially implemented before being canceled in 1994.
The other components achieved about half of their physical targets as project investments were
sharply curtailed compared with SAR expectations, while the studies program was expanded
during implementation. Overall, only 34% of the loan was utilized.
C. Implementation Plan
3.    As the project was implemented by government line agencies, continued operation of
project facilities is assured as part of the agencies' normal operations.
4.    Agricultural research. Research activities by DRATM  will continue, with a special
focus on chestnuts and almonds.  The research budget will be cofinanced under the
PAMAF/INTERREG programs in the next couple of years.
5.    Agricultural extension. The extension system under DRATM has reverted to a less
structured format, emphasizing the delivery of advisory services to farmers on demand. A
significant share of extension staff time in the medium term will be devoted to providing
assistance in the utilization of EU funds--contrary to original project objectives as administrative
duties of extension agents were to be reduced. Staff strength is expected to be maintained at
current levels under regular funding of the Ministry of Agriculture. The six training centers will
be used by DRATM and also made available to other users for a fee.
6.    Irrigation. As of December 1996, one new scheme--Chavez Block II--was just starting
to be implemented. About 1.4 million contos (US$8.75 million) will be required for completion,
of this (including the assocciated dam which will serve Chavez Block I also) with financing
under the PAMAF program. Three new schemes have been prepared, but financing for
implementation has not yet been approved and is expected only after careful review of the
schemes' economic viability. Rehabilitation of traditional schemes will continue with EU funds.
Operation and maintenance (O&M) of traditional schemes is the responsibility of Water User
Associations (WUAs), which generally operate satisfactorily. In the case of new schemes
constructed under the project, DRATM has O&M co-responsibility with WUAs during an eight-



APPENDIX A
Page 5
year adaptation period. The main focus of DRATM will be to assist in the conversion to
irrigated farming and increase utilization of the irrigation facilities by farmers.
7.    Rural roads. The 55 km of rural roads still under construction when World Bank
funding ended are being completed by the municipalities with funds (187,000 contos; US$1.2
million) from their regular budget. The rural road construction program generally is continuing
with support from the PAMAF program. Road maintenance is undertaken satisfactorily by the
municipalities.
8.    Rural electrification. The 34 unfinished project rural electrification schemes, requiring
an additional 90,000 contos (US$0.5 million), are being completed by EDP. The rural
electrification program is continuing with support from the PAMAF program.






APPENDIX B
Page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3035-PO
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by the
Coordination Commission for the Northem Region (CCRN)



APPENDIX B
Page 2
COMISSAO DE COORDENA;, AO DA REGIAO DO NORTE
(CCRN)
PROJECT OF INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT OF
TRAS-OS-MONTES
- (PDRITM I)
(LOAN 3035 - PO)
PORTUGAL
Implementation Completion Report
AugustIl997



APPENDIX B
Page 3
ABBREVIATIONS
CCAM's         Caixas de Credito Agrfcola Mutuo
Mutual Agricultural Credit Banks
CCRN           Comissao de Coordena,co da Regiao do Norte
Co-ordinating Commission of the Northern Region
CE             Comunidade Europeia
European Community
DRATM          Direccao Regional da Agricultura de Tras-os-Montes
Regional Direction of Trds-os-Montes Agriculture
EDP            Electricidade de Portugal
Portugal Electricity company
EP             Estado Portugues
Portuguese Government
FENACAM        Federac,ao das Caixas de Crddito Agrfcola
Federation of the Agricultural Credit Banks
GAE's          Gabinetes de Apoio Empresarial) of the region
Departments for Enterprising Support
GAT's          Gabinetes de Apoio Tecnico
Technical Support Departments
ICP            Institui,ces de Credito Participantes
Participating Credit Institutions
IFADAP         Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura Portuguesa
Financial Institute for the Support to the Development of the Portuguese Agriculture
PAC            Poliftica Agrfcola Comum
Common Agricultural Policy
PAMAF          Prograrna de Apoio a Modemiza,co Agrfcola e Florestal
Programme for the Support of the Agricultural and Forest Modernization



APPENDIX B
Page 4
PDRITM I        Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado de Tirs-os-Montes (IS fase)
Projecto of Integrated Rural Development of Trds-os-Montes (Ist phase)
PDRITM II    Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado de Trds-os-Montes (28 fase)
Projecto of Integrated Rural Development of Trds-os-Montes (2nd phase)
PEDAP           Programa Especifico Europeu para o Desenvolvimento da Agricultura Portuguesa
Specific European Programme for the Development of the Portuguese Agriculture
PIDDAC          Programa de Investimentos e Despesas de Desenvol vimento da Administragao Central
Programme of Investments and Expenses of Development of the Central Administration
SAR             Relat6rio tdcnico de avaliaqao
Staff Appraisal Report
UA              Unidade de Avaliaq5o
Evaluation Unit
UAP             Unidade de Administracao do Projecto
Unit for the Administration of the Project
UTAD            Universidade de Trds-os-Montes e Alto Douro
University of Trds-os-Montes e Alto Douro
XWB             Banco Mundial
World Bank



APPENDIX B
Page 5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
PROJECT OF INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT OF
TRAS- OS - MONTES - 2nd PHASE (PDRITM II)
(LOAN 3035 - PO)
A. OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
1.  As a consequence of the good results achieved by the carrying out of the 1st phase of the
Project of Integrated Rural Development of Tras-os-Montes (PDRITM  I) that took place
between 1983 and 1989, the Portuguese Government (EP) decided together with the World
Bank (WB), to make a new loan in the amount of 90 million dollars for the partial financing
of the 2nd phase of the PDR1ITM (PDRITM It). The remaining financing of the Project was
the result of several sources - The State Account, Private Investment and Cormmunity Funds -
the importance of these ones in the global amount to be invested, must be emphasized.
2.  The PDRITM  II, the execution of which occurred between 1990 and 1996, had as its main
goal the development of the region, particularly the improvement of life conditions and the
settling  of the rural population  of Tras-os-Montes, through  structural adaptations in
agriculture, the diversity of rural economy and the strengthening of the agricultural sector, as
well as the agricultural-industrial and the local institutions. More specifically, for the
fulfilment of this objective the project aimed at:
*  bettering  the productive  structure  of the  area  under its influence, through  the
implementation of a more efficient agricultural sector;
*  giving the rural population a better life standard by building up basic infra-structures;
*  promoting the value added tax of the products and private investment in agricultural
industries, bettering the transforming and commerce structures, as well as strengthening
their enterprising capacity;
* reducing local differences in what concerns employment standards;
*  increasing the income of small farming exploitation;
*  strengthening the local participating institutions.
3. To fulfil these objectives the Project was organized in four lessential areas of action:
a) physical, agricultural and rural infra structures that supposed the establishment of a
body of infra-structures essential for the development of agriculture: recovering of 210
traditional watering systems; construction of 14 new collective watering systems;
construction Mf 469 km of agricultural and rural roads; execution of 658 electrification
schemes of agricultural exploitation. The funds for these actions were supported by
endowments inscribed in the PEDAP (Specific European Programme for the
Development of the Portuguese Agriculture), with the contribution of 75% from the CE
(European Community) and 25% from the EP. The loan of the WB for the carrying out of
the actions was intended to refinance the national part and its initial amount was of 44
million dollars, which was at about 49% of the total agreed loan. (Table 1).
'In the different works published during the PDRrIM, it was adopted a terminology which contemplated the organization of the Project in three
principal areas: the agricultural area, the credit and the non agricultural area. The agricultural area under the responsibility of the Direcqio
Regional de Agricultura (DRATM) included the sub-areas: (1) agricultural and rural infra structures; (2) Applied agricultural Investigation: (3)
Watering Projccts and Studies; (4) Reinforcement of the DRATM services. The Credit area is organized in a way similar to the one describcd in
this report Finally, the non agricultural area under the Comissio de Coordena;so da Regiao do Norte (CCRN) included these parts (1)
Reinforcement of the CCRN services and of its Technical Support Departnents - Gabinetes de Apoio T6cnico - (GAT); Ground studies and
Evaluation Unit (UA); Reinforcement of the FENACAM and, (4) Reinforcement of Enterprising Support Depatmnents -Gabinetes de Apoio
Empresanal (GAE).



APPENDIX B
Page 6
TABLE 1: Loan categories, amounts and financing conditions of the WB
CATEGORY  PART                DESCRIPTION               AMOUNT   REFINANCING
(USD) -     WB (%)
I         A    Tasks and equipment                  14 000 000      20
II        B    Subloans                             35 000 000      90
m         C    Tasks and goods                      30 000 000      25
IV      D, E, F Equipment, materials and vehicles    6 000 000      80
V        All  Consultative services, training and studies  2 000 000  80
VI        All  Not attributed sum                    3 000 000
TOTAL    90 000 000Q
b) investigation, studies and evaluation, including a large amount of works which were
conceived and developed under the responsibility of the regional institutions responsible
for the Project - DRATM (Regional Direction of Trdis-os-Montes Agriculture) and the
CCRN (Co-ordinating Commission of the Northern Region). The first line, called Applied
Agricultural Investigation, was a programme developeel under the DRATM, that either by
itself, or with the collaboration of other organizations (INIA, UITAD, TAHAL, etc.)
carried out a plan of investigation/experimentation, which joined technicians and farmers,
with the purpose of finding plausible solutions for some of the principal problems faced
by agriculture in this region. It was also under the responsibility of the DRATM, and in
the range of this area, that Studies and Watering Projects for structuring the actions to
develop in the hidro agricultural promotion were undertaken. At the same time, the
CCRN had ordered for some studies , called Base Studies, about the natural resources of
the region, which aimed at its improvement as well as at profiting it economically in a
short or medium time. Finally ,still within the range of this area, and under the
responsibility of the CCRN, it was constituted the UA. (Evaluation Unit) in the UTAD
(University of Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro) charged of making some research works
about the implementation of the Project and with several investigation lines to evaluate
the results.
c) credit area, under the administration of the IFADAP (Financial Institute for the Support
to the Development of the Portuguese Agriculture) created to give a financial support
through credit lines directed to investments related to (I) re-conversion of vineyards in the
Regiao Demarcada do Douro, (ii) transformation and plantation of chestnut and almond
fields, (iii) acquisition of equipment for the agricultural industries of the region,
particularly those engaged in the transformation /commercialization of traditional
agricultural products of the region. The investments should accomplish one or even more
of the following objectives: (a) re-conversion of the vineyard in the Regiao Demarcada do
Douro; (b) re-conversion and plantation of the chestnut and almond fields; (c)
modernization, enlargement or settlement of agricultural-industrial enterprises. As for the
financial aids for each project, its promoters had to use a minimum of 15% of their own
funds, and the remaining of the investrnent, which was niot subsidized by the community
funds, could be financed by the credit lines of PDRITM E. The initial loan amount for this
area was of 35 million dollars, at about 39% of the total amount of the loan.
d) Reinforcement of the Regional Services, that aimed essentially at providing the
institutions engaged in the regional development with the human, technical and material
means, so that they could better their possibility of intervention in their own areas and
give the necessary support to carry on in the agricultural area. Its financing came from the
PIDDAC (Programme of Investments and Expenses cf Development of the Central
2



APPENDIX B
Page 7
Administration). It covered the reinforcement of the following institutions engaged in the
development of the region: CCRN, DRATM, GAT's (Technical Support Departments)
FENACAM (Federation of the Agricultural Credit Banks), CCAMs (Mutual Agricultural
Credit Banks) and the GAE's (Departments for Enterprising Support) of the region.
B. EVALUATION OF THE OBJECTIVES
4. The definition of the objectives for the Project can be considered as satisfactory. The WB
and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) underlined the need for going on with the
efforts begun with the PDRITM I, that had essentially aimed at improving the life conditions
in the region of Tras-os-Montes and decreasing the differences in the development levels in
relation to other regions of Portugal.
5. The organization of the Project was the result of an analysis of the social and economical
conditions existing in Tras-os-Montes. In this region, considered as being the most depressed
in the country , agriculture still is the productive basis of the region, being this activity
essentially made up by small familiar farning exploitation with a very tenuous relationship
with a market economy. The edaphologic and climate conditions generally restrict, in a very
strong way, the practice of a competitive agriculture. Under these conditions, it was urgent to
make the agriculture of Tras-os-Montes viable through investments that might bring about
the required benefits able to reduce the lirmitations of the physical environment and allow the
structural adaptability of the agriculture of Tras-os-Montes in such a way as to permit the
growth of its competitive power and social efficiency. These aspects were of great
importance when choosing the kind of interventions to be primarily done in the area of the
rural and agricultural infra structures.
6. Considering the agricultural and ecological conditions of the region, it would also be
important to formulate and promote the adoption of arrangement proposals and of producing
technologies fitting each ecological situation and able to encourage the correct use of the
resources and endogenous capacities, as well as granting an acceptable income with a correct
use of the work and of the invested money. These aspects have been considered in the
agreement made with the WB. So, it has also been decided to finance a programme of
applied agricultural investigation and of basic studies to ensure the correct use of the
acquired knowledge and to develop a large programme of diffusion , technical support and
professional training.
7. It was also recognized that to reach the objectives for agricultural development, it would be
necessary to support investments to improve the conditions of production, as well as to
promote and better the structures for transformation and commerce, encouraging the
relationship between agriculture and the sectors aside production contributing for obtaining a
value added tax in the well succeeded productions. To accomplish this, special credit lines
were created within the range of the Project, to permit granting the necessary credit, not only
for the reformulating of some of the traditional agricultural cultures of the region (vineyard,
chestnut and almonds), but also for the modernization, enlargement or establishment of
agricultural industrial units of private or collective entities.
8. In order to fulfil the objectives of the Project, Community programmes fitting the same area
of action were used to permit a better use of the financial resources aiming the development
of the region. So, it is important to mention the work together with the PEDAP/PAMAF in
what concerns agricultural infra-structures, and with regulations in the range of FEOGA and
SIRB for agricultural and agricultural-industrial investment.
3



APPENDIX B
Page 8
9. Finally, in order to accomplish the objectives mentioned above, it was considered that the
different organizations directly engaged in the PDRITM 11 should get a reinforcement either
in human or in material means, without which, it would not be possible to set up in a
coherent way all the actions proposed for the Project. When preparing the Project, this aspect
has not been forgotten and it was decided they would make investments on those institutions
so that they could support the various actions to take place, included in the area of
reinforcement of services, as it has already been mentioned before.
C. ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
10. The information in this report summarizes all the data presented every year by the UAP (Unit
for the Administration of the Project) in the 5 situation reports already published2. In a
general way, it may be said that the Project has given a valuable contribution for the
development of Tras-os-Montes and for the improvement of the living conditions of the
resident population, which was its main goal. However, in some of the areas into which it
was divided, the Project did not manage the total fulfilmert of the objectives established in
the different sectors, as it will be possible to see. In the next chapter (chapter D) it will be
made a deeper analysis of the factors that contributed for the obtained results.
Physical Objectives
11. As for the area of the agricultural and rural infra-structures, the accomplishment of the
results was only partially satisfactory. This evaluation is the result of the comparison
between the objectives established in the "Staff Appraisal Report" (SAR) and what was
really achieved until December 1996. So, as for the improvement of the traditional watering
systems, along the time of the Project, 104 watering systems have been the object of an
intervention and 4429 ha, the area getting benefits .This is at about 50% of the SAR's
programme. In what concerns the new watering systems, actions were carried out in 9,
bringing benefits to at about 3000 ha. These results are, more or less, 64% of the SAR's
programme. In relation to the electrification systems, EDP (Portugal Electricity Company)
built 341 of these systems, which means only 52% of what was initially established. Finally,
100 agricultural and rural roads in the length of 242 km, were built through the programme.
The execution rate of these actions is of 51% of the SAR's programme.
12. The explanation for these results, that are not as satisfactory as they should be, lies mainly on
the low endowments placed by the PEDAP/PAMAF programmes at the disposal of the
Project for the execution of the agricultural and rural infra-structures, as it will be explained
further on.
Financial Objectives
13, The financial objectives of the Project both in what concerns the credit lines and the use of
the loan were far from being reached.
2 There are Five published reports which integrate and analyse the execution of the Project:
Ist progress Report, UAP, 1992
2n4 Progress Report. UAP. 1992
3rd Progress Report. UAP, 1993
4th Progress Report. UAP, 1994
SthPtogress Report, UAP, 1996
4



APPENDIX B
Page 9
14. In relation to the credit area it is worth to point out that significant changes have taken place
along the Project, as a result of the low use of the credit lines initially placed at the disposal
of the economical agents of the region. To minimize the situation, a new special cred line
was established in August 1993, for the storage of Oporto wine with the objective of
permitting the probation and the valuation of the stored wine and the payment to the
producers who bottle their wine, and Adegas Cooperativas. This new credit line received a
financial endowment of 20 mnllion dollars, amount which resulted from the readjustment of
the 35 millions initially attributed to the credit area. However, differently of what was
expected, the new credit line did not have the expected success as the conditions of the
commercialization and exportation of Oporto wine had changed very deeply and the stored
production had, meanwhile, been absorbed by the market.
15. The low interest for the credit lines, and the fact that only 7,7 mnillion dollars had been
presented to the WB for draft, led to the formal cancelling of the credit area in 1994.
16. Taking in account the exposed conditioning circumstances and the resulting expectations, it
was supposed that the use of the financial funds of the WB loan for the Project would be
endangered, so three cancellations were negotiated with the WB, during the time of the
Project, adjusting it to the new conditions of execution. (The detailed description of each of
these cancellations is found in Table 1, of Appendage )
17. The first cancellation in the amount of 20 million dollars took place in July 1993 and fell
upon category I (tasks and equipment), Im (tasks and goods), IV (equipment materials and
vehicles), V (consultative services, training and studies) and VI (not attributed amount).
18. The second cancellation, in the amount of 27 million dollars, was in December 1994 and it
only fell upon category II having as a result the cancelling of the credit area, as it has already
been said.
19. The third cancellation, in the amount of about 10,7 million dollars, was decided in April
1996; the changes that were introduced had their effects on categories I (tasks and
equipment), II (remaining of credit lines), III (tasks and goods) and IV (equipment,
materials and vehicles).
20. The available amount of the loan, after these alterations, is of about 32 million dollars being
more or less 30 million dollars, the total of the payments made until December 1996. It must
be said that this sum does not include some of the requests for payment after this date and
concerning the late part of 1996.
21. It is important to emphasize that the changes introduced in the Project, namely the three
cancellations, in a certain way, made it impossible to establish a comparison between what
has been done in the area of the infra-structures and the SAR's programme, since this one
has been planned assuming that the endowments for its execution would be those initially
settled. An analysis of Table 1 in Appendage II of this report permits us to conclude that the
financial execution of the various areas of the Project shows a very satisfactory rate of
success, if we only consider the effectively attributed endowment.
Institutional Objectives
22. In institutional terms, the accomplishment of the objectives can, only in part, be considered
as satisfactory. This has happened because the institutions directly engaged in the Project had
5



APPENDIX B
Page 10
to face a lot of bureaucratic - administrative barriers which prevented better performances in
the development of the established actions.
23. The DRATM, however managed to get very interesting results either in the application of the
programme of Applied Agricultural Investigation, or in th[e area of the Studies and Watering
Projects. In relation to the former of these programrnes, it can be seen that several
investigation works in traditional cultivation of the region (Chestnuts, almonds, etc.) had
taken place and that on the one hand they permitted to have a better knowledge about these
species, and, on the other, they allowed the identification of the principal obstacles to their
development, becoming, therefore, an important element for the planning of the regional
agricultural activity. As for the Studies and Watering Projexts, it is worth saying that the unit
created in the DRATM to perform these jobs (Watering Unit) promoted studies about the
watering viability and execution projects that cover an area of about 5600 ha.
24. In what concerns the CCRN, a financing received through the PDRITM permitted this
institution the hiring of qualified technicians and it also supported their training so that they
could have a better performance in the functions related to the Project. Furthermore, it also
supported the settlement of technicians who have performed (and still do) rolls with a great
impact in the regional development.
D. HISTORY OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND PRINCIPA.L FACTORS AFFECTING THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
History of the Implementation
25. The negotiations that permitted signing the loan for the PDRITM I began in February 1989,
when PDRITM I was not yet complete. The loan contract was signed on 30th August 1989.
However, the terms of effectiveness of the loan were only fulfilled in February 1990, this is
six months after the loan agreement had been signed. As For the credit line, because of the
greater complexity of its institutionalization, the effective use of the specific credit lines of
PDRITM II was only available since 29th April 1991. These obstacles had a negative impact
on the final results of the Project.
Factors related to political measures
26. In January 1986, Portugal becomes an effective member of the European Community (CE,
nowadays UE). This would become the most significant feature in the implementation of the
Project. Joining the CE, has meant the subjection of the Portuguese Agricultural Policy to the
severe accomplishment of the PAC (Common Agricultural Policy). As a consequence, the
objectives of the Project became, in a certain way, subrmitted to the global guiding lines of
the agricultural development policy, because of the compromises assumed with CE. It was
also the need for following directives of a macro-economical character, inherent to the
converging process of the Portuguese economy towards the Economnical and Monetary Union
within the European Community, which led to a certain restrain of the national public
expenses, that partly limited the financial resources, which in terms of national counterparts
were directed to the development of the Region.
27. Before these commitments and as for the agricultural and rural infra-structures, it is clear
that, the yearly assignment of the endowment of the PEDAP programrne (since 1994 the
specific agricultural programme was called PAMAF - Programme for the Support of the
Agricultural and Forest Modemization) for the accomplishiment of this area was far below
6



APPENDIX B
Page 1.1
the levels established in the loan contract made between the Portuguese Govemment and the
WB for financing the Project. This situation that went on along all the time of the Project
was responsible for the impossibility of accomplishing the goals established in the contract.
To be able to accomplish, in a reasonable way, the cornmitments established in the
agreement with the WB, it would have been necessary the EP had adopted the required
measures to permit the endowment given to Tras-os-Montes to be adequate to those
commitments.
28. The fact that it is not always known in the right time about the endowments, available every
year, to accomplish the different actions, made it impossible to set up an adequate calendar,
contributing for results that were far from what was desirable.
29. Besides, we think it would also have been necessary to make some rearrangements in the
system created in the range of the PEDAP/PAMAF, in order to prevent delays, sometimes
very significant, when transferring payments and that had as a result additional taxes and
giving a bad image of the DRATM before its suppliers.
30. As for the credit area, as it can be concluded from the previous chapter, that there have also
been some obstacles for the normal achievement of its objectives, on the one hand because of
the difficulties the ICP (Participating Credit Institutions) that joined the Project, put in
granting loans under the conditions established in the credit lines, and on the other hand,
because of a lack of adjustment in the offered financing conditions, considering the capacity
of those who might be interested. Therefore, there was a low adherence and only 7,7 million
dollars, 115 of the previously established goal had been presented for bank draft. As it was
said in several progress reports, the ICP's showed no interest in promoting the credit area,
because they considered that the benefits they would receive (about 1,5%) did not cover the
transaction duties. As it has already been mentioned, it was negotiated an alteration in this
area with the WB and so it was created a specific credit line for the storage of Oporto wine,
which did not succeed because of the above mentioned reasons. To overcome these
difficulties, in February 1994 the Co-ordinating Commission of the Project made a proposal
to the SET (Secretaria de Estado do Tesouro), making them aware of the urgent need of
giving this area a new impulse and suggesting more advantageous financing conditions such
as better money grants. These suggestions were not accepted by the SET.
31. Later on, after the conclusions and suggestions presented by the delegate of the WB during
his supervising visit in February 1994, the Secretary of the State Treasure (Secretario de
Estado do Tesouro) deternined the credit line to be extinguished. The WB was informed of
this decision and it was cancelled an amount of 27 million dollars in category 2, producing
effects from 28th December 1994 on.
32. In relation to the other areas, it can be concluded that they might have had better results case
the endowments given in PIDDAC by the Central Administration had been the most
adequate to accomplish the objectives established in the range of the PDRITM EI. On the
other hand, because the credit area suffered deep changes, the execution of some actions was
deeply affected, namely the support for the reinforcement of the FENACAMICCAMs and
the GAE's.
33. Finally it must be emphasized that some bureaucratic-administrative obstacles and some
alterations in the legislation were particularly bad for the accomplishment of the goals
established for the actions aiming the reinforcement of the services, namely the limitations to
hiring technical staff, acquisition of equipment (vehicles). It is also important to say that
7



APPENDIX B
Page 12
however hard the regional institutions responsible for the execution of the Project tried to
overcome these difficulties, they did not succeed.
Factors of different origin
34. Besides the conditioning circumstances that have already been mentioned, it must also be
said that there was some delay not only in starting up the programmed enterprises but also in
the execution of the assigned jobs. This has happened because of the financial conditioning
circumstances as well as other factors and among them:
* the need for making, sometimes, the technical readjustment of the projects;
* delay in making the projects available;
* delay in getting the necessary permission for the assignment of contracts and tasks;
* adverse climate conditions during Autumn and Winter, making it difficult to execute the
works;
* delays due to the contractors and autarchies.
E. EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PROJECT
35. In spite of the idea that might have been given in the previous chapters that the Project was
- far from what had been planned, the reason for such a thing lies, above all, in the deficient
financial allocation for the execution of its different areas, and not exactly in the inadequacy
of the objectives of the Project.
36. But it seems clear that the PDRITM II has given an essential contribution for the
development of the region, either creating or recovering the infra-structures indispensable for
the improvement of the agricultural activity (improvement of traditional watering systems,
building new watering systems, electrification of farning exploitation, building agricultural
and rural roads) or in the necessary impulse for starting up some agricultural-industrial
activities, or in the support to the reformulating of somie sectors, such as the vineyard,
chestnut and almond fields.
37. As already mentioned in chapter C the contribution given by the Project is relevant in what
concerns applied agricultural investigation and it also permitted to gather a lot of knowledge
that will contribute, and that already does, for an important improvement of the conditions in
the production of crops, with a great social and econornical importance in the Region,
namely dried fruits, vegetables, cereals and fodder. The studies constitute a valuable tool in
the planning and supporting of the regional agricultural activity. Besides, it is worth saying
that in this area there was a great lack of means that was, somehow overcome by the Project.
In terms of Studies and Watering Projects, there was a search for solutions to vast areas of
the region and there are still studies financed by the PDRTI'M II ready to be put into practice
very soon, and which are going to have the financial support of other development
programmes. The constituted Watering Unit is ready to develop other works of this kind, a
consequence of the profiting experience acquired during the execution of the Project.
38. It is worth mentioning the efforts to strengthen the perforrmance of several institutions in
what concerns the necessary human and technical means for the support of the various
activities related to the regional developrnent.
39. The inter connection in the performance of the different institutions engaged in the Project
has led to get a great deal of experience of multi disciplinaxy adequacy, determining in this
8



APPENDIX B
Page 13
way the establishment of institutional links that are now being used and that will probably go
on producing good results in the future.
40. It is obviously too early to do a correct evaluation of the impact that the PDRITM 1 has
brought to the region. However, we are positively sure that important steps have been taken
so that, in the future, the development actions to promote the region will have the advantage
of the collected experience, data and tools that are, no doubt, the result of the implementation
of the Project.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
41. The performance of the World Bank during the time of the Project can be considered as very
satisfactory. The identification, preparation, the forecasts and the control of the Project were
adequate to the real needs.
42. It should be emphasized the obvious importance of the supervising missions of the WB, as
for advice and performnance proposals, that were decisive for a more adequate
implementation of the Project. The frequency and the composition of those missions , fitting
the necessities of the Project, is of a special importance. A particular attention for the
frequent advice to the govemment organizations, namely in relation to the lack of adequacy
in the financial endowments to execute the actions, for the impossibility of accomplishing
the established plan and for their efforts to make them sensible to the introduction of
alterations in the conditions of credit financing, aiming its reopening.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE LOAN BoRRowER
43. The performance of the EP, as the borrower of the loan, was not very satisfactory. As it has
been said in chapter D, the conditionings imposed by the necessity of following macro-
economic directives, did not permit to fulfil the financial compromises assumed in the loan
contract and endangered the total accomplishment of the Project. The endowments placed at
the disposal of the Project were not able of accomplishing what had been set with the WB,
for the PIDDAC as well as for the specific programme for agriculture (PEDAP/PAMAF). On
the other hand, the delays that sometimes occurred in loosening the funds, were responsible
for some embarrassment and led to an increase of the cost prices and to the disinterest of the
agents engaged in the Project, bringing damage to the image of the regional institutions.
9



APPENDIX B
Page 14
H. MAIN CONCLUSIONS TO BE EXTRACTED
44. The implementation of PDRrTM II permitted to gather a considerable amount of
experiences, some of which very positive, indeed. Since the enumeration of these
experiences would become a very long process, we will only mention those that, according to
our opinion, are most directly related to the insufficient accomplishment of the Project.
45. As the implementation of the Project was going on, it became clear that the accomplishment
of the Project would be endangered if the Co-ordinating Board (Conselho de Coordenagao),
with a great negotiation impact near the Governmental Institutions, were not established, in
order to overcome the difficulties .that the PDR1TM II had to face along its way.
46. Bureaucratic-administrative conditionings which did not permit a sufficient flexibility in the
management decisions, brought about some difficulties in executing the Project. It would be
necessary to have a flexible administration to guarantee in the right time the adoption of
measures due to the necessity of adjusting the proposals and the timing of the actions to the
real evolution of the implementation of the Project.
47. In future enterprises, it is absolutely necessary to regard the inter-connection and the
implementation of the objectives with funds of different origin, as it is very difficult to
optimize all these resources, especially ,if one of them is determining in relation to the
others.
to



APPENDIX B
Page 15
APPENDAGE I
Table 1: Loan cancellations and respective reallocation of the funds through the various
categories (USD)
Loan          Initial                     Cancellations                     Present
Categories      Amount       lst (July/93)    2nd (Dec/94)    3rd (Apr/96)    Amount
I             14 000 000     4 000 000       -              3 502 084         6 497 916
i             35 000 000      -             27 000 000       293 167           7 706 834
i, m           30000000      15000000         -             5608307            9391 693
IV              6 000 000     I 000 000       -             1 345 660          3 654 340
V              2 000000     -3000 000        -                                5 000 000
VI              3 000 000    3 000 000 _-                                             0
TOTAL            90 000 000    20 000 000      27 000 000     10 749 217        32 250 784



APPENDIX B
Page 16
APPENDAGE IE
Table 1: Financial execution of the various areas of the PDRITM  H1, taking in account the
available endowments for its accomplishment
AREAS AND SUB-AREAS                    attributed       Expenses      Rate of financial
endowment                         execution
(x 1000 Esc)   (x 1000 Esc)          (%)
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL3 508                                          7202583                .6
lmprovement of traditional watering systems         1 189 980        1 208 322              101.2
New collective watering systems                     3 816 741        3 246 737               90.4
Agicultural and rural roads                         1 679 784         1 518 385              93.5
Rural electrification                               1 357 003         1 229 139              92.4
STUls,PETIG ATIONANDEVALUATION.                   ..-..6 611:          90 70 ..
Applied agricultural investigation                    381 252          302 016               79.2
Studies and watering projects                         630 141          467 812               74.2
Base Studies and evaluation Unit (CCRN)               245 218          220 876               90.1
IFRED   ENT   _FREG1ONAL SERIE    U7    662                            21q7         - - 7.
Reinforcement of the DRATM                          1 088 517          802 126               73.7
Reinforcement of the services of the CCRNIGAT         347 339          242 167               69.7
Reinforcement of the FENACAMWCCAM                      74 992           72 594               96.8
Reinforcement of the GAE's                            106 080          104 390               98.4



APPENDIX C
Page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3035-PO
APPENDIX C
EU PROGRAMS IN PORTUGAL
1.    Portugal has been able to participate in Community (EEC/EU) aid programs for
development, principally under three structual funds: the European Regional Development Fund,
the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund -
Orientation Section (FEOGA). I Total funding from the Community has been as follows:
Funding Program                 Funding Period          Amount
(ECU million)
"Previous Regulation"                         1986-1988              2,200
First Community Support Framework             1989-1993              9,066
Second Community Support Framework            1994-1999              17,600
Initially, the main support framework under FEOGA included the following instruments:
Specific Agricultural Development Program for Portugal (PEDAP), approved under regulation
3828/85; improvement of wine growing in Portugal, regulation 2239/86; improvement of
efficiency of agrarian structures in Portugal, regulation 797/85; improvement in processing and
marketing of agricultural and fisheries products, regulation 355/77; and improvement and
adapatation of fisheries and agriculture, regulation 4028/86. The principal instrument since 1994
has been the Program for the Support of Agriculture and Forestry Modernization (PAMAF-
Portarias 809/94).
2.    Under the Second Community Support Framework 1994-1999, specific allocations
within the global ECU 17.6 billion program for Portugal related to rural development
(nationwide) and the Northern Region are as follows:
Purpose                     Amount (ECU million)
Agriculture                                       1,764
Fishing                                           248
Environment                                       260
Rural and local development                        305
Regional incentives                                191
Transborder cooperation                            200
Northern Region                                    537
Mota I., Vitorio Nuno, Romeu Reis, Regional Adjustment in Portugal in the 1980s. Lessons for Poland,
World Bank intemal document, 1996.



APPENDIX C
Page 2
Examples of support under the PAMAF program are presented below.
Purpose                          Subsidy Element or Premium
Young farmers under 40 years of age       65% for eligible investments (47% for
mechanized equipment); 41% of cost of land
purchase;, start-up assistance 2,800 contos
Farmers over 40 years of age               55% of eligible investments; 40% for
mechanized equipment
Establishing business records             234 contos
Farmers associations                      90% of eligible expenses with 3,560 contos
maximum; collective investments in
disadvantaged regions 50-75% of eligible
investments with 23 million contos maximum
Olive trees                               65% of cost of replanting, plus premium of 50-
150 contos/ha; 60-104 contos/ha for pruning;
50% for mechanized cultivation
Vinyards                                  65% for replanting; 50% for specific
equipment; plus 300-500 contos/ha premium
Pigs and poultry antipollution measures   50% of investment in waste treatment
Commercialization/processing/marketing    65% of eligible expenses for region-typical
products, with 50,000 contos maximum; 75%
for high-quality origin certification products
Traditional irrigation                     10% farmer, 67.5% EU, 22.5% GOP
Minor irrigation                          45% farmer, 41.5% EU, 13.5% GOP
Medium sized irrigation                    75% EU, 25% GOP
Field roads                               75% EU, 25% GOP
Rural roads                                50% municipality, 37.5% EU, 12.5% GOP
Electrification general                   75% EU, 25% GOP
Electrification in-farm                   45% farmer, 41.5% EU, 13.5% GOP
Examples of support under the guarantee programs are shown below.
Purpose                           Guarantee/subsidy payment
Cereals                                    16,690 Esc/ha
Top-up until 2003 for Portugal: wheat 15
Esc/kg, rye 9.5 Esc/kg, maize 7.5 Esc/kg
Cattle premium                            37,100 Esc/cow
Sheep premium                             5,080 Esc/head
Goat premium                              4,050 Esc/head
Additionally in disadvantaged region       up to 5 heads 17,800 Esc/animal unit; 5-13
heads 9,900 Esc/animal unit; for land
excluding pasture, 1-5 ha 17,800 Esc; 32
Esc/liter fuel subsidy



MAP SECTION






IBRD 21 268R
"'PENEDA- GEEJ7--,
'- ~NA TIONA    Er.
JPARK 
Ln~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~       
PA4
*      TRAS os MONTES
*'99                            ~~DEVELOPMENT--"'
-  aioa1  Natural Parks                   Support Office  for
HeAT  dquarters                         fEtarpra Developmet
.9. 09n9u,,9.                      0W     ~         GA  BoudarIe                 A       eLR. j, Statlu_
Completed Nat.Ioa  H-ighwoys
                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~          ~~~~~~~~~~P'o7at A,e. 6-odury  Planne.d National Highn-ys
--         T-kJrrruu -  uonur6 a
E                                                                                       T.-  d. Alt. t .. g.                 -      B.-h -1 4  i
n 99                               "~~~~~~~9X                   oR "19                              ru9~~~~~~~~~~   A                               T-  F                                     M        9'19,-
T.   d. M-a. / P.d,.I.~MAICEt198



