Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6~AJ
Report No. 7538-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 16, 1989
Agriculture Operationc Division
Country Department 1V
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
[heir official duties. Its contents mam not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
(as of Dec. 1988)
Currency Unit                                 Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Esc.  145.00                                       US $1.00
Esc.    1.Ou                                       US $0.0068
Average 1984-1988
Ese.  164.00                                  ..... US $1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVI\TIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC         Agrarian Regional Council
CAP         Common Agricultural Policy
CCAM        Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (Agricultural Credit Cooperative)
CCRN        Comissao de Coordenacao da Regiao do Norte (Northern Regional
Administration)
CP          Cooperative Program, World Bank/FAO
DGHEA       Direccao Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola
(General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DGRN        Direccao Geral de Recursos Naturales
(General Directorate of Natural Resources)
DRATM       Direccao Regionai de Agricultura de Tras-os-Montes (MAPA Regional
Office)
EEC         Europe;4n Economic Community
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
ERND        European Regional Development Fund
F'EOGA      European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
FENACA.M    Federacao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo
FES         The European Social Fund
C;AE        Gabinete de Apoio Empresarial (Office of Entrepreneurial Support)
CAT         Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Office of Technical Support)
IAPA        Instituto de Apoio a Transpormacao e a Comercializacao dos
Productos Agro Alimentares (Institute for the Marketing of
Agroindustrial Products)
IDARN       Instituto para o Desenvolvimento da Agricultural da Regiao do Norte
(Institute for the Development of Agriculture in the Northern
Region)
IFADAP      Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Deser.volvimento da Agric_ltura
e Pescas (Agriculture and Fisheries Development Fund)
INIA        Instituto National das Investigacaos Agricolas (National
Agricultural Research Institute)
MAPA        Ministerio da Agricultura, Pescas e Alimentacao
(Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food)
NCC         National Coordination Council
PF4         Participating Banking InstiLutions
PEDAP       Program Especifico para o Desenvolvimento da Agricultura Portuguese
(Special Program for the Development of the Portuguese Agriculture)
PAL         Project Administration Ufnit
PEL'        Project Evaluation Unit
ROP         Republic of Portugal
TONI        Tras-Os-Montes
[lTAD       r;niversity of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro
GOVERNMIENT OF PORTUGAL
FISCAL YEAR
(January 1 - December 31)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chepter                                                                            Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.       BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                        2
A.  Agricultural Sector and Accessior. to EEC.. . . .                      2
B. Regional Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        3
C.  The Bank Role . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               L
III.    THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           6
A.  Main Physical and Social Features . . . . . . . .6 
B.  Agricultural Production and Putential . . . . . .                      8
C. Agroindustries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       11
D.  Agricultural Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     11
E.  Institutional Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     14
IV.        THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      15
A.  Project Objectives and Design . . . . . . . . . .                     15
B. Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        16
C.  Status of Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     23
V.       PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .  .              . . . . . . . . . . .         24
A.  Cost Estimates ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
B.  Financing Plan ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
C. Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      26
D.  Bank Loan Allccation and Disbursement . . . . . .                     27
VI.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .                      28
A.   Implementing Agencies.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    28
B.  Project Administration and Planning.  . . . . . .                     29
C.  Project Support Services,  Irrigation and Rural
Infrastructure.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     29
D.  The Credit Component.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      33
E.  Accounts and Audits.  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                      35
F.  Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation . . . . .                       35
G.  Environmental Impact.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      36
Thiq document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worlai Bank authorization.



(ii)
Chapter                                                                    Page No.
VII.     PRODUCTION AND SOCIAL BENEFITS AND JUSTIFECAXTON                   36
A.  Project Economic and Poverty Impact. . . .                     36
B.  Cropping Yields and Agricultural
and Agroindustrial Productioni. . . . . . .                   37
C.  Marketing of Project Output. . . . . . . .                     38
D.  Financial and Economic Viability . . . . .                     39
E.  Cost Recovery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    40
F.  Project Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    41
VIII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                             41
CHARTS:   Implementation Schedule
Project Organization Chart
ANNEX 1
Table 1:     Area and Population of the Region
Table 2:     Cultivated and Irrigated Areas
Table 3:     Project Components by Year
Table 4:     Cost Estimates by Expenditure Category
Table 5:     CCCAM Balance Sheets
Table 6:     Aggregate CCA.Ms Balance Sheets
Table t:      Equipment list
Table 8:      Incremenital recruitments and training requirements
"able 9,     Schedule of Dishursements
ANNEX 2
Table l:      Farmgate Financial and Economic Prices
Table 2:     Agricultural Production
a-le 3.      Crop Yields
TL'"e '.     Summn.ry FRRs, ERRs and Sensitiv  ty  Av-,s
Vineyard Replarit mg
Table 3:      Farm Budget
Table 6:      Economic Analysis
Traditional Schemes
Tatble /     High valleys
Table 8:     Mountain areas
Table 9:     Economr.Tc Analysis
New Schemes - High Valley Area
Table 10:    Small Farms Farm Budget
Table ll:    Large Farms Farm Budget
Trable 12:    Economic Analysis - Scheme
New Schemes - Terra Quente Area
T&ole 13:    Small Farms Farm Budget
Table 14:    Large Farms Farm Budget
Table .5:    Economic Analysis - Scheme
ANNEX 3       Related Documents available in the Project File. . .
A. FAO/CP Preparation Report
B. EEC Regulations and Documents Related to Project
Background
C. Detailed Tables
MAPS:    IBRD Nos. 21268(R) and 21271



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic ot Portugal (ROP)
Beneficiares:          Eight thousand farm families in the Tras-cs-Montes
(TOM) region who are engaged in the cultivation of
Port wine vineyards and other commercial crops and
in livestock production. Agroindustrial concerns
producing mainly wine, olive oil, fruits and
vegetables.
Amount:                US$9G million equivalent.
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:    ROP would make available to IFADAP the Bank loan
proceeds 'or the credit component which will be
onlent through financial intermediaries (CCAMs and
PBIs) at a variable onlending interest rate which
would be 2% below the medium-term market interest
rate but in any case positive in real terms. The
medium-term market rate would be determined by
adding 3.5% to the Central Bank r_discounting rate
which at present is 13.5%, and therefore the present
onlending rate to the sub-borrowers would be 15Z.
IFADAP will earn a fee of 1% and the financial
intermediaries a spread of 1.5% on the outstanding
principal amount of each subloan. These provisions
would be reviewed by ROP and the Bank annually to
ensure that onlending rates remain positive in real
terms. The foreign exchange risk on all sub-loans
would be borne by ROP.
Project Objectives     The project objectives are: (i) to transform
agriculture of the Tras-Os-Montes (TOM) region into
a more efficient but smaller sector principally
focussed on the more productive areas of Chavez,
Terra Quente and the Douro Valley; (ii) to increase
value added in agriculture through improvement and
expansion of processing and marketing facilities
organized through cooperatives and entrepreneurs of
the private sector; (iii) to promote steady economic
growth of this poor region of Portugal while
maintaining its ecological balance; and (iv) to
increase rural family incomes, especially of women
who make up a large part of the agriculture labor
force in the area



- ii -
Project Description         The main project components would be:
(a) strengthening of basic agricultural services
(research, extension and planning) through
reorganization, staffing and provision of equipment
and vehicles; (b) provision of term credit for
(i) modernization of agroindustries and upgrading of
marketing services and (ii) replanting of 5,000 ha
of ex.sting vineyards for port wine;
(c) rehabilitation of 220 small traditional
irrigation schemes; and construction of about 18 new
medium size irrigation schemes, two of them also
involving water supply; and (d) construction and
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure including
roads, water supply and sewerage, electrification
and development of national and natural parks.
Project Benefits:           Economic benefits are expected from: (i) increased
production and exports of port wine, olive oil,
dairy products, fruits and vegetables supported by
improved quality of production and by product
diversification based on dynamic comparative
advantage; (ii) improved opportunities for the
private sector to contribute to regional economic
growth and increased employment opportunities,
especially in agroindustry and services; and
(iii) reduction in poverty and environmental
riEks.
Project Risks               The principal risks facir.g the project are (i) the
possibility that one of the major executing
agencies, Comissao de Coordenacao da Regiao do Norte
(CCRN), does not strengthen its organization to the
extent required for adequate supervision of project
implementation; (ii) delay in project implementation
that could reduce project economic benefits; and
(iii) delay in improving research and extension
services and in coordinating EEC/Bank programs for
regional development. However, ROP has expressed
firm commitment to efficient project implementation
and CCRN's satisfactory record under the ongoing
project holds promise of satisfactory future
performance.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local            Foreign            Total
-------       (US$ million)…--------…--
Agricultural Research              3.5                0.5               4.0
Extension                          7.0                1.6               8.6
Agricultural Credit               90.0               63.2             153.2
Irrigation Schemes                57.5              18.8               76.3
Rural Infrastructure             125.5               27.4             152.9
Institutional Development         13.7               4.6               18.3
Studies                            2.0                0.5               2.5
Total                        299.2             1166               415.L



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local            Foreign             Total
--------------US$ million)--------------
IBRD                                                 90.0                90.0
EEC                               186.5               26.6              213.1
ROP                                49.0                                   49,0
PBI/CCAMs                          40.7                                   40.7
Beneficiaries                      2.0                                   23.0
Total                                            LL_
Estimated
Disbursements  Bank FY    90        91      92      93     94      95      96       97
------------------------US$ million…-----------------…--________
Annual                    11.4   12.5    12.8   13.0   14.0   14.0    8.3    5.0
Cumulative                11.4   23.9    36.7   49.7   63.7   77.7   85.0   90.0
The closing date of the project would be June 30, 1997.
Economic Rate of Return:       Ranging between 12% and 20% for primary
production and 20% and 32% for agroindustry.
Nlap: IBRD Nos. 21268(R) and 21271
I ~    ~~~~ o 9ss



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The project has originated from a review of the Portuguese
authorities and Bank staff of the results achieved under the ongoing,
Bank-financed Tras-Os-Montes (TOM) Rural Development Project (Loan 2175-PO)
and of further Bank assistance to the agriculture sector, so as to enable it
to compete successfully within the European Economic Community (EEC), that
Portugal joined in January 1986. At present, Portuguese agriculture is
characterized by high prices, low productivity, inadequate agricultural
support services and a large trade deficit. The Government's strategy in this
period of transition (1986-1996) before Portugal's fall accession to the EEC
is to transform agriculture into an efficient and export-oriented sector which
would provide higher incomes and living standards to those depending on it,
though their numbers might decline. Following the guidelines of the Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EEC, the Government proposes to adopt
measures directed towards price and trade liberalization and increased
production e£ficiency and promote broad-based regional development, by
focussing on the less developed regions of the country such as TOM. The Bank
is well placed to support these efforts through the proposed project because
of the knowledge and experience gained Lhrough the on-going project in this
region.
1.02        In the course of the preparation and appraisal of the proposed
project, the Bank has worked closely with the Government and the EEC
authorities in focussing particular emphasis on privatization of the sector,
reduction of poverty in one of the few regions of Europe where it still exists
and increasing income and standards of living of the womnen who make up a large
part of the working population in the project area. Also, in proposing
changes in the production structure of the sector, the Bank has kept in view
environmental concerns and placed special emphasis on the development of
natural parks and on promoting the ecological balance of the region.
Government and EEC consider the proposed project as providing the basic
framework for a larger regional development program including industry,
infrastructure and services to be undertaken with EEC support.
1.03        The project was identified and prepared by FAO/CP missions in
February 1988 and April-May 1988 respectively. A Bank mission visited
Portugal in June/July 1988 to appraise the project; its task was completed by
a post-appraisal mission in October 1988. The first mission included
Mr. J. Glenn, Mesdames C. Cornelius and R. Hilton (Bank) and Messrs.
P. Scandizzo. J. Newton, and R. Zavatta (Consultants), while the latter
included Messrs. H. Plusquellec (Bank) and C. Bartoli (Consultant). Both
missions were led by Mr. F. Lucca and included Mr. K. Kwaku.



-2-
IL. BACKGROUND
A. Agneultural Sector and Accession to EEC
2.01     Agriculture repreaents an important share of the economy of Portugal,
contributing in 1987 to about 91 of the GDP, and 231 of total employment and
generating about 251 of the country's foreign exchange earnings. However,
agricultural production has been fluctuating around a declining trend for
almost two decades, and agricultural exports have also been declining as a
propo' ion of total exports from 50% in the 1970s to about 201 at present.
The agricultural trade balance has been in chronic deficit since the early 7Cs
and, in recent years, it has averaged 15% of the overall merchandise trade
deficit.  The weaknesses oa  the sector include small farm size (especially in
tne northern region), poor research and extension resulting in low yields, and
deficient marketing channels. At the same time, since the revolution of 1974,
Government policies that provided subsidies to agriculture and involved other
market protection measures, have resulted in Portuguese agricultural prices
being higher than those in the world market, jeopardizing international
competitiveness.
2.02     In January 1986 Portugal joined the EEC, embracing its policies baised
on free factor mobility and on free competition within the common market.
This involved movement towards the adoption of the Common Agricultural Pol4.cy
(CAP) aimed at restructuring agriculture within the community based on
comparative advantage.  With the anticipated competition of agricultural
imports from other EEC countries and the likely impact of the gradual
elimination of protective measures, drastic adjustments in the sector in the
medium-term have become necessary. The challenge during the period of
accession (1986-1996) is thus one of transforming Portuguese agriculture into
a smaller but more efficiei.t, export-oriented sector of the economy. The
proportion of the country's population supported by it would decline but
primary production and agroindustry would earn higher incomes by achieving
increased efficiency and focussing on those lines of production in which
Portugal can havc a comparative advantage within the Community. At the same
time, Government policy seeks to smooth the transition for those whose present
production activities will be threatened by competition from other EEC
producers, by firding alternative avenues of employment, within the
agricultural sector or outside it as needed and, in some cases, by providing
monetary compensation for their exit from the sector as a short-term
expedient. Still another element of the CAP is to rely on private
entrepreneurship within the context of a favorable policy environment created
for the purpose, and an efficient infrastructure of facilities and services
established to support such investment.
2.03     ROP, with EEC support, has taken many steps during the last two years
in pursuance of the policies set out above. The real devaluation of the
escudo during this period has effectively brought down most agricultural
prices which are therefore closer to the EEC levels. The general approach is
to monitor the price movements of agricultural products in line with CAP, and
to encourage and assist farmers to respond to market signals. Specific
programs are being formulated, with EEC assistance, to emphasize private
participation in sectoral development (para 2.07). Thus, the Government is
endeavoring to promote privatization of the extension service as in most other
EEC countries and to ensure that research is demand driven and meets cropping



-3-
and commercial needs of farmers. The relatively more commercially-oriented
farmers would increasingly look to private technicians or ,marketing or supply
organizations for advice on technology, while small farmers would be organized
into groups and coopelatives so as to farilitate the channelling of such
services. '4ith assistance from the EEC and KFW, a natiorial survey of
agricultural land ownership and use is being carried out as the basis for
devising a land consolidation plan so that holdings conform to minimum
standards of viability. lhis is pa-ticularly important for the northern
region where most properties are I ha to 1.5 ha. Meanwhile, support in terms
of extension and credit is to be provided fo- Lioldiags of 2 ha or less only if
they are brought together under prcducer groups. Sale of small plots by old
farmers to enterprising young farmers is also being encouraged as a step
towards viability at the farm level. These actions - some already taken and
others proposed to be carried out - are aimed at leading Portuguese
agriculture towards higher efficiency, increaseed  ivatization, and greater
competitiveness within the commnon market.
B. Regional Development
2.04     At the regional level, Portugal is beset, like most southern European
EEC countries, by marked geographical disparities in levels and rates of
growth of output, incomes, and employment, coupled with inter-regional labor
migration and susceptibility to economic fluctuations. To mitigate these
problems, Government policy is to promote balanced growth nation%ide and, to
this end, build up efficient regional economies. This goal is to be achieved
by creating the appropriate policy environmer.t, investing in the establishmeint
of the needed infrastructure and support services, (so as to provide a
framework within which the private sector would find incentives to operate),
and by training and utilizing manpower locally.  However, there is no
intentiorn of sustaining the country's more backward regions through a massive
transfer of fiscal resources.  The policy is rather to underpin the adjustmenlt
process by carefully targetting investments and improved services towards
activities which hold promise of sustainable, potential development. The ROP
and the EEC have agreed on the allocation, through the European Regional
Development F nd (ERDF), of substantial resources durirng the transitional
period to hp.p restructure agriculture and other productive sectors at the
regional level, particularly for addres. ng the special needs of the less
developed areas of the country.
2.05     TOM is one of the regions in which the Government is making a many
sided effort in line with the goal of balanced regional development, backed by
EEC funds. This is also consistent with the broad sectoial strategy of
Government, in the context of entry into EEC, to support and develop those
aspects of agriculture w:iich have a potential future in the EEC market and
facilitate the transition for other areas of crop/livestock production wh.ch
are not so competitive (para 2.02). The object is, therefore, to focus on
those geographical areas in the region and those crops and livestock products
which have a future, in terms of cor.,parative advantage. Support is also being
proposed for new uplands farming on the lines of the experience of other
southern European EEC countries, involving production of soft fruits, berries,
medicinal plants, mushroom, and truffles. Other aspects of this many sided
effort include wild life production in integrated farming forestry units by
emphasizing a genetic selection of game and the breeding and release of
animals into the wild, and the application of biotechnology through the use of
waste and other products.



- 4 -
2.06     !he Government seeks to assist in bringing about these desirable
changes in the production structure of the region by providing for
(i) rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation facilities;
(ii) reorganization, strengthening and linki.ig of the arrangements for
agricultural research, extensioi and credit; and (iii) the development of the
marketing and processing structure which is required as the basis for
increased productior in conformity with the requisite quality standards.
Further, it is recognized that this agricultural program or, indeed, the
development efforts in general cannot succeed unless the infrastructure is
strengthened, e.g. in terms of roads, water supply and rural electrification.
As the agricultural sector gains in efficiency but is somewhat reduced in
size, the proportion of the population in employment on the farm is likely to
decline and, those exiting from fazming will need to be absorbed in other
occupations such as agroindustries and agrotourism or otherwise taken out of
agricultural activity as with aging farmers. An important aim of official
strategy is, therefore, to build up rural institutions and the infrastructure
which are esse.,tial for integrated regional development. The foregoing are
the principal elements of the netional development strategy of Government in
both its agricultural and regional aspects, which, underlies the concept of the
proposed project for the TOM Region.
2.07     Substantial financial assistance is being provided by the EEC and the
European Investment Bank (EIB) for restructuring the Portuguese economy during
the present transitionai period. Support for regional development and for the
agricultural sector in Portugal within this framework is designed to help ease
the structural constraints to higher efficiency in production and smooth the
process of adjustment. This program encompasses the following EEC schemes:
(a) Re?uilation 797/85 which provides assistance towards investment for:
(i) increasing farm productivity and incomes; (ii) setting up young farmers in
agricultural areas and promotion of group farming; (iii) promoting land
improvement and woud lands; and (iv) agr,-ourism and artisanal enterprises;
(b) Rg^,ulation 355/77 for investments in agricultural processing and
marketing; and (c) Regulation 3828/85 establishing the Special Program For the
Development of Portuguese Agriculture (PEDAP) to improve rural infrastructure,
to modernize irrigation schemes, and to finance land, pasture and forest
improvement; and (d) Regulatio. 2238/86 supporting the restructuring of
Portuguese vineyards. The ERDF is presently preparing a new program that
would cover most of the above regulations and increase EEC financing in the
aggregate to about 70% of the total investment to be undertaken by Portugal to
support regional development and integration.
C. The Bank Role
2.08     Notwithstanding EEC support of significant dimensions, the Government
attaches value to the Bank role in terms of provision of resources for
financing investment, and more importantly, for assistance in policy
formulation, project identification, preparation and appraisal, and
institution-building. In fact, the EEC authorities have closely collaborated
with the Bank at the different stages of the proposed project, recognizing
that the Bank activities could assist in the effectlve and productive
absorption of the EEC funds being provided for agricultural and regional
development. 'ihe role of the Bank is thus valued not only for its financial
contribution but also for its special knowledge of the sector and the
project. This is especially true of the project area of TOM and the Bank's
--t ni.   -n ri-nr^  ;eh    oir- lnA -nA -arir-i1t-ir- r-v lennm nt- nrn ijartc



in general. Further, Bank involvement helps ensure that special economic and
social aspects of development receive appropriate emphasis. Thus, the
proposed project principally focuses on assisting private farmers and
agroindustrial entrepreneurs to develop the regional economy, and on
progressively privatizing agricultural support services (research, extension
and marketing).  Further, by assisting regional development of TOM, the Bank
will help reduce poverty in one of the poorest regions of Europe and to
improve income and standards of living especially of womei, who make up a
large proportion of Lie labor force in agriculture.  Finally, the project will
help promote balanced development with due consideration of environmental
concerns, supporting the preservation of TOM's natural parks and the
transformation of some of the mountain areas into forestry-farm units.
2.09     There are two on-going Bank-financed operations ill the agricultural
sector in Portugal: the Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project (Loan
2175-PO) and the Forestry Project (Loan 1853-PO). The former is the initial
operation on whose objectives and irnstitutional framewor'.; the proposed project
is based. The implementation of this pro,ect is proceeding satisfactorily.
As of December 31, 1988, that is, with 12 months to go before its Closing
Date, 702 of all project funds had been disbursed, and 90X of all funds
committed. Its implementation has demonstrated that there is institutional
capacity within the region co manage and supervise a complex program involving
a multi-sectoral combination of components. Civil works for irrigation
schemes, roads and other public infrastructure have been satisfactorily
completed, mainly on the basis of local expertise which is up to satisfactory
standards. The performance in regard to research and extension services has
not been upto expectations mainly because of the past reluctance of the
Ministry of Agriculture to recruit additional technicians due to budgetary
constraints. Nevertheless, positive results in agricultural producLion are
being achieved.  While adoption of improvements by farmers - such as changes
in cropping patterns in newly irrigated areas - has been slower than expected,
the evaluation carried out by the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro
provides evidence of improvement in farmers' receptivity, changes in the
pattern of production and substantial increase in yields in many parts of the
region. The lessons from the experience with this project have been taken
ir.to 'onsideration in formulating the organizational arrangemen'-s for the new
projecL. On the whole, the TOM project has provided evidence of the
capability of the local organization to imolement a complex project and
established a solid institutional and technical base on which to build a
second Bank-financed project.
2.10     The Forestry project began in 1980 and aimed to establish some
150,000 ha of new plantation, set up a forestry extension service, provide
credit for integrated forestry extraction and undertake an in-depth study of
the forestry sub-sector. About 70% of the loan funds have been disbursed so
far. After Portugal's accession to the EEC and the adoption of a new
financing program agreed with the EEC, the Government ceased to apply cost
recovery which had been applied up to that time under the project for private
afforestation. Bank financing is now, therefore, restricted to investment
operations in which cost recovery is not an issue. The loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 1989. The project will easily exceed its original
forest plantation target and, in addition, it will have treated (thinned) a
considerable area of naturally regenerated pine forests, both ensuring rapid
growth and reducing their fire hazard. A detailed study of the forestry
sub-sector was completed by late 1981.  On the other hand, no effective
forestry exLension service has been established.



- 6 -
2.11     During preparation and appraisal of the present project there has
been close consultation and agreement between the Bank and the EEC Commission
(FEOGA/ERDF) on the project design arid arrangements for f inancing the proposed
investments.  The project represents a key element in the dialogue between the
ROP and the EEC because its components constitute the core of a broader
program of assistance for the integrated development of the TOM region that
the Government plan to submit to the EEC during CY89.
Ill. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Main Physical and Social Features
3.01     Location.  The proje-t area encompasses the north-eastern agrarian
region of Tras-os-Montes (Map 21268) which includes the district of Braganca,
almosc the entire district of Vila Real and the northern parts of Guarda and
Viseu districts. The region is bordered by Spain to the east and north, by
the Entre-Douro e Ylinho (EDE!1) regioni in the West and Beira Interior and Beira
Litoral regions in the south. The project area is basically the same as that
covered by the on-going Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project (Loan
21 75-PO).
3.02      Ppulation.  Tbe population of the region in 1987 was 624,000 which
represents a decline from abotut 732,000 in 1960, as a result of the
substantial outmigraticn from the Kt<gion. rhe reverse flow of migrants
returning from  other European countries and from  ex-Portuguese colonies which
occurred during the 1970s has been mainly tO the towns, which have expanded
rapidly. Nevertheless, abotu' 76% of the population lives in rural areas, and
more than 50% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture, the proportion
being in each case the highFst for any rebion of Portugal.  More thani 50% of
the population is below  19 :;:ars of age, and about 15% over 65.
3.03     The region consists of the following f5ve broad agroecological zones:
(i)  Mountain Areas.  These lands are at an altitude of 750 to 1200m
with an annual rainfall cf 700 to 1500 mm and experience long and
cold winters with late spring and early autumn frosts. The most
common arable rotation is potatoes - rye on the better soils, with
rye - fallow on the more marginal soils combined with permanent
rainfed mountain pastures, winter irrigated valley bottom pastures
and forest lands. Seed potatoes have been an important cash crop,
with livestock products growing in importance. As these mountain
areas have poor productive potential, the long term strategy is to
move towards a combination of permanent grassland,-, tree crops and
forestry.
(ii) High Valley Areas. These are high valleys at an altitude of 650 to
800m with an annual rainfall of 500 to 700mm, and low temperatu:.s
in spring and autumn and hot, dry, summers. Soils are generally
more fertile than in the mountain areas but the dominant arable
rotation is still potatoes and cereals. While rainfed olives,
grape vines and almonds are important, the main irrigated crops are
potatoes (for consumption), wheat, maize and some fodder crops.
The latter is based on traditional upland irrigation practiced on
some 9000 ha, of which an area of 1500 ha has been rehabilitated
under the ongoing TOM project.



(iii)  Miranda Plateau.  This vast area of gently undulating land at an
altitude of 650 to 750mn with an annual rainfall of 500 to 700mm is
dominated by long cold winters and hot, dry summers. Crop rotation
on the mainly shallow, low fertility soils is cereal - fallow
based, combined with some livestock on low-quality permanent
pastures.
(iv)  Hot Climate Area (Terra Quente).  This zone is the lower part of
Tras-os-Montes with an elevation of between 300 to 450m and an
annual rainfall of 400 to 600 mm experiencing a Mediterranean type
of climate with relatively mild winters and dry, hot summers giving
a considerably extended growing season. Where summer irrigation is
available, the cropping potential is greatly enhanced, as the soils
and climate are suitable for a wide range of horticultural fruits
and vegetables.
(v)   Valleys of the River Douro and its Tributaries.  These steep sided
valleys with very broken and variable topography have rainfall
averaging 800 to 1000mm in the west declining to 400 to 500mm in
the east with predominanitly Mediterranean tyr  climate.  rhe main
crop is grape vine. Soils are genierally of schist or granite, very
shallow and low in nutrients and offer prospects mainly for port
wine, table wine andrd  in some areas, olives and almonds.
Agricultural potential is founded on port wine, which is probably
the only well developed, vertically integrated agroindustry in the
region. However, a high percentage of old vines needs replanting
and moderni methods of vine husbandry have to be introduced.
The region has unexploited potential in the production of high quality wood,
with about 40% of the area covered by forests. Agrotourism is also being
promoted, especially in the moulntaini areas which are partially being converted
into grasslands a-id forestry.  The main tourist activities are those such as
bird watching, hunting, and camping which would tiot affect adversely the
natural ecological balance.  Othet  similar activities include organized sales
of local products, promotion of wild life game reserves, fish farming, stud
farming and the organization of riding schools and camping.  Authorities also
intend to utilize the national parks tor agrotourism Lnd wood prcduction and
to make greater use of hydroelectric power, given that the region produces 80%
of the national supply.
3.04        Land and Water Resources.  Of the region's 1.3 million ha, some
550,000 ha are cultivated, about 95,000 ha are of forests and 200,000 ha,
communal lands used mostly for extensive grazing. Some 452 of the cultivated
land is occupied by field crops (mainly rye, wheat and potatoes), and 242 by
orchards (mostly vineyards, olives and mixed fruits, almonds and nuts); 222 is
fallow, and the remaining 3% is under permanent pastures. The Douro and its
tributaries are the major rivers. Most of them originate in Spain and
maintain a permanent flow of water. (There are, however, no riparian issues
between the two countries.) In addition, there are many small streams.
Conditions are not favorable for groundwater storage, but some locations
indicate groundwater potential. Of about 25,000 shallow wells in 16
municipalities, only 2,500 yield sufficient water for irrigation, covering, in
total, about 3,760 ha.  .he other wells are used only for drinking water.
Hydrological features an< moorphological conditions are favorable for the
development of medium-size irrigation perimeters, provided that storage dams
are erected.



- 8 -
3.05       Irrigation.  An estimated total area of 42,600 ha is expected to be
shortly under irrigation, including areas benefitting from works under the
ongoing TOM Project. About 75% of this area is occupied by "lameiros", or
permanent pastures, which are kept saturated during the winter months in order
to m'aintain ground level temperatures. About 33,000 ha are irrigated by
collective schemes. Most installations are of a traditional type, constructed
a long while ago by groups of farmers and serving small areas seldom exceeding
a few hundred hectares. Only rarely have storage tanks been built for
extending the water supply into the summer months, and usually supplies are,
therefore, inadequate from the end of spring. The average irrigated area per
farm is around one hectare. The main deficiency of the ongoing schemes is the
diminishing water availability as summer progresses and requirements
increase. Four medium-size schemes are now equipped for irrigation including
the 40-year old gravity Chavez scheme (920 ha) and three sprinkler irrigation
schemes totalling 930 ha built in the 70's. Of the latter, only 500 ha are
actively irrigated at present, organizational problems and farm fragmentation
being the main constraints. The region is however, gradually resciving these
problems; for example, in the Azebo project (1600 ha) completed in lq88, a
water users' association is being established to take over management
responsibilities. Low pressure, flexible hose sprinkler equipment is being
adopted as a means of dealing with the fragmented parcels of small holdings.
3.06       Rural Infrastructure.  The region is handicapped by a poorly
developed rural infrastructure. The road density (km of road per kmi) in
the region is 0.2.8 compared with 0.33 for Portugal as a whole. Although a
network of paved roads exists, many municipalities are badly served. In other
areas, roads are circuitous, complicating connections between various parts of
the region. Traffic flow maps show low levels of movement by road between the
regioni and the rest of the country. However, a new motorway connecting the
region o the city of Porto on the west and to Spain in the east is under
construction, which, when completed, will speed up access to those important
markets. The region generates one third of Portugal's electric power, and
about eighty percent of hydroelectric power, and most comnunities have
electrical connections, but regional consumption per capita is only about one
quarter of the national average. The percentage of homes served by potable
water is low (34%, compared to 52% at the national level), and the centrally
located water systems in some small comm-u.ities are o.ten in danger of
contamination.
3.07       Living Standards and Poverty.  The standard of living in the region
is poor by European standards; per capita inccme (US$1,200) was about 422 of
the national level of US$2,800 in 1987. The rate of illiteracy is about 25X.
The rates of infant mortality and maternal death are much higher than the
national averages. Schooling for most children is in one-or two-room village
schools, where four years of basic primary education are provided. Public
transportation is inadequate. Better social facilities are concentrated in
the larger towns, with a significant proportion of poor farming communities
having only limited access to such facilities. During the last ten years,
however, conditions have improved to some extent, thanks to the infrastructure
constructed under the ongoing TOM project, the recent i.flow of EEC resources
and private imoigrant remittances.
B. Agricultural Production and Potential
3.08       Agricultural Production.  Crop yields in the region vary widely,
F   ';ff r nr - in  -rn rlim-t-ir ronditions and farm management



- 9 -
practices. Based on data for 1980 to 1985, estimated average yields, in
metric tons per hectare, for five main field crops were as follows: potatoes
11.0, rye 0.9, wheat 1.2, maize 0.9, and barley 0.8. Their production in 1986
was estimated to be:  potatoes 305,000 tons (271 of Portugal's total
production), rye 61,000 tons (one half of national production), wheat 26,000
tons, and maize 63,000 tons. The region also produced about 18% of Portugal's
olive oil, and 15 to 20X of the country's wine (including all of its Port
wine). An estimated 108 million litres of wine were producei in the region in
1986, including some 80 million litres of Port wine. Livestock plays an
important role in the region, with an estimated 90,000 cattle, 250,000 sheep,
and 145,000 pigs. Milk production is estimated at about 16,000 tons per
year.
3.09        Production Potential.  Because of the competition that traditional
subsistence agricultural production (wheat, beets) will face after Portugal's
full accession to the EEC, TOM's production structure will have to be changed
so as to place more emphasis on products in which the country has a
comparative advantage and which are not in surplus in the EEC. The following
paragraphs deal with some of the activities with a good potential.
3.10        Port Wine.  Most of the Port wine production is transported by road
to Porto and exported mair.ly to the UK, Germany and France. Because the
replanting of vineyards is meant to keep the level of Port wine production
within the limits of its present export potential and due to the special
quality of Port wine, no major difficulties in marketing within the EEC are
foreseen.
3.11        Potatoes and Rye.  The domestic demand for potatoes in PortugFl is
increasing and this region has also an advantage in being able to produce an
early crop for markets in no,-thern Europe. Seed potato production, however,
requires modernization if it is to survive the competition of lower priced
imports from Denmark, Scotland and Ireland. Further, the Seed Potato Union of
Cooperatives will have to seek closer links with the European producers to
acquire the necessary know-how and technology to remain competitive. In
addition, there is a growing demand for rye products in northern Europe for
use in specialized high fibre breads and breakfast cereals. With both rye and
potatoes, there is a need to test local varieties and _ompare them with newly
introduced varieties on the basis of flavor, early maturity and suitability
for specialized markets. The present low use of chemical fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals are said to increase the marketability of the
region's products in the EEC.
3.12        Horticultural Crops.  A wide range of fruits and vegetables can be
grown, particularly with irrigation, in the Hot Climate zone.  These include
melon, strawberry, courgette, cauliflower, cabbage, sweet corn, peppers and
iceberg lettuce. With a good diurnal temperature range, quality should be
high and farmers can be expected to respond to specific market requirements in
the future. The main opportunity would be to supply out of season vegetables
and fruits to northern European countries such as Germany, Brita:.n, Belgium,
Denmark and France.
3.13        The potential exists through the use of covered plastic structures
and plastic soil mulches to extend the growing season to produce out of season
horticultural crops. Similarly, there is also a possibility of producing high
value cut flowers (gladioli, roses and carnations) for the EEC market. Such
intensive production under plastic is a high value farming system whiuh can be



- 10 -
adapted well on small farms and irregular plot sizes, as has been successfully
demonstrated in Italy, Cyprus and Greece.
3.14       Fruits, Olives, Wine and Nuts.  The region, particularly the hot
climate zone, produces small quantities of cherries, peaches, nectarines,
apples and pears, all of which have good markets in northern Europe.
Secondly, this zone is also a suitable area for providing table olives and
some trees have already been planted with drip irrigation in the Vila Floor
area. Thirdly, quality table wine is produced in small quantities, and some
districts and cooperatives already produce high quality wines (for example,
Mesao Fria, Murca and High Douro) for marketing in Portugal.  However, as for
table olives, the market for quality Portuguese table wines in the EEC has yet
to be established.  Finally, chestnuts, almonds and hazelnuts are grown in the
region, but many of the plaintings are old and in marginal areas. There is a
demand for these three species of corifectionary quality, particularly
hazelnuts which are used in breakfast cereal. Small amounts of chestnuts are
already being exported to Brazil and 'ermany, and inquiries have been rece.ved
for processed chestnuts and almonds.
3.15       Dried Fruits.  Small amounts of raisins and sultanas are produced
in the Douro Zone and prune varieties of plum are grown in the Hot Climate
Zone. Since there are imports of this produce into the EEC from North Africa,
USA and the Middle East, an opportunity may exist to develop production in TOM
using a combination of local and imported varieties.
3.16       Cork Oak.  Historically, the upland areas were important producers
of cork oak but much of this potential has been destroyed by fires and changes
in cultivation.  Opportunities, however, exist in selected areas for long-term
reforestation based on cork oak as one of the species.
3.17       Livestock Products.  The region produces milk, local cheeses and
cooked or smoked meats (local Chavez ham and sausages), mainly for local
consumption with some marketed in the rest of Portugal. The market for milk
is expanding within the country and there is an effort to develop markets
within the EEC for specialized dairy products, especially goat and sheep
cheeses and processed meats. This will, however, require close attention to
quality control and marketing.
3.18       Pasture and Le-ume Seed Production.  With the promotion of
livestock in the mountain and high valley regions, the use of improved
pastures and temporary leys is being encouraged but there is a shortage of
certified seed of local and improved grasses and legumes. Farmers are already
experienced in producing seed potatoes, and there is scope for introducing
this new option.
3.19       Wild Life j:.. Fish Production.  There is potential for wild life
production in integrated farming/forestry units. New varieties of crops will
have to be cultivated to achieve better use of valley floors and hill sides
similar to the experience in other European countries under the EEC policy of
upland development. Intensive rearing of game birds (pheasant, partridge,
quail, snipe and duck) for release and controlled hunting on the upland scrub
and forest areas is feasible. Similarly, opportunities exist to expand
existing fish farming operations, particilarly trout, for stocking lakes and
rivers for licensed fishing. New experiments are also being undertaken in
production methods and conservation techniques for black berries, raspberries,
strawberries, medicinal plants, mushrooms, honey and truffles.



- 11 -
C. Agroindustries
3.20       ARroindustries.  Agroprocessing is an important industrial activity
in TOM. This sub-sector comprises at present 54 cooperatives, a large number
of (mainly small) private firms and one large state-owned corporation, the
"Complexo Agroindustrial do Cachao" (CAICA). The five major categories of
production are: wine, olive oil, dairy products, processed fruits and
vegetables, and meat, with wine and olive oil amounting to about 652 of
total. Wine making is the main agroindustrial activity in TOM. Port wine is
Portugal's main agricultural export. About 50X of regional output is produced
by 34 cooperative wineries and the balance by about 30 wineries operated by
Port wine exporters, and by a few independent private producers. TOM is the
second largest producer of olive oil in Portugal, with about 18Z of the
national production. The relatively favorable natural conditions of the
region enable good quality olive oil, with a low acid content, to be
produced.  The industry comprises about 220 plants, with most of the output
being produced by 18 cooperatives and a few medium-sized private firms.
3.21       Based on units organized in the private sector by entrepreneurs or
farmers coming together in cooperatives, the agroindustries sub-sector is
rapidly expanding in TOM as in other parts of the country, as a key factor in
strengthening the competitiveness of Portuguese agriculture in the EEC
market. On the basis of recent experience, such units are exoected to help
improve primary production as well, in terms of higher efficiency and cost
reduction, and of responsiveness to the demand requirements in the matter of
quality and in prompt deliveries of stipulated amounts of raw material by
agreed dates.
D. Agricultural Services
3.22       Agricultural Research.  The organization of agricultural research
in TOM is weak. At present, research is limited to that carried out on six
experimental stations managed by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DRATM), demonstrations at a National Institute of Agricultural
Research (INIA) station, some trials conducted by the Agricultural Institute
of Braganca (IAB) and limited work done by staff of the agricultural faculty
of the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro in Vila Real (UTAD). Some
positive experimental results have been obtained, though not yet tested under
farm conditions, for farm breeding (Triticale), seed mix for tempciary and
permanent pastures in mountain areas, and vineyard mechanization. There is no
central coordination of research priorities, methodology or financing.
3.23       It is as a step towards better coordination that the Government
created in 1987 the Institute of Agricultural Development of the Northern
Region (IDARN) which brings together all institutions at regional level
interested in agricultural research. The Institute is charged with (i) the
identification and elaboration of research programs; (ii) the establishment of
criteria for priorities in program financing; (iii) the selection of
institutions to carry out the programs; (;v) the supervision of program
execution; and (v) the evaluation of research results.
3.24       Agricultural Extension.  Extension is the responsibility of
Extension Service Directorate (DSE) of the Regional Office of the Ministry of
Agriculture located at Vila Real. The DSE consists of a farmer training
division, which undertakes training for young farmers and courses for
extension agents at three new training centers, and the farm management
division, which assists farmers in basic farm accountancy. The region is



- 12 -
managed by a Chief. Field extension staff report directly to the regional
director. These zonal offices employ about 120 technicians of whom 56 are
responsible for extension. There is no direct line management between the DSE
and extension staff and, mainly because of logistical problems, actual
contact is limited. The agrarian zonal chief is the main organizer of field
extension staff. Little linkage exists between research and extension.
3.25       Because of the paucity of funds for recruiting new staff, increases
in staffing have been temporary and at the expense of the operating budget.
Thus, of the 120 extension staff working in DRATM, 30 are on short-term,
60-day contracts renewed regularly. Regional distribution of extension staff
is uneven, ranging from less than 450 farmers per technician in the Douro 'one
to almost 2300 in the mountain areas. DRATM has also to administer a large
and complex set of regulations governing EEC compensation measures of support
disbursed to many farmers. Extension agents are required to carry out these
tasks because of the general shortage of staff and because of their knowledge
of farmers and presence in the field. As a result of this heavy burden, the
agents have been unable to carry out field extension activities adequately,
visiting farms sometimes only for administrative duties.
3.26       Cooperatives.  There are three production cooperatives in TOM and
half a dozen producers' groups. More importantly, there are 73 cooperatives
with an estimated membership of about 40,000, which are engaged in the
processing and marketing of agricultural products and in the supply of inputs.
About 80% of these cooperatives specialize in a single line of business, while
others have wider functions. Cooperatives are usually grouped into unions
which may be engaged in some commercial or industrial activity (e.g. wine
bottling, import of seed potatoes) or simply act as representative bodies.
The role of the cooperatives is significant in respect of wine, olive oil,
dairy and seed potatoes industries, and somewhat limited in marketing fruits
and vegetables.
3.27       Cooperatives are expected to become more cost-conscious and
market-oriented as they begin to feel the impact of the EEC membership on
their competitiveness. As for the rehabilitation and technological upgrading
of their facilities, substantial credit will be needed, as owners' equity and
EEC financing are not expected to be sufficient. Financial support for the
establishment of producers' groups is already available under EEC schemes and
the most pressing need is to strengthen DRATM's support for promoting these
groups (para 4.06).
3. 8       Agricultural Credit.  In recent years the proportion of
agricultural credit with maturities of less than a year has been about 85% of
total credit, limiting prospective investment and capitalization of the
sector. Steps are being taken to decontrol interest rates. BOP determines a
series of lending and deposit rates based on maturity. The medium-term
lending rate at present is 17%. The responsibility for agricultural credit in
the region is shared between the Financirg Institute for the Development of
Agriculture and Fisheries (IFADAP), commercial banks, and agricultural credit
cooperatives (CCAMs). IFADAP is the national financial institution, which is
empowered to refinance agricultural loans made by banking institutions,
administer subsidy payments, establish technical and financial regulations for
credit operations to agriculture and fisheries, and provide guarantees to
banking institutions where normal loan collaterals are not available. In
addition, starting from 1986, IFADAP has also been assigned responsibility for



- 13 -
administering FEOGA "Orientation" grants and funding allocated for Portuguese
agriculture and fisheries under the EEC. The institution is managed by a
Board appointed jointly by the Ministry of Agricuiture (MAPA) and the Ministry
of Finance, upon the reconmnendation of the Bank of Portugal. In Lhe TOM
region, IFADAP has a regional office at Vila Real wiLh some technical staff
and a branch in Chavez.
3.29       Several of the country's commercial banks have branches throughout
the region, but those most active in lending to agriculture and related
activities are the Caixa General de Depositos (CGD), Banco Pinto e Sottomayor,
and the Banco Nacional de Fomento. The performance of CGD and other
conmercial banks is generally satisfactory in terms of cost recovery rates,
adequate provision for doubtful debts, levels of profits, competent
management, experienced staff and appropriate infrastructure at the head
office and branch levels. Their financial situation would qualify them to
continue participation in extending Bank-financed credit to at iculture. CGD,
with its 145 branches, of which 10 are in the project area, is, among the
PBIs, the most important source of credit to the agricultural sector,
particularly for medium- and long-term loans. Furthermore, it is the most
important depository of savings, which are increasing steadily. CGD is
adequately staffed and has a record of good management. It is the only PBI
with a sizable technical unit consisting of several agronomists and economists
at headquarters level.
3.30       Agricultural credit cooperatives (CCANs) constitute the major
source of credit for agriculture. This credit system has witnessed
substantial development during the past few years, both at the national level
(and in TOM), with 226 CCAMs in the country with some 150,000 members, 50%
more than in 1984.  They function according to a statute of independent credit
cooperatives with limited liability, each with its own management and internal
control of accounts. By law their loan operations are restricted to meeting
only the credit needs of their agricultural members, and they are exempted
from paying income taxes. A central organization, known as the Agricultural
Central Cooperative Credit Bank (CCCAM) serves as a clearing house for the
surpluses and deficits in terms of liquid resources for all the CCAMs; it also
pruvides technical assistance to them and represents them officially.
However, the accounts of the CCCAM and the CCAMs are not consolidated and
remain distinct. As of June 30, 1987, CCCAM's balance sheet (Annex l,
Table 5) reports its total assets at about Esc. 34.1 billion (US$253 M) or
about 15% of the ent4re agricultural cooperative cred;- system.
3.31       An analysis of the CCAMs' financial statements (Annex 1, Table 6)
indicates that, though their total assets are substantial (US$ 1.4 billion),
they constitute only about (4%) of total credit of the banking system. Given
the limited role of uther sources such as commercial banks in financing
agriculture, this is an indication of the limited contribution of credit to
the development of the sector. CCAMs' loan collection procedures are
efficient and are fully supported by the government, and recovery rates on the
loan portfolio are satisfactory (90%). Returns on net worth (18%) and on
assets (5%) are, in general, satisfactory. However, as the debt to net worth
ratio is extremely high (48:1), profitability is low. About 84% of their
financial resources originates from time and sight deposits. The authorities
recognize that the CCAMs system must be strengthened so as to make its
operation more competitive and profitable and enable it to play a more
important role in financing agriculture. There is a need to increase their
efficiency by devising standardized policies and procedures, streamlining the
organization and increasing revenues through improved banking activities.



- 14 -
3.32       In the project area there are 24 CCAMs, most of them small units
with an average of 4 staff per office. Though the region produces 15% of the
overall agricultural GDP, lending to the sector in the region is only 62 of
national agricultural credit. Further, although CCAMs have an extensive net
work of offices (24) in the region, they process only about 60% of the
regional agricultural credit. Action is, therefore, needed to (1) increase
their efficiency through training and technical support; (ii) extend their
banking activities; and (iii) reduce the number of offices to gain economies
of scale. In general they have to improve their imnage as banking institutions
which can mobilize resources and provide funds to the private sector so that
entrepreneurs can take advantage of the investment opportunities opening up in
the region.
E. Institutional Structure
3.33       Apart from the credit institutions mentioned earlier, the
institutional structure for project implementation in the TOM consists of the
Coordination Commission fot the Northern Region (CCRN), Direccao Regional de
Agricultura de Tras-Os-Montes (DRATM), and the municipalities. Of these, the
CCRN is the most importart. Established in the 1960s as an autonomous agency,
CCRN was integrated in 1986 in the Ministry of Planning and Territorial
Administration (MPAT). Its primary responsibility is to promote and
coordinate development prograiiis at the regional or sub-regional level, in
collaboration with cer.tral authorities, local governments and private
entities. In addition, CCRN (i) administers funds for infrastructure and
industrial development provided by the ERDF; (ii) supports local governments
through the offices of technical support (GATs) in the areas of civil works
and physical planning and provides needed engineering expertise to assist
municipalities in carrying out infrastructural investment; (iii) provides
support to local private consulting agencies such as the Offices for
Enterprise Development (GAEs) which assist entrepreneurs in project
preparation; and (iv) monitors environmental issues in the region. CCRN has
been the main implementing agency of the ongoing TOM project, with its
President as the Project Coordinator, and has ensured through the GATs that
the project investments were carried out satisfactorily.
3.34       CCRN's central offices are located in Porte and include four
principal Directorates (Planning and Development, Local Governments, Physical
Planning, Environment and Natural Resources) as well as other smaller units.
It has a staff of about 850, of whom 540 wurk in the Technical Support Offices
(GATs). Professional staff (engineers, economists, etc.) number about 270.
The 1988 budget amounted to about 0.9 million contos (US$ 6.6 million), mnost
of the funds being allocated for operating expenditures.
3.35       Regional Directorate for AgriculLure for Tras-os-Montes (DRATM).
DRATM, the regional office of MAPA, is in charge of the implementation of
policies and supervision of investments at the regional level. Its
respons'bi'ities include the construction of irrigation schemes and other
agricultural infrastructure, applied research, animal health, wocational
training for farmers, agricultural extension, and technical support to
farmers' associations and cooperatives. In June 1988 DRATM had a staff of
833, of which 125 were professionals (such as agronomists, veterinarians,
engineers, economists) and 373 technicians. DRATM has been actively involved
in the implementation of tUie on-going TOM project.



-15 -
3.36       DRATM's central services include seven directorates and a few
smaller, autonomous units, including (a) the Agricultural Planning Department;
(b) the Directorate for Extension Services; (c) the Directorate for Vineyards
Development; (d) the Directorate for Agricultural Structures; and (e) the
Directorate for Livestock anl Crop Development (DEPAP). The ce-itral services'
staff was 382 compared with 451 in the field offices.
3.37       Municipalities.  The municipalities ("concelhos") are the basic
administrative units and are divided intc sub-mttnicipalities ("frequesias")
and villages ("aldeias"). Municipalities are responsible, inter alia, for the
construction, operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure such as local
roads, water supply systems and sewage disposal schemes. Their main sources
of financing are the allocations from the national budget. Taxes imposed by
the "concelhos" are of relatively minor importance, consisting mainly of fire
service charges, vehicle registration fees and tourism taxes. Borrowing
having been significantly restricted by law; the municipalities have had to
depend largely on ERDF grants.
[V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Design
4.01       The principal objectives of .he proposed project are the
following: (i) transformation of the agricultural production structure of the
region into a smaller but more efficient sector, mainly focussed on the most
productive areas of Chavez, Terra Quente and the Douro Valley; (ii) the
promotion of value added in ag-iculture through an expanding agroindustrial
sector based on improved processing and marketing facilities and mobilization
of entrepreneurial skills; (iii) reduction of large intra-regional differences
in employment; (iv) achievement of steady economic growth; and (v) increase of
regional family incomes. It is on the increased role of the private sector
that the project activity is largely focussed. Thus, project investments will
mostly be undertaken by (or benefit) private farmers and cooperatives and
private agroindustrial concerns. The project will also help promote
agricultural support services (research, extension, and marketing) to be
increasingly handled by cooperatives and private consultants. Tc will also
contribute substantially to reducing poverty in this less developed region by
increasing the income of farmers and rural employment through agroindustrial
investment and helping to attract substantial EEC investment in infrastructure
and industry. Further, the project will contribute to the preservation of the
environment and to the natural ecological balance, among others, by converting
some mountain areas to agro-forestry and by preserving and developing some
national and natural parks. The ROP and the EEC look upon the project as the
basic investment package for a medium term regional development program, which
would, in due course, include non-agricultural components such as light
industries, services, and tourism. The project seeks to establish an approach
towards primary production which is consistent with the trends of European
experience and based on high quality products with distinctive local
characteristics, rational land management and conservation practices, vertical
integration and local agro-based industries. At the same time, regional
development on these lines cannot be accomplished unless the infrastructure of
facilities and services is strengthened. To achieve these objectives, the
project has been so designed as to strengthen agricultural services (research
and extension) as well as support i.a terms of credit, irrigation and
4nfr triir'tir f-riliti-' inrle;iriinc rnads, wnter supply and irrigation. On



- 16 -
the basis of the experience of the ongoing TOM project, the institutional
capacity available in the regio,l is considered adequate for carrying out the
proposed project and supervising its implementation.
B. Detailed Feat ures
Agricultural ,Services
4.02       Applied Research.  Research activities would build on the
on-station research undertaken under the TOM project, concentrating on on-farm
research to test those results and on a study of typical farming systems.
These efforts would be carried out in the major agroecological zones,
particularly *n the more productive areas and in cooperation with the
extension services.  On-station research would focus on finding solutions for
problems identified at the farm level. The research pricrities to be
determined by DRATM in consultation with IDARN will include: (i) cropping
patterns and production systems centered arotnd potatoes, cereals and
livestock; (ii) improved forage production and conservation; (iii) improved
water use in irrigated areas and selection of on-farm equipment appropriate to
the small farm situation with fragmented cultivation units; (iv) variety
testing of improved wine and table grapes, fruit trees, nuts and vegetables;
and (v) potential new crops with special attention to the -establishment of
farm-forestry units for the development of agrotourist and wild life
production (para 2.09). In addition, specific researcb topics to be
determined by IDARN would be investigated by appropriate institutions such as
the Universities of Lisbon and Porto.
4.03        The project would finance equipment for field trials, incremental
staffing, vehicles and operational costs at the DRATM experimental farms as
well as operating costs for other staff involved in contracts for specific
research topics. Additional research staff would also be provided to the
DRATM experimental farms to prepare an expanded research program.
4.04        Extension Services.  The proposals for agricul.ural extension seek
to remove certain institutional constraints. Thus, as detailed below,
provision is made for freeing extension staff (56) from administrative duties;
reorgani.!-ng and strengthening DRATM; relocating extension staff in two
cooperatives; and training or retraining staff:
(a)    Reorganization and Strengthening of the DRATM and Supporting
Directorates. This would include provision for: (i) 33 additional
field staff plus 10 extension coordinators in agreement with thF
following deadlines: 13 new field staff and 10 extension
coordinators by December 31, 1989 and 20 remaining field staff by
December 31, 1990; (ii) subject matter specialists to be located at
the DRATM experimental farms; (iii) formation of producers' groups;
(iv) establishment of a Regional Documentation and Information Unit;
and (v) replacement of 129 vehicles and purchase of office and field
equipment.
(b)    Secondment of Extension Staff to Cooperatives, including
(i) provision of salaries for 6 agricultural techn:.c-.ans to be
seconded to two cooperatives (the Seed Potatoe Growers' Cooperative
Union and the Lactimontes Dairy Cooperative Union); and
(ii) provision of 6 vehicles and financing of travel, costs and
support equipment for extension staff.



- 17 -
(c)    Staff Training.  Using existing facilities wherever possible, the
project would prepare by September 30, 1989 a training program for
extensionists, satisfactory to the Bank, composed of: (i) basic
training (including training in operating the T&V system) for
technicians to be newly recruited and for about 20-30 agents who have
not been previously trained; (ii) refresher courses for all extension
staff; (iii) specialized training for extension coordinators and
other specialized staff; (iv) field day seminars and open days for
farmers; and (v) specialized consultant services for training farmer
groups.
Institutional Strengthening
4.05     Strengtnening of Technical and Planning Services.  The project would
finance vehicles, equipment and salaries to support regional services for
project-related activities. An Irrigation Unit (IU) in charge of new
irrigation schemes would be established within DRATM's Planning Department,
with an agronomist, a civil engineer, an agricultural economist and three
technicians (para 4.16).   The Department would also be supported by 6
agricultural economists and 13 junior technicians for research and production
support activities. Four agronomists and an agricultural economist would be
provided for a Planninig Unit for undertaking, among other functions, farm
managemLnI  ana'ysis and farmers training.  Three Training Centers, housing for
extensionists and local DRATM offices would be constructed and equipped and 30
vehicles would be provided to DRATM. CCRN's central services and the
Technical Support Offices (GATs) would continue to receive financial support
for salaries, as under the ongoing TOM project and for 50 vehicles, computers
and office equipment.
4.06     Strengthening of DRATM's Cooperatives Service.  To enhance DRATM'-
support for the development of cooperatives, the project would provide funus
for: two addltional staff for DRATM's Cocperatives Development Unit and a
training program for cooperative personnel. Two additional staff of DSE-AG
would also be provided to the Farm Management D4vision for assisting
agroindustrial and marketing cooperatives and fo.- promoting new producers'
groups and of other associations such as those of irrigation beneficiaries.
The project would also support restructuring efforts in the cooperative sector
by financing training of technical and managerial staff.
4.07     Support to Offices for Enterprise Development (GAEs).  By providing
technical support, CCRN would help the private sector to establish two GAEs
staffed with 4 professionals, in Mirandela and Vila Real, similar to the one
existing already in Braganca. Their main responsibility is to support local
enLrepreneurs in getting investment projects ready by preparing appraisal
reports and domestic and export marketing strategies, and setting up an
accounting and management information systems. They would also provide advice
on priority programs financed by the Government and the EEC, market
intelligence, and guidance on project implementation.
4.08     Support for the Agricultural Cooperative Credit System.  To
strengthen the CCAMs Credit System, thie project will finance a study which
will cover the following issues:
(i) A charter to allow CCCAM to become a commercial bank with
authorization to finance all agricultural production activities as
well as all other related rural activities;



- 18 -
(ii) consolidation of the accounts and definition of CCCAM's role in
the management, administration and supervision of CCAMs;
determination of standards for an adequate capital structure for
CCCAM;
(iii) an overall medium- and long-term plan including trainirg needs for
staff and management, infrastructural and financial requirements,
and establishment of an efficient management information system;
(iv) a marketing program to increase CCAMs' banking activities and to
promote CCCAM's participation in tne capital market; and
(v)  enhancement of the image of the CCAMs' oftices and determination
of the minimum volume of business necessary for them to operate as
viable units.
The proposed btudy to be carried by Decemter 31, 1990 would be complementary
to the ongoing study of the Banco do Portugal on the institutional
rest-ucturing of agricultural credit and would take into accouat its
findings. Further, t!e project would finance an institution building program
which would include; (i) the provision of 4 vehicles for the National
Federation of the CCAMs (FENACAM) in Vila Real as well as office equipment and
a computer system connecting regional CCAMs with the CCCAM in Lisbon; (ii) a
training program for the personnel of the regional CCAMs, including courses in
accounting and auditing, control, computer skills and administration; and
(iii) establishment of a team composed of 3 economists/accountants and 3
agronomists, who woald help in the preparation of investment projects. Ihis
staff would be assigned to FENACAM's offices in the region and would work on a
rotating basis with all CCAMs. The latter would progressively assume the
costs of these services.  The project would also finance 20 man-months of a
training program for FENACAM and CCAMs personnel in similar credit
institutions in other EEC countries.
Agricultural Credit
4.09     Modernization of Agroindustry, Agrictl1tural Marketing and Development
of Parks. Agroindustrial production would have a significant impact on the
volume of production and exports to the EEC due to the diversity of products
and the d'mand for special products from the region such as Port wine, fruits
and vegetables and ulive oil. The demand for investment in the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of agroindustry and agricultural
marketing in the region has been conservatively estimated at about US$60.0
million (8.0 billion Escudos). This estimate represents a proportion (40X) of
the investment demand as assessed by the Institute for the Marketing of
Agroindustrial Products (IAPA) for the next seven years, based on (a) the
extrapolation of the actual investment outlays of the last five years; (b) the
internal demand estimated with response to the prospective increase in GNP per
capita; and (c) increases in exports expected to be generated by accession to
the EEC. This estimate is also corroborated by a rough field survey of the
appraisal mission in the field. Financing would be provided for the
procurement of equipment for quality improvement, modern packaging, additional
processing lines, bottling lines, deep freezing and cold storage. Such
investment would allow Portuguese products to be upgraded to comparable EEC
market levels of quality and would result in higher sales and exports. This
would particularly be the case for port wine, teble wine and virgin olive oil
but would also apply, to some extent, to frozen fruits and vegetables, and
forest products (game, meat and berries) mainly exported to other EEC



- 19 -
4.10     Actual investment would proceed in accordance with  market demrand,
which is estimated to be roughly as foliows, by subsector: wine industr
(equipment and facilities for grapes reception, vinification, storage,
bottling and polluttion abatement) 40X; meat industry (construction of a new
slaughterhouse and rehabilitation of existing abattoirs; equipment and
facilities for meat processing) 20X; olive oil industry (substitution of
hydraulic presses with automatic processing lines; storage facilities;
bottling equipment) 12X; processing of fruits and vegetables (facilities and
equipment for table olives, vegetables, fresh fruits, almonds, chestnuts) 8S;
new products (berries, fungi, game, sheep and goat dairy products) 4X; dairy
industry (rehabilitation of a UHT milk plant; pollution abatement equipment;
vehicles for milk collection; cheese making equipment) 4%; and marketing
structures (storage facilities and grading and packing equipment for fruits,
vegetables and potatoes; construction of a regional wholesale market; storage
facilities for cereals; improvement of livestock fair grounds).
Vineyard Development
4.11     To respond to the growing demand for the Port wine by increasing the
productivity of vineyards in the Douro zone and to improve the quality of
grapes, the project would include the rehabilitation of 5,000 ha of aging and
low quality vineyards. About 3,500 ha of these would be repla.ated on the same
sites after clearing the old plants, while the cultivation of the balance of
1500 ha will be transferred to more productive areas in the Douro Valley where
Port wine used to be cultivated before the 'phylloxera" plant disease wiped
out plantations at the beginning of the century.
4.12     Credit would be provided to about 2000 farmers in support of this
program, to finance land clearing, terracing, destoning. erecting trellises,
fertilizer, vine seedlings and grafting, and various operations in the
vineyards during the five-year period before the r,ew vines begins to bear
significant producFion. The program would be based on the technology
developed by DRATM and applied successfully under the ..)M project. Small
farmers would be required to group themselves into associations so that
vineyards are of sufficient size to facilitate mechanization and institutional
financing. The Association of Port Wine gr:)wers (Casa do Douro) has agreel to
the design and objectives of this project component. Port wine is the most
important agriculture Eyport of Portugal and is mostly exported to Britain,
France end Germany (para 1.10). This is a product for whict. vertical
integration from producer to distribution exists, as individual vineyard
owners or cooperatives also own the processin.7 plants. Though the demand for
this wine of special quality has increased in recent years, the project will
only support replaating of vineyards for the purpose of maintaining or
improving the quality of Port wine, but not to increase its production.
Irrigation Development
4.13     Rehabilitation of Traditional Schemes.  The project would include
rehabilitation of about 220 of the most promising of the estimated 950 small
traditional irrigation schemes (average 50 ha) in the project area. About 150
sucLt schemes were rehabilitated under TOM project. Rehabilitation would
consist of repair or reconstruction of diversion weirs, construction of new
concrete small canals, and structures and offtakes equipped with steel sliding
gates. Rehabilitation is expected to reduce water losses in the conveyanre
system from 502 to 20%, increasing water availability by about 60%.



- 20 -
4.14     The technical and cost standards to be applied for the construction
of the schemes result from a review with GATs of the experience gathered in
constructing similar schemes under the ongoing TOM project. The project would
provide funds for about 16,000m3 of concrete work to repair or construct
weirs, lining of 330,000 meters of existing earth canals, installation of
7,600 steel gates, and technical assistance for design and supervision. The
works could be implemented by force account with the prior approval of the
Bank, with farmers being re'-ponsible for minor works, on their own farms, or
under contracts awarded on the basis of LCB procedures for works of an amount
equivalent to US$120,000 and above.
4.15     New irrigation schemes.  Out of an identified potential of 63
schemes, about 18 new medium-sized irrigation schemes covering a total area of
about 6,360 ha, were chosen for implementation under the project as follows:
(i)   the Chavez Valley Perimeter involving the rehabilitation of an
existLng canal network serving 920 ha and development of new blocks
(1,360 ha), including the construction of 2 small storage dams and
related surface irrigation networks;
(ii)   about 14 irrigation schemes, mostly located in the north-western part
of the project area and totalling about 3,000 ha (214 ha average) of
arable land. These schemes would be based on modern irrigation
networks, supplied by water stored in small dams, 12 to 25m high; the
majority of the schemes would be equipped with a low-pressure piped
network allowing direct surface irrigation, or sprinkler irrigation
where farmers are able to procure a booster pump;
(iii)   2 mixed irrigation/drinking water schemes at Vila Pouca and Camba,
with a total coverage of approximTately 2,000 ha, still at the
identification stage.
Irrigation distribution systems have been designed for low-intensity
management and operation through their use of automatic water level and flow
control devices.
4.16     The new schemes to be accepted under the pruject would be constructed
mainly in the most productive areas such as Terra Quente and the Chavez
valley. It will be required that the schemes have a basic unit cost not
exceeding US$13,000 per ha and found to be economically viable using Bank
methodology. Assurances in this regard were obtained at negotiations. The 2
or 3 schemes to be constructed in the mountain area, considered to be
important for reasons of prevention of soil erosion and development of
agro-tourism, would be submitted to the Bank for prior review before their
inclusion for Bank financing.
Rural Infrastructure
4.17     The project is to provide a system of rural infrastructure, including
agricultural roads, national and natural parks roads, village and access
roads, water supply, sewerage and .:ural electrification for the benefit of
about 70,000 families. The following paragraphs describe the main elements of
this component.



- 21 -
4.18     Feeder Roads.  About 630 km of rural roads and 60 km of field roads
WOLIld he constructed or rehabilitated.  The largest part of the road net work
woul(d h)te t(r enhtianicing the marketing of the crops produced in the areas
irrigated( unrder the project.  The rural roads (caminhos rurais), with a 5-m
platform and 4--m asphalted carriage-way, would provide connection between
small villages and link them to the existing primary road network.  The field
roads (caminhos agricolas), with a 4-m platform and 2.5m gravelled
carriage-way, would facilitate access to the fields for agricultural machinery
and trucks for harvested crops. Also, about 100 km of park roads with a 5m
platform will be constructed to facilitate access to parks for tourists as
well as for marketing purposes (para 4.13).
4.19     Muni.ipal Roads.  To cover basic needs within the investment programs
of the municipalities, the project would include about one half of the 6-year
program drafted by the 6 Technical Support Offices (GATs) working for the
municipalities of the project area.  The actual inventory of works to be
finaniced tby thie project would be defined as required by CCRN, taking into
consideration municipalities' Friorities and a balanced distribution among
them.  Thte project would provide funds for the construction and/or improvement
of about 9) nle?w connecting roads for a total length of 380 km.  Design
standards tar threir construction are based on those satisfactorily applied
ulnder thl a)Tl goirig TOM project.
4.2()    'Village Streets.  Village streets in Tras-os-Montes are traditionally
conIStrLuc  ,d i1sing a surface of granite blocks after compaction of the
uniderlyin g *.ii .  The project would provide funds for the granite block
coveragte ortreets over a total area of about 450,000m2 in about 100
villages, inn urder to improve environmental and health conditions where
streets arc ini a deplorable condition, particularly during adverse weather.
The constLuction standards are the same as those applied by the GATs under the
TOM) prI .'(tt
4.21    khatQr SuppIy and Sanitation.  The project would include about 150
schemes tor dlrin king water supply and 40 for sewage disposal, to serve an
estimated total population of 72,000. Criteria and design standards for these
schemes are thte same as those satisfactorily used under the TOM project and
are availo,bie in the project file.  The project would not include house
connertionr for either water supply or sewage, which would be the
resporsibiliLy of individual beneficiaries. Average costs of recently
completed works are US$105,000 for water supply facilities and US$ 168,000 for
tne sewerage facilities. These costs compare favorably with Bankwide average
costs of similar schemes. Cost effective design during the implementation of
the TOM project has kept the cost of these schemes within appraisal
estimates. Considering an average population of about 600 inhabitants per
village, the per capita cost would be US$175 and US$280 for water supply and
sewerage respectively.
Rural Electrification
4.22     The project would provide funds for the implementation of 660 schemes
to link the 30 Kw. national grid to a number of isolated farms in need of
energy for processing equipment, irrigation pumps and household use. The
standar-ds of construction are those satisfactorily applied in the zone by the
Natiornal Electricity Power Authority (EDP) and are available in the project
file.



- 22 -
4.23     Conservation and Development of National and Natural Parks.  The
project would help promote three nationally protected areas on the basis of
activities that would help conserve their natural and cultural values 'nd
resources. The protected areas (See Map 21268) are the national park of
Peneda-Geres (70,290 ha), on the Spanish border, to the north-west of Braga,
the natural park of Montesinho (75,000 ha), also on the Spanish border,
immediately north of Branganca, and the natural park of Alvao (8,000 ha),
north-west of Vila Real. All three areas have historic, archeological, and
architectural features, natural scenery and unique native fauna and flora that
merit special conservation. The activities to be promoted are:
(a) agriculture (rehabilitation of traditional olive presses, improvement of
indigenous forest and forage, apiculture, aquaculture and construction of
rural roads); (b) tourism (construction of camp sites, mountain lodges and
scenic overlooks, horse riding, socio-economic surveys and development of
infrastructure); (c) alternative energy sources (identification of new sites
for, and rehabilitation of, traditional water power); and (d) nature
conservation (surveys of fauna and flora and environmental extension). Part
of the rural road development program (para 4.18) under the Project will be
devoted to construction of tributary roads to the existing communication
network within park areas.
Studies
4.24     Terms of reference and plans for studies, as needed to assist the
agricultural production structure of the region in a process of gradual
adaptation to new evolving market needs, would be submitted from time to time
to the Bank for approval. The project would finance the following studies:
(a) Irrigation Studies
(i) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Designs including assessment of
economic viability for new irrigation schemcs to be constructed under
the project; and (ii) studies to confirm design criteria of some
schemes; crop water requirements; water use efficiency for the
traditional and new irrigation schemes;
(b) Other studies. A series of studies are to be undertaken on the basis
of detailed recommendations to be made by IDARN; these are likely to
include the following:  (i) cropping patterns of production systems
for production of potatoes for seed and conswu.:ntion; livestock and
cereals since such production systems are still typical of a majority
of farms in the region; (ii) new or improved wine and table grape
varieties and the associated production system; (iii) technical
aspects of the production fruit and nut trees and vegetables,
especially for seasonal production for markets in Central and
Northern Europe; and (iv) market potential for new horticulture
products, dried fruits, cork oak; (v) Associative Vineyard
Development; (vi) study of the conditions and arrangements necessary
to encourage small farmer participation and to promote associative
replanting of vineyards in small farms in zones of the Douro valley;
and (vii) environmental quality studies. The project will provide
support for an on-going program of studies being undertaken in the
region to improve the quality of the environment and the maintenance
of national and natural parks.



- 23 -
C. Status of Engineering
4.25     Irrigation.  The irrigation feasibility studies and detailed
engineering have been found to be of a high standard. All necessary
investigations for dam design (drilling, seismic survey) have been carried
out. The quality of construction of the existing projects is excellent.
4.26     The status of engineering for new schemes is as follows:
- detailed designs have been completed for 3 small schemes totalling
about 600 ha;
- the feasibility study of the entire Chavez perimeter was completed
before the end of October 1988;
- the detailed design for the Camba multipurpose scheme (220 ha) is
completed; and
- the other 13 schemes have only been identified. Full feasibility
studies with preliminary and detailed designs would be carried out
during the project implementation and financed by the project.
4.27     Other engineering components.  The construction program for rural
infrastructure for the first year of the project including location and
installation, construction costs and implementation schedule has been
submitted to the Bank for review and found in line with project planning. The
details of works to bp performed during each future year would be submitted to
the Bank for approval one year ahead of time. The capacity of the
institutions in charge of project implementation (GATs, Electric Power
Authority etc.) to provide the expertise and manpower required for the
engineering and supervision work has been satisfactorily demonstrated during
the implementation of the TOM project and assessed to be adequate.
4.28     Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
seven year pe iod (Implementation Schedule Chart No. PK/W43673b).
Rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes would start in the first year of
the project with thirty schemes, and continue at the same rate until the end
of the project. The schedule for the new irrigation schemes has been
formulated taking into account a regular dam construction program, limiting to
three the number of dams simultaneously under construction, and progressively
increasing the pace without exceeding 1,400 ha per annum, based on the
progress of th  engineering studies.  The studies, altogether about 10 in
number, would be carried out at the rate of two to three per year.
4.29     Under the rural infrastructure component, construction of rural
roads, based on standards adopted under the TOM project, would begin in late
1989 with an initial yearly program of about 100 km and continue with an
annual program of the same magnitude in each following year.  Municipal and
village roads would be built at the rate of about 50 kms per year.  The water
supply and sewerage system based on the positive experiences of the TOM
project would also start in late 1989 and be built at a rate of about 20 water
supply and 10 sewerage schemes per year. Rural electrification would begin in
1989 and be completed by 1991. The agricultural credit component would be
implemented over the seven years of the project as determined by the demand
for such credit and the processing capacity of the intermediary institutions.
Agricultural research would be carried out over the life of the project, while
the measures for strengthening the extension service (including additional
staff recruitment) would be completed by the end of 1989.



- 24 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01             The total project cost, including physical and price cortinge-  ts
(USS 82.2 million) and recurrent costs (US$39 million) is estimated to be
about Escudos 66,868 million (US$415.8 million).  The local cost component is
estimated to be 722 of project costs or Escudos 48,125 million
(US$299.2 million). The foreign exchange component (282 of total project
costs) is about Escudos 18,743 million (US$116.6 million). Cost estimates are
based on data collected in mid-1988 adjusted to a January 1989 base cost, and,
include taxes and duties on vehicles and imported equipment and are derived
from unit prices obtained from similar works in the country. Quantities are
based on the models established for each kind of work; equipment cost
estimates are based on unit prices of similar esuipment procured in Portugal
and on price quotations from suppliers. Physical contingencies have been
assessed at 102 for civil works and 5S for other project investment costs.
Price escalation estimates assume increases in local currency cost of ,S% in
1988, 71 in 1989 and 51 from 1990 on, and in foreign exchange costs of ,  in
each of the years 1988 and 1989, and 31 thereafter. A constant purchasing
power parity exchange rate has been used over the life of the projert.
Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 1 below. The detailed _ost
breakdown is provided in Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4.
'AK
:ta   Ec.~. ,   asts    '-                                        - -t
-3; ::t~g.   *:''?; . ........ .:...                                  -- .  : -:  o- -    . -
A. 6G1 J.RAL. SERVICES
1. ...... ............. ..
2.  ta.~~~~~,~~oe               04~60,449    239.197   1,069,646         20              034       143      '"
2. Extension                ~. a                                                                                  . 1..
Sub-Total #MICILTAt  .   IMVCS               1i285,616     271 .336   1.557.152         17       3     8.068    1.871   1C,739          1
U. Avcultur al Credit
1. R;saret7 bI        t                  5.44,2      4.95.25   10.679,500          *7       22    39.202   34.450   7352 ::.
2. Aro-u*attie s4.11.000   2p330.741   7,160,741                                     33      15    33'310   16,074    .:34           13:
-*ToUil Agricultural CliERt         1, .14.250   7,325.99   1,.40.241                   41      37    72.512   50.524  123,036          41      37
C. ItrlcUtiUi
1. Tpa04.iorM  kF4Wu                     1. 433,1       14W3.47    .594.424         10        3     9,204    1,127   11,011          10       3
2. Im  Ic4tnes                           5.13.90644   1.949.1      7.106.0O9        26       15    35.440   13,501   49,021         .28      1I
546-Total Ipt1a.tiC                          60,52,021   2,132.662   8.7064412          25  12     45.324   14,7W    40.032             25     3l
t. loalIttook
Feoisv bob4                           6.155.971   19432.211   7,519.11            1,      1     42,495    98664   52.339          19      1
IOiueu.l bkm                          3#49717        621,114   4.3124013         19        9    24,123    5,711   2.625           19       9
2, X6  bes                               9.543.666   2.241.33  11915,201             19      25    WM.573   15.9    62,174           1t      25
2. NUWst. Swal  ad lord                  3.676.291      792,366   4,670.625          1       10    24,747    5.465   32.211          17      10
3, lral Clutnrtictis                       974.500       76,44   1,05444             7        2     6.734      s4      7,279          7       2
9.*-total Rural bffnfo4qtg,.l               1450,9166   3,132.444  17.641.311           1s      36   100,060   21.404  121.664          is      36
E. latitution Stroum
1. buxal PIfiC et 0.wgu                  1,F475,7,5 496m5   1.972t420               25        4    10.176    3425   13.603           25       4
2. Cs3,dt&ve7.417                                        330.167 *   32f7017   IV    t 04  26  1    1.637       574    2.21'         26       i
3. stdals                                  266.200       63.250      331.450        26        1     1.636       450    2.266         20       I
I.l-lotal InstitautiS   WWta       14        1,979.3M      645.162   29624.474          25       5    13.651    4.449   18.100          2 1      5
TOt  u.lM   CM67                             34.660124  13.5077U6  *367964                27     166   24 5,415   93157   32,571          2  17  30
X., al DMt         -inu                     2,62470    1 51,143   3.7626                        I6   15a101    7,267   240             31       8
Price CmntIrrmwi                           10.40.,434   4.07476  14,717.210                    S     40454   15,40    56,139           25       12
Total P0CT CO6TS                              4.12 ,25       9  ,16742,675   4.667.934    26     13    299,70  114,429  4150799           20 
___ ._... .. ..                                 ..                     .



- 25 -
B. Financing Plan
5.02     A Bank loan of US$90 million would be made to ROP for a period of 15
years including a five-year grace period at the prevailing World Bank rate.
It would finance approximately 90% of total foreign exchange cost, or 22X of
total project costs. EEC would finance 512 of total project costs through its
various programs, and the balance would be financed by ROP (12X),
sub-borrowers' equity contributions (6'), and financial intermediaries (CCAMs
and PBIs) (10). Table 2 below gives the detailed financing plan by component.
5.03     Agroindustrial investments would be eligible for EEC financing up to
601 of total cost. IBRD will finance 901 of the sub-loan amounts comprising
the estimated foreign exchange amount. The balance will be provided by CCAMs
and PBIs. Sub-borrowers' equity participation would constitute 152 of total
investment costs. Credit for the rehabilitation of vineyards would be
eligible for Er: financing amounting to 20% of total costs under FEOGA. IBRD
would finance 90% of the sub-loan amounts or 231 of total project cost.
Equity contribution from the sub-borrowers would be at least 15X. The balance
(42%) including local matching funds as required by EEC regulations would be
provided by other commercial sources or participating banks. Funds for
training under the agricultural extension and institution building components
are eligible for PEDAP financing up to 751 of total costs. Studies would be
eligible for 90% financing from the EEC. Imported vehicles would all be
financed by iBRD.
5.04     The irrigation and rural infrastructure components would be eligible
for EEC financing up to 75% of investment costs. The balance of 251 would be
financed by the Bank (20%) and ROP (52).
TABLE 2
IIRS   EEC    E iri,:i.,  Sources  ortusai  Total
----------  ------------  -------------  -----------  -------------  -------------  Locol (Excl.  Dutits I
Amot  2    tt   X   Aout    7  Aot  C   A4o0nt  t    Aount  x   Fo. Exch  Taxes)  Taws
....... ... e  e- ...... - - ..... .s.-:-.-   =-:-:.: ...   ......... ..... ........-..   *-s-.-_
A. 0i6f1cltural Services
1. bwtch             q39  29  1,892  59  -    -  -   -  364   11  3,194  1  476  2,701  18
7 ENi               19403 61  552  24          -     354  15  2.309    1  1,403  717 I1
3tX u ria ltwral S.vivcu  2,342  43  2.444  44  -   -  717   13  5.503    I  1,679  3.418  207
3.  ticu1ltr l Ctrit  35.001  23    54,562  36    22,23   15   40,734  27  0    0   153,220   37  63.161  "O,O  -
C.  vriortim         14.000  19    55.795  75  -    -  -   -  4.599    6    74,394   18  18.652  55.741
D. hoal La tuctuo   32.455  25    97,365  75  -    -  -   -  0    0   129,821   31  25.050  1047m  -
E. 1UtAt6    ISPU SASiU  59716  50    1.118  10  -  -  -  49488   40   11,321    3  49479  6.13  706
F.Itd6u                523 21  1.709 71  -    -  -   -  1"  8  2511    1  523   1.917   -
B. 1_w,t CMtI Of Proa-t  -                       -   391029 00 VON9 9   2.65   36144    -
Total Dlum t          *90.037  22   213.073  51    22,923    6   40,734  10    49.032   12   415,79"  100  116f.29  m.256  3
ma... a.. lowana.  ln ua a  .... .... Sn   SataSsaS  .      .. _ 
Ibt 6. 166 iSlE



- 26 -
C. Procurement
5.05        Equipment, goods, civil works, and services to be financed under
the proposed project would be procured as follows:
F;2:.REMEN7 4E "D0  Table 3
.5S flo;"
Catecorv ct
Expenditure         IB          LCB       LIP        OTHER       TOTAL
1. C,vil   wks
A. Irrigation
I. Now  Sch(,es  40.4   (8.-  20.2   ;4.)                     bO.6 c 12.0)
ii. Traditional Scheses    12.4   i.8l              1.4   i0.2)  13.8    (2.0)
S. Rural Infrastructure     101.0 t25.6)            28.8   (7.0)  l29.8   132.b)
2. Agricultural Credit
A. Vineyard Development                              93.4  20.0)  93.4  120.0)
D. Agroindustries  £5.9   4.0,                      43.9 (11.0)  59.9   (15.0)
4, Vehicles        2.4    2.0O                                   2.4    (2.0)
5. Equipment and Materials for           6.3 £4.4)               6.3   (4.4)
Institutioi. Strengthening
b. Consultants                                        7.4   £1.0)  7.4    (1.0)
7. Training                                           3.3   (1.0)  3.3    (1.0)
X. Salaries and other                                 39.0   £0.0)  39.0    (0.0)
Recurrent Costs
TOTAL             55.7 i14.0)  133.6  i31.4)  b.3  £4.4)  217.1 ( C.2)  415.8   (90.0)
Figures in bra:keti correspond tn Bank financing.
5.06        All equipment, goods, and services to be financed under the Bank
loan would be procured in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines.
International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for
construction contracts of all new irrigation schemes that exceed US$1.5
million (estimated to total US$40.4M). New irrigation schemes with a lower
construction cost (estimated to total US$20.2 M) will be procured under local
competitive bidding (LCB) proce-dures which have been confirmed at negotiations
as satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works and hydromechanical equipment for
new irrigation schemes would be procured together. Vehicles for extension,
research, and project management (US$2.4 M) would also be procured under ICB.
Civil works for the rehabilitation of 220 traditional irrigation schemes built
for small farmers (US$13.8 M), are small, scattered subprojects spread over a
wide geographic area and, therefore, are not suitable for group procurement.
They will be constructed by local contractors selected under LCB, who are
available in sufficient numbers for works, the value of which is above
US$120,000 or, with the prior approval of the Bank, on the basis of force
account for other works. Land clearing and terracing to support the vineyard
development program (US$93.4 M) will be carried out by farmers, in accordance
with established conmnercial practices acceptable to the Bank.



- 27 -
5.07        Of the equipment for agroindustries(US$59.8 M), those exceeding
US$2 million per individual con'.ract and estimated to total about US$15.9
million will be procured under ICB. The balance (US$43.9 M) would be procured
on the basis of established commercial practices, with the assistance of
intermediary banks or CCAMs. There are a large number of dealers representing
the international suppliers, competition is keen and prices are competitive.
Construction of rural infrastructure (US$129.8 M) consisting of (i) feeder and
municipal roads and village streets (US$90.6 M); (ii) water supply and
sewerage systems (US$30.8 M); and (iii) rural electrification (US$8.4 M), will
be contracted on the aasis of LCB procedures. It is expected that about half
of the rural roads (US$28.8 M) will be constructed by force account.
5.08        Engineering studies (US$3.0 M) will be carried ou' by engineering
consulting firms. These studies as well as research and other studies (US$4.4
M), will be contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants. Provision for training (US$3.3 M) which is part of institution
strengthening, includes US$1.0 M for overseas training. Contracts for
computers (US$0.9 M), office, training, and research equipment and materials
for offices and training centers (US$6.3 M) will be awarded to reliable
suppliers after quotations have been obtained from at least three such
suppliers. The Bank will carry out prior review for irrigation contracts over
US$2 M and for equipment over US$500,000.
D. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
5.09        The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of US$90 million equivalent
would be allocated and disbursed as follows:
X of Expenditures
Category                           US$ Eqiivalent          to be financed
1. Small and large irrigation        14,000,000                 20%
schemes
2.  Agricultural credit              35,000,000         90% of amounts disbursed
under sub-loans
3.  Rural infrastructure             30,000,000                  25%
4.  Equipment, materials,              6,000,000                 80%
and vehicles for research,
extension, and institu-
tion building
5.  Consultants services,              2,000,000                 80%
training, and studies
6.  Unallocated                        3,000,000
TOTAL       90,000,000



- 28 -
5.10        The Bank loan would be eisbursed over a seven-year period which
coincides with the EEC Plan for the Rehabilitation of Portuguese Agriculture
(PEDAP). An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and is
detailed in Annex 1, Table 9.  While based on  roject-specific assnmptions,
the schedule is in line with the disbursement profile on Bank loacis tc
Portugal and Bank-wide disbursement experience in area development projects.
BANK FISCA' YEAR
Disbursements          90     91      92     93      94      95      96      97
-------------------US$ alillion-----------------------
Annual                11.4   12.5   12.8   13.0   14.0   14.0    7.3    5.0
Cumulative            11.4   23.9   36.7   49.7   63.7   77.7   85.0   90.0
The closing date of the project would be June 30, 1997.
5.11        A US$5 million special account would be opened by the Borrower to
facilitate loan disbursements. Civil works expenditures under force accounts
.nd contracts below US$1.0 million would be reimbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditures. The documentation should be retained for audit
and also to be reviewed by the Bank's supervision missions. Contracts for
equipment., materials, vehicles, consultant services and training would be
reimbursed on the basis of full documentation. Since the finarncing Dercentage
for all the categories are less than 100X, all payments from the proceeds of
the loan will be on a reimbursable basis through replenishment of the Special
Accotnt. However, large payments above US$2.0 million equivalent could be
reimbursed directly to the Borrower.
VI. PROJECT 1MPLEMENTATION
A. Implement ing Agencies
6.01         The project would be implemented essentially by the agencies
currently responsible for the on-going TOM project (see Project Implementation
chart). However, efforts will be made to strengthen the arrangements for
planning, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the project execution.
Responsibility for overall planning and coordination of the project would rest
with CCRN whose Presilent would also remain the Project Coordinator (PC). The
Prolect Administration Unit (PAU) currently responsible for the on-going
project would be expanded within the CCRN and would continue to assist the PC
in carrying out the project and would have full authority to supervise day to
day activities of the project (para 6.02). As at present, the project would
be executed principally by: (i) the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DRATM) for the agricultural components (irrigation, vineyards,
rura: roads and agricultural services and DRATM institutional development).
The Director of DRATM would be the Deputy Project Coordinator and would be
assisted in his day-Lo-day activities by a ProjeLt Director of Agricultural
Services; (ii) the CCRN for the coordination of the rural infrastructure
component (municipal roads, water supply, sewerage) and for project monitoring
(para 6.26) and strengthening of CCAMs, GAEs and GATs. (iii) IFADAP, The
Federation of Agricultural Saving Cooperatives (FENACAM) and the agricultural
saving cooperatives (CCAMs), participating financial institutions (PBI) for
the agricultural credit component. FENACA,M would also be responsible for
CCAMs' institution building; (iv) the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto



- 29 -
Douro or other institutions would be responsible to CCRN, DRATM and DAA for
project evaluation (6.27), and (v) the CCRN with the municipalities for
construction of municipal infrastructure. Design of infrastructure works
would be prepared either by the Offices for Technical Support (GATs) or by
consultants.
B. Project Administration and Planning
6.02         Project Administration Unit (PAU).  The PAU within CCRN, which
would have its own Administrator and budget, would be a small unit, consisting
of the Administrator, also responsible for the supervision of the execution of
the project's non-agricultural components, and a Director responsible for the
supervision of the project's agricultural components. The Administrator would
be assisted by 5 technicians, an agricultural economist, an economist/regional
planner, an engineer, an agroindustrial specialist, an environmental
specialist. Staff with these skills are currently available within CCRN and
wculd be transferred to constitute the new units. The PAL would: (i) review
and approve annual work programs of the various agencies; (ii) establish
yearly project implementation programs, including time schedules, costing and
manpower requirements; (iii) review the project components to ensure that they
comply with pollution control guidelines; (iv) maintain accounts for all
project activities; and (v) prepare semi-annual progress reports based on
information collected from the implementing agencies.
6.03         The PC would coord'nate with the Director of DRATM who would be
responsible for the execution of the project's agricultural components. The
Administrator of the PAU would monitor the execution o' the nonagricultural
components such as roads, water supply and sanitation, studies and institution
strengthening. He would also be responsible for ensuring that accounting aod
audit of project activities are properly carried out and for project progress
reporting. He would liaise with the institutions in charge of project
evaluation to assure timely preparation of the relevant reports.
6.04         National Coordination Council (NCC).  The Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture and of Planning and Territorial Administration would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of overall project performance and
for solving major project issues. To ensure support at the national level,
therefore, a National Coordination Council will be established with
representation for all the authorities. The PC would convene the NCC and
chair its meetings at least once every 12 months.
6.05         Agrarian Regional Council (ARC).  The existing Agrarian Regional
Council (ARC) would ensure local institutional support with regard to the
project's agricultural components. It would be chaired by the Director of
DRATM and include local representatives of the agencies involved in project
implemer-ation (IFADAP, FENACAM, Cooperatives, farmers' associations, and
universities in the project area). The ARC would meet at least 3 times a year
to (i) review the status of project implementation; (ii) provide advice on
financial, administrative and technical problems; and (iii) assist in planning
and monitoring activities.
C. Project Support Services, Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure
Agricultural Research
6.06         The research component would be implemented by DRATM, IDARN and
various research and training institutions, as explained below:



- 30 -
(a) DRATM with scientific and technical support of IDARN would carry out
research activities for applied research under the project, taking
into account feedback from extension staff (para 4.02-4.03); prepare a
list of research priorities (with the assistance of consultants as
necessary) by December 31, 1989; review research offecs from various
national and international research institutions; contract and monitor
research activities. Studies. The studies funded under the project
would be carried out by consultants jointly selected and appointed by
IDARN, CCRN and DRATM. These institutions would agree on respective
responsibilities for the supervision of the studies. DRATM with the
support of IDARN or DCHEA as appropriate will submit to the Bank, by
December 31, 1989 a list of research priorities and a specific list of
research tasks and studies to be undertaken and of the institutions
which will undertake them. CCRN would submit to the Bank a list of
research priorities on natural resources and on the preservation of
the environment.
(b) Research activities within DRATM would be conducted at the 6
experimental stations operated by the Directorate for Livestock and
Crop Development (DEPAP) whicth would be linked to extension services
through the subject matter specialists.  The project would provide
funds for fixed term contracts of research specialists, vehicles and
inputs and operating costs.
(c) IDARN would be responsible tor preparit,g dninual progress reports for
the project.
The Bank and ROP would annually review the performance of the research
activities. Assurances that the research component would be implemented as
indicated above were obtained at negotiations.
Externsiorl
6.07    The extension component (para 4.04) would be implemented by DRATM
partly in collaboration with two cooperative unions.  DRATM would establish a
direct line of communication between the extension services at the regional
level and the local extension staff, bypassing the Agrarian Zones' Chiefs.
This would help remove the institutional constraints that at present limit the
effectiveness of extension services in the region (para 3.16). DRATM's
extension activities (para 4.04) would be facilitated by the collaboration of
CCAMs which are expected to assume responsibility for the administrative tasks
presently carried out by DRATM's 56 extension agents who henceforth would be
free to carry out only extension activities. The freeing of the extension
agents from carrying out administrative tasks would be a condition of
effectiveness. To encourage collective cultivation agreements, assistance
would be given under the project to farmers with less than 2 ha only if they
agreed to participate in producers' and marketing groups or cooperatives.
Simultaneously, the region, using EEC financing, would encourage -he sale of
small plots by old farmers to young farmers by assuring pension benefits for
the former. The estimated ratio of extension agents to farmers would be 1:500
in the irrigated areas in 1:1,000 in the rainfed areas.
6.08    Extension responsibilities would be organized as follows.  At the
regional level: the Extension Planning Unit (EPU) within DRATM's Planning
Department would closely collaborate with the Directorate of Extension
Services (DSE) to:  (i) formulate a regional extension program incorporating
EEC and ROP directives and monitor its implementation; (ii) outline strategies



- 31 -
for research in the major sectors ind assist in selection of research
institutions based on requirements identified by extension staff; (iii) assure
that the DSE's vocational training divisions prepare and carry out training
and retraining of extension staff and prepare not later than September 30,
1989 the first year treining program; (iv) assess training requirements and
coordinate training prcgrams at the regional level; (v) assure that the field
agronomists and subject matter specialists operating withir DRATM's
experimental stations L-ass on the results of applied research to extension
staff (currently a number of cropping information packages on the production
of potatoes, rye, horticulture, prepared with the assistance of UTAD, are
available and ready to be passed on to the farmers by the extension system);
and (vi) arrange for the Regional Documentation and Information Unit to be
established under the project within DSE to collect and provide to extension
staff the technical and economic information materials to be distributed to
farmers.
6.09    At the Agrarian Zone level:  the Agrarian Zone Extension Coordinators
would: (i) establish a program of action with EPC and DSE; (ii) coordinate
the programs of individual extension staff; (iii) liaise with research
institutions, and other agencies as relevant for technical inputs and general
information; and (iv) select staff and assist in farmer selection tor training
activiLies.
6.10    The two cooperativeeunions (the Seed Potato Union and the dairy
cooperatives' union, Lactinontes) would implement pilot extension schemes with
6 extension staff seconded ty DRATM as a condition of effectiveness. To avoid
the risk of technical isolation, the seconded extension agents would work
closely with DRATM extension staff and receive the same support, training and
informat on.  The Bank and ROP would review annually the performance of the
extension service.  Assurances on the above (paras 6.07-6.10) were obtained at
negotiations.
IrrigatLon
6.11    The rehabilitation of traditional irrigation schemes would be either
carried out, with the prior approval of the Bank, by force account, that is,
directly by DRATM's Soils and Agricultural Engineering Division (SAED) with
some hired labor and with the participation of local farmers or by local
contracting under LCB for works above the equivalent of US$120,000. Most of
the work (70X) related to the new irrigation schemes (construction works,
engineering studies) and supervision of works would be contracted out to
construction and consulting firms. The DRATM has extensive experience in
contracting and supervising satisfactorily construction of a number of such
schemes in TOM. However, to strengthen its implementation capability under
the project, an Irrigation Unit (IU) would be established within DRATM. IU
would be responsible for: (a) administration, contracting and monitoring the
preparation of engineering and feasibility studies; (b) contracting of
construction works and of field supervision; (c) organization and monitoring
of operation and maintenance activities; (d) coordination with other DRATM
divisions involved in project implementation such as administration of water
users administration and the extension service; and (e) assessment of the
economic viability of the new schemes (para 4.17). The IU would also oversee
the formation of new water users' associations. Assurances on the above were
obtained at negotiations. The newly established unit would be attached to
DRATM's Planning Office and would be staffed with a unit chief, two civil
engineers, an agricultural engineer, an agroeconomist and 4 to 6 technical
assistants. The unit would rely on occasional assistance from MAPA's DGHEA



- 32 -
and, in the case of activities related to the maintenance of traditional
schemes, closely collaborate with DRATM's Cooperative Development and Farm
Management Division. The head of the Irrigation Unit has been already
appointed. The appointment of two civil engineers to the unit would be a
condition of effectiveness.
6.12    Water users' associations would be formed under the new schemes before
sub-project approval, in conformity with the Decree Law 269/82 of July 10,
1982. Uncer the law, before approval for construction is granted, 502 of
beneficiaries of irrigable areas must agree to (i) the construction of the new
schemes; (ii) to be responsible for operation and maintenance; and (iii) to
pay back a certain percentage (minimum of 15X) of the investment costs.
Assurances on above were obtained at negotiations.
Dam Control
6.13    Portugal has an established reputation in dam engineering and is one
of the leading countries in dam safety. Assurances were obtained that the
project would comply with the national dam safety regulations included in
Decree Law No. 48373/68 of May 8, 1968, as amended. This decree, which is
basically consistent with Bank procedures for assuring dam safety, provides
for the establishment of a Dam Safety Authority which would be responsible for
review of dam design, investigation, periodic reviews during construction and
operation. The law sets out in detail the various steps to be taken during
planning, design, construction and operation with respect to dam safety and
stipulates the role of the National Laboratory of CiviL Engineering (LNEC) and
the National Service o' Civil Protection (SNPC) with regard to emergency
preparedness.
Rural Infrastructure
6.L4    Feeder Roads and Rural Electrification.  Engineering, appraisal and
supervision for all tiral infrastructure sub-components would be carried out
as under the ongoing TOM project, by the responsible rovernment agencies which
have been found to be qualified for the purpose. Thus, the sub-conponent for
feeder roads would be implemented by DRATM with technical support provided by
GATs, which would be responsible for road design, for the construction works
(to be carried out directly or through contractors) and for the necessary
maintenance. The executing agency for subproject design and construction of
the rural electrification component would be the National Electricity Power
Authority (EDP), under the coordination of DRATM.
6.15    Municipal Roads, Village Streets, Water Supply and Sewage Systems.
This component would be implemented by the municipalities under the
coordination of CCRN.  Thp municipalities would be responsible for land
acquisition, construction works (to be executed directly or through
contractors) and for operation and maintenance. Under the ongoing TOM project
municipalities have proven to be efficient in this regard and carried out the
programs on schedule. CCRN would be responsible for the allocation of Project
funds among the various municipalities.  The GATs would provide the
municipalities with the necessary assistance for infrastructure design,
preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works.
6.16    Institutional Strengthening.  Project funds for the strengthening of
the cooperative system (para 4.06) would be managed by CCRN. Funds for the
strengthening DRATM research, extension and cooperative services would be
managed by DRATM.  The training courses for CCAM's staff would be organized by
FENACAM.



- 33 -
D. rhe Credit CoGnent
6.17    On-Farm and Agroindustrial Credit.  Under the project, an estimated
Esc. 15.0 billion (US$93.7 million) would be invested by farmers principally
in vineyard rehabilitation, and to a limited extent, in other on-farm
activities such as farm-forestry c id wild life development. In addition,
&bout Esc. 9.6 billion (USS 59.8 million) would be invested by agroindustrial
companies and cooperatives for processing and storage facilities, machinery
and equipment for wine, oil, meat, fruits and vegetables. Tihe long-term
resources of the banking system are not sufficient to provide the basis for a
credit program on the scale required. Therefore there is a need to provide
external financing under the project for meeting this demand for on-farm
investmen and expansion of agroindustries. Sub-loans for financing the
investments will be provided by Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (CCAMs) and
Participating Commercial Banks (PBIs), both of which have a dense network of
branches and offices in the project area, and refinanced by IFADAP. Subloans
for vineyards would be extendea for a 15-year period including a 6-year grace
period. Subloans for agroindustries would be extended for 9 years including a
4-year grace period.
6.18    The Government would provide to IFADAP (para 5.Ji), under an agency
agreement, the proceeds of the Bank loan for this component.  Conclusion of
such agreement between Government and IFADAP for this purpose would be a
condition of effectiveness. IFADAP would on-lend funds to the PBIs/CCAMs on
the basis of subsidiary loan agreements which would stipulate on-lending terms
and conditions, lending criteria, and their respective responsibilities in
loan processing, approval and supervision. Credit ceilings under which
PBIs/CCAMs operate would be raised by the goveriment by amounts equal to their
uptake of Bank loan proceeds. An assurance was obtained at negotiations to
this effect and to require that the subsidiary loan agreemits, and any
subsequent amendments to them, would be satisfartory to the Bank.  The signilng
of at least two such agreements would be a condition of effectiveness.
Lending Rate and tne_Spreads
6.19    The Government would pass on the credit part of the loan proceeds
(US$35 million) to IFADAP under an agency agreement. .FADAP would lend such
amount to the CCAMs and PBIs under a lending agreement and would receive from
them a fee of 1Z per annum on the outstanding principal amount of the
subloan. CCAMs and PBIs will onlend the Bank proceeds at an interest rate
which wouid be 22 below the medium term market rate which would be determined,
from time to time, by adding a spread of 3.52 to the prevailing central bank
rediscount rate (presently 13.5Z). These institutions would earn a spread of
1.52 on the outstanding principal amount of the subloans. The onlending rate
shall always be positive in real terms.  The proposed rate is expected to
serve as an incentive for potential investors to start new commercial crop
production and to set up agroindustries in this less developed region which is
presently handicapped by the absence of a strong supporting infrastructure of
facilities and services. Since the current market rate would be 17%, the
onlending rate to sub-borrowers would initially be set at 152, which would be
highly positive in real terms, given the current annual inflation rate of 91
in Portugal. Further, considering the possibility of changes it, the situation
in the country in respect of inflation, interest rates and other related
factors, it is also proposed that the provisions relating to the fee for
IFADAP, the spread for the intermediaries and the onlending rate be reviewed
by the Government and the Bank not later than June 30 each year tc -nsure that



-34-
onlending rates remain positive in real terms.  Ass,rances in regard to the
onlending arrangements as set out above were obtained at negotiations.
Sub-loan Foreign Exchange Risk
6.20    The foreign exchange risk on all sub-loans would be borne by ROP.  The
fee to be received by the Borrower for this purpose would be variable,
reflecting movements in domestic and international rates which are in turn
affected by domestic and international inflation. The onlending rate to the
ultimate borrower as set out in para 6.19 would, under this arrangement, at
present be 15X, the fee to the Borrower for covering The foreign exchange risk
would be 4.8X.  This arrangement is in line with L-nk policy and is considered
adequate.
6.21    Sub-Borrowers' Contribution.  Sub-borrowers will be required to
contribute at least 15Z to the investment cost. Repayment periods would be
based on the cash flow analysis of individual investments, but would normally
not exceed a maximum of nine years, including a four-year grace period and a
maximum of 15 years including a six year grace period for vineyards.
6.22    Appraisal Methodology.  With the assistance of the DRATM extension
service, the CCAMs and the Offices for Entrepreneurial Support (GAEs),
prospective sub-borrowers would prepare their loan applications and direct
them to their local PBI or CCAMs. Staff of the relevant PBI or CCAM and of
IFADAP would review the loan application and verify the applicant's general
creditworthiness for the sub-loan. All sub-loan applications for
agroindustries and those for vineyards over 15 ha would be supported by
detailed feasibility studies. Decisions regarding refinancing of the
sub-loans would rest with the IFADAP. Proceeds of the loan repaid by
sub-borrowers to IFADAP and available for further lending would be used to
finance agricultural and agroindustrial development in the project area on the
same ttrms and conditions as those governing sub-loans under the project.  The
appraisal of the sub-loans would take into account the following aspects of
the investments:
(a) the technical feasibility, financial viability, commercial soundness
and economic justification. Particular emphasis would be placed on
assessing the export possibilities for the incremental production;
(b) an evaluation of the sub-borrower's creditworthiness, organization,
management and financial structure, and of the technical staff and
availability of the relevant know-how;
(c) the economic and financial rates of return for any proposed
sub-project should not be less than 13Z, the calculations should be
based on detailed and realistic cost-benefit analysis, and the cash
flow generated shculd be sufficient to cover debt service, and
(d) assessment of the environmental impact of subprojects, ensuring
compliance with ROP and EEC regulations.
6.23    The following sub-loan applications will be submitted to the Bank for
prior review: (i) all sub-loan applications for amounts of US$2 million and
above; and (ii) applications for the first three sub-loans for amounts of
US$50,000 and above. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
financial intermediaries would adhere to the evaluation criteria set out in
para 6.22 and that sub-loan requests would be sent to the Bank for prior
review and approval as indicated



- 35 -
E. Accounts and Audits
6.24    IFADAP, the PBIs and CCAMs would establish and maintain separate
accounts for project operations, by type of sub-loan, and in accordance with
sound accounting principles. In addition, the regional office of IFAPAP in
Vila Real would establish central filing systems containing complete records
of all sub-loans and other project expenditures by sub-borrowers arranged
respectively by sub-region and principal activity.
6.25    Each Ministry has an Inspection Unit which is responsible for "audit
and control" of expenditures by the Ministry's agencies, based on quarterly
reports. In addition, consolidated annual reports are sent to the Tribunal de
Contas, the highest Government financial control agency, which routinely
audits these accounts. IFADAP's operations are audited, under its charter, by
the board of auditors of the Bank of Portugal. Under the agreement for the
Tras-os-Montes Project, IFADAP's project and special accounts are audited
annually by an independent firm of auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations for a similar arrangement for the
present project. The an;.ual accounts of the concelhos must be approved every
year by March 31 by the Tribunal de Contas, while the Inspecao Geral de
Finances in the Ministry of Finance must make an audit of these accounts at
least every three years. Audited statements of all project accounts, covering
both expenditures and sources of funds, and audited statements of expenditures
in the case of credit would be regularly prepared and shown for review to
supervision missions. Audited IFADAP accounts would be furnished to the Bank
within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained to this effect.
F. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
6.26    Project nmonitoring and reporting would be conducted by the
implementing agencies of the project under the supervision of a project
monitoring service established within. Coordination of these activities would
be effected by the Deputy Project Coordinator for non-agricultural
components. Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the PAU on the
basis of information received from project monitoring and forwarded to the
Bank within two months after the end of each period. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that monitoring arrangements would be maintained as
above until project completion.
6.27    Project evaluation would continue to be carried out under the
direction of the Project Coordinator by the Project Evaluation Unit of UTAD or
other university or institution in accordance with terms of reference jointly
prepared by CCRN, DRATM, DAA. Its staff would include a research coordinator
and three research staff, as well as six special evaluation assistants and
appropriate secretarial assistance. IE'ADAP would prepare a completion report
on the credit component not later than six months after project completion and
would submit it to the PEU who would prepare the full project completion
report and submit it to the Bank within six months of last project
disbursement. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the ROP that a
Project Evaluation Unit, adequately staffed, would be established at UTAD or
other university or institution and a contract would be signed with it by
December 31, 1989 to carry out evaluation under the project, and that
monitoring studies, evaluation and completion reports would be submitted to
the Bank as described above.



- 36 -
G. Environmental Impact
6.28    The Republic of Portugal attaches great importance to the quality of
the environment and is effectively enforcing its laws and EEC regulations in
this area. The appraisal mission has reviewed the relevant legislation and
regulations and found them to be satisfactory and adequate. They are being
suitably enforced with special attention to those environmental aspects that
may be of particular relevance under the project as follows: (i) in the case
of the construction of dams (para 6.13), control of floods downstream;
preservatior. of historical or archaeological sites and old houses; impact on
wild life and preservation of birds; (ii) erosion control by road construction
programs and terracing for vineyards planting and cultivation; (iii) treatment
of solid and liquid wastes in the case of agroindustrial financing; and
(iv) construction of drainage to prevent salinity in irrigated areas. With
regard to the credit component, assurances were obtained that intermediary
financial institutions will: (i) extend credit only for projects which are
found to be designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) ensure that their
staff are trained in the assessment and the application of the above
standards. In addition, assurances were obtained that each project component
would be undertaken in accordance with Portugal's safety, health and
environmental regulations.
VII. PRODUCTION AND SOCIAL BENEFITS AND JUSTIFiCATION
A. Project Economic and Poverty Impact
7.01       The project is expected to have a significant impact on primary
agricultural production as well as the output of agroindustries in the project
area. The agricultural component would benefit small and medium farmers
through increased and improved agricultural production based in part oa new
cultivation practices and the impetus derived from the complementary
investment in agroindustry. The project would have a direc; positive impact
on rural incomes as the beneficiaries would be about 8,000 small farmers
presently with relatively low incomes. Per capita incomes would increase in
real terms from US$400 to US$500 in the mountain areas, and from US$500 to
US$670 in the Douro Valley, while in the other two project areas, incomes
would climb to over US$1400.
7.02       Non-agricultural benefits are expected to be derived from such
areas as agroprocessing where about 70 operators would employ 3,500 additional
persons and indirectly from increasing agrotourism and from planned investment
in farm-forest schemes to preserve the wild life and ecological balance in the
region. The project's positive impact on the country's balance of payments
will initially be in terms of efficient import substitution and be gradually
reflected in ir.reased exports as the marketing and agroprocessing components
make progress and Portuguese products make headway in tta European markets.
7.03       The project would also have an important impact on poverty by
improving incomes and the living conditions of an estimated population of
about 70,000 persons in villages mainly employed in small farm production and
related activities. It is also expected to enhance the women's role and



- 37 -
income in agriculture and related services and in agroindustry. At present
the female work force in the sector is above 50% of the total and mostly
undertaking manual work. Improvement in rural infrastructure such as rural
roads and village streets would facilitate access to schools and to health
facilities, and lessen the general cultural isolation of village communities.
Recorded consumption of water per head in the region is said to be less than
one third the national average, while enteric and diarrheal condition. lead to
death rates considerably above the national average. The village water supply
and sewerage schemes proposed would, therefore, make an important contribution
to improved health and living standards and reduce sanitation-related
illnesses. Rural electricity would help reduce pollution by decreasing the
use of diesel engines for water pumps and would also reduce operating costs.
The rural infrastructural component is likely to have an overall positive
impact by helping to erase the image of this region as one which is depressed
and isolated.
B. Cropping Yields and Agricultural and Agroindustrial Production
7.04       Cropping Pattern.  A major change in the cropping pattern in the
region under the project would be the reduction of cereals planted in marginal
areas and of potatoes. In place of the traditional fallow, various forage
crops, and temporary or permanent pastures for livestock production would be
introduced. In the irrigated areas, a two-year potatoes/cereal rotation would
give way to a four-year rotation including potatoes, cereals and two years of
temporary ryegrass/clover. In the Terra Quente zone, changes in cropping
pattern would be towards vegetable production on small farms combined with
irrigated fruit and olive trees on larger farms. In the mountain areas and in
the natural and national parks, the project would finance integrated farming
forestry units by emphasizing aquaculture, apiculture, production of soft
fruits and fungi and promotion of agrotourism. The proposed changes in
croppinig pattern are based on extensive experience under similar conditions in
other countries of the Mediterranean basin, as well as some experience
elsewhere in Portugal. In the Douro zone, the rehabilitation of vineyards
would take place in the context of a very long tradition of grape production,
although the proposed development features a higher degree of mechanization
than the average currently prevailing, in order to deal with the difficulty of
obtaining farm labor, due to migration of workers from the region.
7.05        Yields.  Without project yields were assumed to remain unchanged,
although it is predicted that over a ten-year period there will be a steady
decline in yields from old vineyards and from potato fields. There has be;en
an increase in rejection of samples of potatoes for seed and human consumption
as a result of nematode infestation, and unless the rotation is changed, this
trend will accelerate. There is also evidence of the aging of vines in the
Dcuro zone, with a high proportion greater than 25 years old, since farmers
have not been replacing vines than periodically at the required rate. On
farms benefitting from the project, these trends would be reversed for both
potatoes and grapes. Yields for both are adapted from judgements of field
personnel who have studied performance on these crops over a long period of
time, and from such research results as are available. For table wine grapes,
assumed yields are estimated to increase by about 40% over yields currently
obtained. Yie'.ds are also projected to increase substantially for the
specialised "Douro" wheat, rye, and potatoes. The yield assumptions, which
would be attained over a period of four years for most crops, are
conservative, and are shown in Annex 2, Table 3. They reflect statistical
evidence made available by the UTAD "roject Evaluation Unit based on surveys
made on traditional irrigation schemes finanred under the TOM project.



- 38 -
7.06        Production.  Estimated incremental ^roduction under the project is
shown in Annex 2, Table 2. Cultivation of grapes for port wine production
would rise by about 21,500 tons, yielding an additional 15.5 million liters of
port wine (an increase of about 20% over Douro production in most recent
years). It is expected that the total incremental annual production of Douro
wheat, rye, and commercial potatoes would increase, with yield increases
offsetting the decrease in area planted. The production of seed potatoes
would increase at a higher rate due to an increased seed selection percentage
with the project. Larger livestock production due to improved pastures would
result in increased offtakes of live animals (sheep and cattle), milk, and
wool. Incremental production of fruits and vegetables from the warmer Terra
Quente zone is also envisaged.
7.07       Agroindustry.  Considerable value added would be derived under the
project through the investment in agroindustries and marketing services. The
project would generate about 1,000 new jobs in agroindustries. Furthermore,
it would result in a reduction in unit costs of production and operating costs
through the use of labor saving practices, and technological upgrading. Thus,
benefits would result from (i) improved quality of produce derived from
financing of equipment for grading and packing and storing for fruits and
vegetables; (ii) modernization of olive oil processing equipment, substituting
present hydraulic presses with new automatic equipment; (iii) increased and
improved wine bottling; and (iv) increases both in value and in total sales of
the above commodities as a result of improved quality and presentation.
Specifically, in the case of olive oil production, which is 40Z of total
agroprocessing production in TOM, the impact of the uroject would be to
improve quality control and produce premium quality oil presently priced in
the EEC at 5% to 102 over the intervention prices and hence it would increase
export sales. Likewise, by upgrading the technology of wine processing,
including new presses, self emptying steel tanks, and bottling lines, wine
producer cooperatives would start direct marketing of their own wine in
bottles throug. agents and wholesalers.  Wine making and dging practices would
also be improved.
C. Marketng of Proeet Output
7.08        Crops and Livestock.   Incremental production of rye, wheat, and
commercial potato will be sold in the local market. Larger additional
quantities of seed potatoes would be forthcoming from the project but the
project output would represent only a fraction of the potential demand and
would substitute for imports. The additional live animals (both cattle and
sheep) would be sold to private dealers at local markets.
7.09        Small amounts of incremental fruit and vegetable production, mainly
from the medium-scale irrigated areas in the Terra Quente zone, will be
absorbed in the growing Porto and Lisbon markets. Larger amounts will be
marketed outside of the project area, and new crops would be mainly produced
in response to specific market demands from other EEC countries. The National
Institute for Agricultural Marketing (IAPA) is preparing a national program
for the development of collection, packing and processing and marketing of
agriculture products or groups of products. Special attention is being given
to the Northern region, because of its backwardness . Initial enquiries have
been received from Italian market agents for supply of off-season vegetables
such as onion, courgette and cabbage, all of which transport relatively easily
without bruising. Improved road links north east into Spain should also
improve opportunities for these products. The project provides funds for a
marketing study specifical.v to examine outlets and comparative advantage of



- 39 -
crops (in terms of timing of production, quality etc.). This study will be
coordinated with IAPA and completed before increased production of fruits and
vegetables expands beyond the capacity of the local markets.
7.10       Additional grapes for port wine production would be sold either
through cooperatives to the Casa do liouro (which accounts for about 40% of
wine production in the region) or directly to one of the many well established
international port wine houses represented in the area. Most of the wine is
transported by road to Porto and exported, mainly to the UK, Germany, and
France. Additional production estimated to be forthcoming from the project is
well within the expansion of export potential foreseen by the Port Wine
Institute, based on market surveys undertaken by the major producers and
distributors (largely British and Portuguese) with established commercial ties
and extensive experience in these markets.
7.11       Agr^-industries.  With regard to the marketing of incremental
agroprocessed goods, there is already a secured market for the higher quality
output deriving from investment in wine and olive oil production, mainly in
Britain for wine and in the northern European countries for olive oii.. The
rising trend in demand for healthier food produced in non-polluted areas and
for dried fruits and medicinal herbs further opens up prospects for marketing
of additional agroindustrial output from the project area. To strengthen
marketing prospects, measures would be taken under the project to (i) improve
production quality, quality control and packaging; (ii) encourage direct
contacts between Portuguese producers and foreign buyers/end-users; and
(iii) introduce more aggressive marketing efforts and better market
information.
D. Financial and Economic Viability
7.12       The profitability of the investmenIts in agriculture and
agroindustry has been exami.aed UsiTng farm models, which deal, respectively,
with the rehabilitation of one hectare farms of vineyards, the r habilitation
of traditional irrigation schemes in two agroecological zones and of one and
three hectares farms associated with the establishment of new irrigation
schemes in two agroecological zones. The agricultural assumptions underlying
these models are discussed in Chapter III above (paras 3.08-3.21), and the
cash flows projected in farm budgets are presented in Annex 2, Tables 5-17.
Without the project, incomes are likely to decline on farms growing seed
potatoes, and on vineyards where the yields of aging vines would diminish over
time. Financial rates of return on the proposed on-farm investments and
changes in technology are estimated to range from 10% to 17% (Annex 2,
Table 4).
7.13       Two models of typical investments in equipment for agroindustries
have also been analyzed. The first is an olive oil model which involves
installation of an automatic processing line and stainless steel tanks
resulting in labor savings, faster processing time and an improvement in oil
quality. The financial rate of return of this model is estimated at 16%. The
second model involves investment for wine processing in a new press, steel
tanks, bottling line and storage, which would result in the production and
sale of higher quality wine in bottle rather than bulk and in the aging of
wine for increased value. The financial rat? of return of this model is
estimated at 25%.



- 40 -
7.14       Economic Rates of Return.  The economic rates of return on the six
farm models are shown in Annex 2, Table 4. The following are the major
assumptions underlying the analysis, on which the models are based:
(a) assumptions on the agricultural aspects of the model are given in the
project file and are summarized in Annex 2, Tables 5-12. Yield increases are
phased over 4 years for small farms and 5 years for large farms; the rate of
adoption of the project package is also phased over 5 years and reaches a
maximum of only 50% of total faims; (b) agricultural labor is priced at Esc.
1300 per day, equal to the current daily wage for male laborers in the region
and adjusted for the economic analysis by a shadow wage rate of 75% on the
assumption of a structural unemployment rate of 15% in the project area and on
the immobility of part of the labor force, especially the middle aged and
about 40% of the youth who are estimated to be illiterate and therefore have
difficulty in finding employment elsewhere; (c) economic and financial prices
used in the analysis, shown in Annex 2, Table I are at the Larmgate; current
domestic market prices are used in the financial analysis, however, world
prices have been used in the economic analysis for traded commodities; (d) the
project life is 30 years; (e) only increases in agricultural production
directly attributable to the investment from which the benefits accrue are
taken into account; and (f) in calculating farmers' cash flows it is assumed
that full cost recovery is achieved for operation and maintenance and that 15%
of capital costs is recovered over 20 years (para. 7.16).
7.15       Rates of return to the farmer arc found to be rather high.  The
financial rates of return for the overall irrigation schemes range from 10% to
17%; the economic rates of return range from 12% to 20% (Annex 2, Table 4).
These rates of return are considered to be realistic for the following
reasons: first, farmers adopting the new technologies are assumed to be at
most only 50% of the total farmers, and second the full investment arid O&M
costs of the irrigation schemes are accounted for in the overall rates of
return.  The ERRs for the two agroindustry mnooels are 20% and 33%,
respectively.
E. Cost Recovery
7.16       For the rehabilitated traditional irrigation schemes, farmer-s would
themselves operate the schemes and carry out maintenance.  io continue with
the principle successfully applied under the on-going Balk financed TOM
project, beneficiary farmers would be required to pay for unskilled labor
hired during construction or provide their own labor, which is estimated to be
20% of total investment costs. With regard to the medium and large public
irrigation schemes, in accordance with current regulations, an annual tax
inter.ded to recover 15% of investment cost plus a consumption water charge
representing the entire cost of operation and maintenance would be applied
under the project. An evaluation of cash flows of farmers participating under
the schemes shows that it would be difficult to require a higher farmer
contribution to capital cost in view of the limited residual income left to
the farmers for meeting their living expenses. At negotiations, ROP gave
assurances that current cost recovery regulations will be applied in the new
irrigation schemes.
7.17       For water supply and sewerage schemes and rural municipal roads,
the Bank has reviewed the relevant legislation and it is satisfied that while
recognizing the autonomy of the municipalities it makes adequate provisions
for the recovery of operation and maintenance cost. The Bank has also
reviewed and found acceptable the legislation fixing electricity charges and
it is satisfied that adequate provision is made to recover operation and
maintenance costs.



- 41 -
F. Projet Risks
7.18        The principal risk facing the project is the possibility that the
executing agency, CCRN, does not strengthen its organization sufficiently to
be able to supervise timely project implementation satisfactorily. Based on
the experience under the TOM project, there is reason to place confidence in
CCRN's commitment and capability. Further, the CCRN is well aware of this
risk and is already addressing it by planning to strengthen the proposed PAU
(para 6.02) which will manage project implementation. Second, delay in
project implementation could reduce project economic benefits. This risk has
been reduced by efficient planning and improved ROP commitment to the project
in view of its importance in helping the region restructure agriculture before
1996. Third, improvement may be slow in research and extension services and
in the coordination of EEC/Bank financial programs to accelerate regional
development. This risk is being reduced by the full commitment and
involvement of the Portuguese authorities to assure progress in these areas,
based on technical and financial support from EEC and the Bank.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01         During negotiations ROP gave assurances that it would:
(i)     establish and operate the agreed project organization structure
(paras 6.01-6.16), ensuring staffing of all agencies involved in
project implementation including strengthening of the agricultural
credit system (CCAMs) (para 4.08).
(ii)      take the following actions:  (a) recruitment of new exter.sionists
and district extension coordinators in numbers and on a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.04(a)); (b) preparation of a
detailed first year training program for extensionists by
September 30, 1989 (para 4.04(c)); (c) establishment at DRATM of a
regional documentation unit; (d) signing of a contract by
December 31, 1989 with a university or a technical institution to
undertake project evaluation (para 6.27); and (e) completion of a
study for the rehauling and strengthening of the cooperative
credit system by December 31, 1990 (para 4.08).
(iii)      cause DRATM, with the support of either IDARN or DGHEA as
appropriate or CCRN, prepare by December 31, 1989 a list of
research priorities with specific lists of initial studies to be
undertaken and an indication of the institutions designed to carry
them out and the timetable for implementation. Review annually
with the Bank the performance of the research activities (para
6.06).
(iv)     deploy extension staff aLcording to the arrangements set out
(paras 6.07-6.10). Review annually with the Bank the performance
of the extension service.
(v)     arrange for the DRATM to carry out as agreed with the Bank (para
6.11) the project irrigation component and in particular;
(a) ensure the formation of new water users associations (para
6.12); (b) comply with the dam safety regulations acceptable to



- 42 -
the Bank regarding engineering and construction standards (para
6.13); (c) adopt eligibility criteria for new irrigation schemes
as specified in para 4.16; and (d) establish and staff at DRATM an
irrigation unit and construct and equip 3 training centers and
DRATM offices.
(vi)     adopt lending terms and spreads as agreed with the Bank for
project subloans and review them yearly to assure that the
onlending rate remains positive in real terms (para 6.19).
(vii)     open a US$5 million special account at the Treasury to accelerate
loan disbursements (para 5.11).
(viii)     establish eligibility criteria for sub-lending under the credit
component (paras 6.22-6.23).
(ix)     ensure that the cost recovery arrangements for the irrigation and
water sunply and sewerage components are determined in accordance
with existing legislation and that the cash flow of beneficiaries
is taken into consideration (para 7.16); and
(ix)     ensure that each project component would be undertaken in
accordance with Portugal's safety, health and environmental
standards which are acceptable to the Bank (para 6.28).
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.02         The following wouid be the conditions of effectiveness of the loan
agreement:
(i)    that a protocolo has been issued providing that 56 extensionists
have been relieved of their administrative duties to carry out
only extension services and six DRiTM extensionists have been
seconded to two cooperatives (paras 6.07 and 6.10);
(ii)    that two civil engineers have been appointed for the supervisory
irrigation unit of DRATM (para 6.11); and
(iii)    that an agency agreement has been executed between ROP and IFADAP
and at least two subsidiary loan agreements between IFADAP and one
of the PBIs and CCAMs, respectively, have been 6igned (para 6.18).
8.03         On the basis of the above-mentioned agreements and the staff
appraisal, the project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$90 million
to ROP for 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standai-
variable interest rate.
01 9 Ss



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
C@l_Y"r  1        1"0         ~~~~ ~      ~~~1991  1N2  103        1104         1"           INS
1S  _  2  3  412 3  4 1 2        41    234 2 -   3       4  1   1 2 1 3-4     2 2   4 1 4 2
30          30           30          230          30     0                 30
Mm kfdA Sdl                          _2 _          13           12  _         2_3        12           13            3 _
(Nd fSd_'_Z__  Z-_m l                                                                      e II 2s
fFk subJ Rs"nh                     -  2 215    _  215I         2151         21    _     215   _     215          2151 
(Via al0 Fuu  -r.b PrUu                                     I -        _ _ m_ -              _ - m" m                    I 
pft of Fmm &Om OrWRI                      I         10           1            10          10          10            7
6w4^^-usan@   I           1 21 1_ 7T7- _ 2 1 T  _ _  I I_T
AWs Place"w (USSfm                         -                                                 -                        
(Al DRATH EAIAIaMmd SW-
(8) AWMWk" PAU~,Ch          20           20           20          20           as
Wfm Supy                                m -                m         -     m0         I      
10, _        0                        0  1101                1 1
&Wpom nomw                              21 m         3            3 -  m      21
pO  esl~*(on.)                            -      -                                     m m  m 
iW- D - m - d-
Chmm                                  2~~~~2          3            2 
bidnFnu1  ais 1)-mm                                                      



PORTUGAL
TRAS os MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proljct Organizat.rn Chart
DGDR
CCRN
Ministry ol               Ministry Pl    Nofonel                                                       DRTN
Miistry of              Agricultur                Planning &                                              CorIato               DRTM
Flinance                 Fisheries                 Territorial                                         [111] Coofdintbn         DA
Food                Administration                                              Council             OGT
-T _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DGHEA
Protect                                                Ag-------an
Treasury- - - -- -   --------                     Coordination   --------------
IFADAP                                Project               Project__upici                    Coope~- regioral _cA
Agricultural                                      Administration        Evaluation      
Gredit                                              Unit                  UnitCaaDu,
I                                               
Extensin   Agai ut ur    Agr;cltural        Non-Agriculturalnirite
Components                               Components             [ATs            GAEs
Irrigations        Monitorng &                               Monitoring 
Extension           Acutn
Rural        ~~~Acrcultural        Agricutura          ACcounting
Rucal   AgFicultu(al          HsArncutua       Non-Agricultural
Inlrastructure        Comnponent           ReerhComponents
Studies &                                Studies &
CASA DOURO Asfocation oi Wine Producers               Surveys                                   Surveys
DGPA        Agriculturat Planning
DAA         Planning Evalualton
PDARlN      institute tot ihe Deveiopmenm ot Agrsc,!lufra Reseat,--
IUTAD       University of Trae-os-Montes and Alto Douro
GAT         Tech-iical Suppon Office
GAE         Enterpnse Suppot Office
Cowand-------                                                                                                                                 --
------Associalmon



- 45 -                         ANNEX 1
Table 1.
PORTUGAL
Tras-os-Montes Regional Development Project
Az*& and Population of Project Region
Districts  Agrarian Zone        Concelhes        No. of   Population   Area
Villages    (1979)      Jr,k2)
Alto Tamea         Chaves            128        51,412       600
ValpaqoS          101        29,311      '-39
Barroso            3otuCAS            39         9,359       315
Mentaleqre        110        21,963       782S
Visou       Not included        Moimenta da        41        30,197       219
Ln ORTM             Beira
Resende            67        15,147       I.8
Cinfacs           113        25,389       239
Taronca            29         9,502       103
Penedono           18         4,574      125
Sernacelhe         26         7,790       221
TOTAL                               36          1,894       624,650    12,003
c ...S.                         *-----au        inu.u.     ....... ..  ---u...   * -..uuu .  



-46 -
Table 2
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cultivated and Irrigated Areas
to              Sub-Zons                             Total Coltivate4        Total Irrigated
Total Area          Area  II                 Area
(ha)           (ha)       2           (ha)
'ountoiat Zone   54rroso/Alturas        109.700      1l,900      17.2        10,623      56.2
Terra Fria             183,200       40,100      21.9        4.312      15.7
High Valleys    Alto Tamegl             113,900       29,200     25.6         6,136     21.0
Mat&o/Pndr*la           95,100       19,700      20.7       72921       40.2
Wars Zone       terra Quente            194,800       59,500     30.5         2.467      4.5
Douro Suporior         143,200       41,700      29.1        1,245       3.0
Plateau         Planalto Mirand*s       171,400       74,500     43.5         1,217       1.4
Douro Valley    laixo/Cims Corgo        133,800       20,100     15.0         4.500     32.3
TOtAL                                 1,145,100      303,700     26.5        t2,624      1X.0
/i  This     %  area in annual crops or fallows.



Tren me N9 RStiam2 3m.loemmm Project
P,oj.ct Cwponeetm by Year
MaWs Iseludina Camtl.u.eirs                                                    Totals 1.cl.i1rg CwAmUMm,.a
(ESC. '04)                                                                     (30
3996 909        91M9       923         93/94       94/95       95/96      Total       39/90   90/91   91/92   92/9   93/9   94/9      WN1   Tota
A. M0RICULlW. 'ER1ICES
1. Research                             l09,59     2355965     759707    76.054       79.157      65344       69,136     632,151      722    99       474     472    491      401    427    3.97
2. Extianoar                            212.303    153.269    M33365    218.054      1855.76     195.064     234,315   1.3729649    19356     976   WM27    z.mU   1.42   1.130   It=2    1.67
Sub-Total WBICUI.TURAL. SERVICES            321.592    339234    279.072    2949103     2w65.       260903      273953   2,034.300    k,120   1.90   1,749   1.M3   14D    159W   3.69   12.95
1'. Agricultural Crtedit
1. Virwiard Dewlapsat                 1.441415  1.M94.95  2.250.25   2.679,137   3.146.470   2,65044   29077.679  15.0249796    0.139  129325  14.163  16.6   19.t4   16.24   12,93   93426
2. Atro-itdustries                     1,13695"4   P1.2639M  1.394,740  1.369.964   1,433.465   1,510.376   1.535.97   9,605235    7.632   7.30   31476   3.503   3.343   997   9.555   59.794
Sub.-total Agricultural Credit           2,442.569  3v171.453  3.564,99   4.049.102   4,534.935   3.193.421   3.663.576  24.633,063   15,321  20.204  22,333  25.111  28.135  19.445  22.095  153.223
1. Tradi',aml Schems                    346.275    373.160    M97464    240,551      303,273     412.752     224.294   2.2M2769    2.230   2.409   1.364   1.493   1,364   2.513   1.353   l3v77
21. Neq SE-hemes                         760,549    37it09   1.5601,45  1.230.35   1.520.341   2.99"9.1    19140.54   10.09.601   5NM6  5NS9   9.410  7.99   9.349  13.262  6.3W9   62.95
Sub-lotal irrigatuio                      1,214,824  1,257.055  1.799.20   &.529.3    1.624,114   3.4211943   1.364,339  12.301.370    7.341   0.000  11,274   9.492  11.214  26.77    3.231   76.336
1D. Rural Intrastetruc.r
F,edar Roads                          992.540  1.284.157  1.401.014  1,537,434   1,666,74   1.304.95   1.952.970  109639.775    6.536   0t131   80779   9,542  IQ.24   10.991  11.773   66.05
Pauicipal Roads                       612.621    676.007    736.501    797,904   1.003.051   1.005,437   1 " 561l  6 065.002    49034   4.307   4.615   4,952   69!66   6.609   7.07    379761
Sub.-Total Roads                       1. t60516   l.960tl64  2.131.516  NM=533    2.669.724   2.890422   3.126.531  16.72,05    20.57   12.430  13.394  14494"  16.412  179600  iiM       103,614
2.utrS.pl iaMd Sewerage             511.921    39,264    664.797  1.000.76   1.122.09W   1.252.066   1.436.209   6.576.933    39371   3.748   4.166   6,212   6.97   7.629   6.62   40,454
1. 9.ursl Eecttmiicmtiui                 162.259    273.627    1MM1    192.30        201.924     212.020     222.621   1.340.339    1.071   I.106   1.140   lo94   1.241   1.29    I.343   3.9M4
Sub-Total Rujral Infrastriwturo          2,279.771  2.722,75  2.935.464  3.520.414   3.99.65    4.355307   4.705441  24.650.320   15.012  17,341  16.707 21.899  24.551  26.523  23.1  1.3291
E. Institution Staulthtiwnt
1. Rational Project  anwaiommt          593.621    621.62    392,92   242.45         24539       194,795    205.437   2.496.941    3M91   3M96    262   1.503        t 1,59    .26   1.229   15.774 
2.Cowerative Credit Syst,.              73.061    113.24      95.95       .6          618--                            3955         46      73      60      3535              -       -   29                   
3. Studies                              309.57       MM03      16.645     179477      113.51           --                335.034    2.039    147    104    100        213       -       -   2,511
Sub-fotal Institution St rmnUithns           977250    762,931    535231    315.993      11.913i     MM47V      20543    3.241,953   6.435  4.560   3.166   1961   1.96   1t25   1.239   2k140
total PROJECT COSTS                        7,0%9.35  3.22773  19.13974  9.71.00   10.9.15   11.416,377  10.293246i 66,57,995   46729  52.334 57.234  06639  67.54   O9.525  Q2.62   415.079
----------a   ssta                                                     -t   asstStaf    ean   aa   as,sta 
tud.   . 190   5100



-48 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 4
-24 2  'o.ts ,emnts ire   w;7e,     .:
sO*tO 'i  flJ.^t La O.I*   *:.:
'Ese,  Wl 
?Ose :otsts                                            Fo tis, n E£:onfse
89/90      0.,/II      t/919      92/93       931,4        94/95        t596       Totai         z     6Awnt
.:.....n...nt.n: .nn....s ......... ..n.s... as.. z...... .  ......*Mas  *S.....h...   -2..*    S #
1. IzsivETII  COSTS
A. Civil Works
Land Acaussitin                                     61.200     69.066 9U0700          91.120       98.900      91.900       54.900     557.768    0.0             0
Eatetkis                                           19.140    278.694    430,321    332.267        438.030     n6.053       329,156   2.99.60   31.5        "5.545
Striitui                                           659P56     6 3a7.86    490,626    326.a44      320.375     601o90       224.9e5   2.2,2 V      27.5     M403
Pii.                                                61.549     9919    192.775    10668d6          58.78      177.67        58.77-      752PS51   31.5     227.154
hrdtegmgnical Euialnt                               76,36      71.133    110.841      92456        84,666     1749471       63675      674.071   27.1      162.497
on-tape Meaks                                       459464     49.158      32o67      43.406       27.246      20.093       13.114     236.162   21.2       49"O
Lawr                                                "9.53    100,876       759225     57.936       69.564      90.168       46.65      539.019    0-0            0
Road Cmnstmetion                                 192559732  1.392427  1392427  140350   1.494.924   1#494.94   19494p924   9.9.46   21.2   2.101.748
Dririris MUl?, Swal,                               226.333    226.333    226.333    39578         395.7n      395.776      395.77    2.2U6111   21.2    460.111
Sewa  Swstv                                        169867    169.67    169,867    1698667         169,867     169.667      194,133   1.21333   15.9        193.3
Rupal Eltr.iticatoln                               150.776    15017 0. 150.776    150.778         150.778     150,778      150.773   1.r055444    7.5       76.944
Virrwed Camtrietioa                              104478O0  1,5279267  1,691,567  1.909660O   2,135.900   10068IO0   1,279.267  10.679.500   46.3  4.ff5.250
Sub-iotal Civil Weark                               4.050.670  4.769,506  5.056.140  5.062.327   5442w606   5.451.66    4,313,152  34166969"   29.7  10162977
8. E.uaicent tor hia-ixdustritu                     19022.963  1.0229963  1.022963  1#022.963   19022o963   1.022.963   1.022.963   71460,741   32.5  2.3300741
C. Ottict Esuimpt
Camuters                                            21822      62578       35.408          -            -           -            -     119806   90.3        96,237
0th. Eguipnt                                       56c,20     669,7       259691     11.715            -           -            -     160,723   26.1       41P996
Sue-lotal Oftic. Eeui,wt                               78,342    129.375      610O99     11,715            -           -            -     290531   49.3      138.233
8. V*iele                                             18368.4     54.876      U,390      109269       41719            -            -     3159139   60.3    253131
E. Tedmical Asistan   an  Trainint
CawulUnt,                                           43,299     44,634      50,925     30,706       31.092      60,804       43,245     304.707    0.0            0
Enginterird Stuein                                  58,644     28,311      59,251     84. 77      140-544           -                  371.078   15.9       59.128
wal Studie,                                        .73,250     19,050      13.050     13.  4       13.050           -            -     3319450   19.7       65.250
uuan,  ct   troa ts                                 4230       42U,306     42.30      42.46        42.306      30.111       30.111     271.753    5.4       14.540
F.llowhin                                           27,400     27.400      25.251     23.103       109719       9.860       10,440     134.173  100.0      134.173
Local Training                                      41,480     54.365      52.U0      54.420       46,365       7.965        7.965     265.210    0.0            0
Sub-Total Tach,cal ksistnce anrd Trainiri             486379    216,066    243,434    247,914        284.077     106.740       91.76    1,67S8371   16.3      273.091
Total INvCST"DIT COSTS                                 5.822.439  6,192,789  6,408,024  6375,1S9    .7;91j664   6.563.591   5,427.877  43.601.472   30.2  13.156.180
11. °CINT COSTS
A. Staff Sala,ixa                                    138.010    164I970    193,070    202.970      201,470      I"9.970      199,970   1.30040    0.0              0
B. C00
Civil Works                                        92,060    189.606    290.277    406769       526.810      6534034      773817   29932.653   10.0    293.265
Eouin nt                                            2.113      3870        8,069     11,659       14.651      21.765       249116      86.243   10.0        8.626
Vehicle.                                           43.596     56,092      61.865     64.162       73.863      73.742       73.742     447.062   10.7       479665
Sub-Total 0 1 0                                      137.68    249.84       36O.212    482.590     6159324      740.542      871.675  31465.99      10.1     349.556
Total REDC IT COSTS                                      2759778    414818    553.282    685,560        816.794     948.512   190719645   4.766.36       7,3     349.556
Total 8A8I6E.   COSTS                                   6,096.217  6.607.606  6t961.306  7.O60,749   7t60GP35    7.532103   6.499522  46.367.60   27.9  13.507.736
Phnicel Continimnuin                                   478.586    533,037    558.130    557797"       5969641     586.696      471.974  3I782,64   30.6  1.158.163
Prie. Centindncami.                                    519.502  I,062v134  1.614,537  2.0 9456   2.783.253   3.297.576   3.321.751  14.7179210   27.7  4,076.776
ToUal POECT COSTS                                       7.096306  8222778  9.133.974  9.717,002  10.968.251  11.416P377  10.293.246   e.867.934   2e.0  13,742.675
.sas*stsas  .s.-3:m   zszs.xssn 2ts3.s2f. *:*saxaa..--St           mas   f 3                    massas S
Taxes                                                   56.088     479955      22.254      7.240       8.800            -            -     142337    0.0             0
Fortion Excha                                        2.002.374  2,418.034  2663274  2,8o1,683   3.179.650   2.94.555   2.663.104  18,742.675    0.0                  0
March 6. I9    15106



- 49 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 5
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVE (CCCAM)
Balance Sheets 1985-1987
(Escudos Millions)
ASSETS              1987   1986   1985       LIABILITIES          1987    1986   1985
Central Bank          55       7      13     Sight Deposits         66     162  6,894
Discounts &        2,751  1,641    916       CCAMs Surplus    28,573  19,903         -
Advances
Cash & Banks      10,819 12,997  4,683       Accruals           4,196   2,512  1,202
Medium Term       13,024  4,955    756       Provisions for        276      97      20
Loans                                        bad Loans
Stocks and         6,012  2,793  1,463       Equity                640     296    212
Bonds
Accruals           1,034    525    288       Net Profits           296     241      47
Bank Premises        352    293    225
Totals            34,047 23,211  8,374                         34,047  23,211  8,374
0181z/10



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVE (CCCAM)
Aggregate Balance Sheet (6/88)
(Escudos Millions)
ASSETS                                        LIABILITIES
Deposits Central Bank             1.7         Sight Deposits                  40.0
Accounts Receivables              1.8         Term Deposits                  102.0
Accounts in Banks                39.0         Other Creditors                 31.3
Loans                          127.0          Interest (Payable)               7.7
Fixed Assets                      9.7         Provisions for bad debts         1.4
Equipment                         2.2        Capital                           4.6
Interests (Receivable)          11.9         Reserves                          4.6
Net Profits                      1.7
Totals                         193.3                                         193.3
oI8lz/ 1l



ANNEX 1
- 51 -                            Table 7
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Equipment List)
Unit Price                Total Cost
(Contos)                  (Contos)
Item                        No.                   Local        Foreign        Total
A. Vehicles
Light cars for
Extension Agents       111       1,200        33,300        99,900     133,200
Coopcredit Agents       -2       1,200           600         1,800       2,400
DRTM                    30       1,500        11,200        33,800      45,000
CCRN                    52       1,500        19,500        58,500      78,000
Subtotal                              64,600       194,000      258,600
B. Computer Equipment
DRTM Office              7         675         2,500         2,500       5,000
CCRN Office             44         675        14,850        14,850      29,700
CCAMs                  114         675        38,475        38,475      76,950
Subtotal                              55,825        55,825      111,650
C. Office Equipment
DRTM Office                                   22,500         7,500      30,000
CCRN Office                                   83,550        27,850     111,400
CCAMs                                         11,250         3,750      15,000
Subtotal                             117,300        39,100      156,400
TOTAL                                237,725       288,925      526,650



ANNEX 1
Table 8
- 52 -
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Staff and Training Requirements
Items                                                     FY1990       FY1991
Agricultural Research
DRTM Research Specialists                                4            6
Agricultural Extension
DRTM Field Staff                                        23           20
DRTM Extensionists to Cooperatives                       6
DRTM Planning Department
Agroeconomists Planners                                6
Research and Production Support
Specialists                                        13
Farm Management Tra.ning Experts                       5
Cooperatives Experts                                   2
Entrepreneurial Support Cabinet
Business Specialists                                     8
FENACAM Credit Cooperatives
Financial Economists                                     3
Agronomists                                               3
TOTAL                                                      73          26
Training
Basic Training
DRTM New Recruits                                       23           20
DRTM Refresher Courses for Extension Agents             30
FENACAM Staff                                            5
0181 zfp. 2S



ANNEX 1
- 53~ -Table 9
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursement at End of Semester
and Semester                                      (USS million)
FY90
December 31, 1989                                        4.0
June 30, 1990                                           11.4
FY91
December 31, 1990                                       17.4
June 30, 1991                                           23.9
FY92
December 31, 1991                                       29.9
June 30, 1992                                           36.7
FY93
December 31, 1992                                      43.4
June 30, 1993                                           49.7
FY94
December 31, 1993                                       56.5
June 30, 1994                                           63.7
FY95
December 31, 1994                                       70.6
June 30, 1995                                           77.7
FY96
December 31, 1995                                       83.5
June 30, 1996                                           85.0
FY97
December 31, 1996                                       86.5
June 30, 1997                                           88.0
FY98
December 31, 1997                                       90.0
O I $I z/2



ANNEX 2
- 54 -                          Table l
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmgate Financial and Economic Prices
Financial          Econonlic
(Esc/Kg)           (Esc/Ig)
Port Wine (Grapes                                        120               120
Table Wine (Grapes)                                       25                25
Seed Potatoes                                             40                50
Commercial Potatoes                                       25                23
Rye                                                       44                19.4
Wheat                                                     47                24.6
Maize                                                     45                 19.7
Melon                                                     40                40
Beans                                                    135               135
Onions                                                    50                50
Cauliflower                                               44                44
Zucchini                                                  44                44
Cherries                                                 160               128
Table Olives                                              68                 72.1
Olives fo: Oil                                            51                37.2
Milk (liter)                                              41                32.8
Calf (head)                                          75,000             75,000
Culled Cow (head)                                   110,000            110,000
In-Calf Heifer (head)                               150,000            150,000
Finished Steer (head)                               140,000            140,000
Lamb (head)                                          20,000             20,000
Culled Ewe (head)                                     8,000              8,000
Wool                                                     200               200
Shadow Wage Rate for Labor:                                                    .75
Conversion Factor for Mechanization,
Fertilizer, and Chemicals                                                     .75
Conversion factor for Construction Ccsts:                                      .8



ANNEX 2
Table 2
- 55 -
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production
(tons)
Annual           Total            Incremzntal
Incremental      Production         as a X of
Production 1/   in Portugal 2/         Total
Seed Potato                        9,787          [1,027,600             1.4
Commercial Potato                 4,864
Rye                                  424             118,700              .04
Wheat                              1,801             317,400              .06
Maize                                979             445,400              .02
Beans                                132              38,300              .01
Onion-3                            4,603              60,000             6.7
Cauliflower 3'                    4,603                     -            -
Zucchini3/                        4,185
Melon                              3,301                    -            -
Table Olives                         229              20,000             1.1
Olives for Oil                        10             219,000             -
Cherries-4                           427               9,757             4.4
Table Wine Grapes                    183           9,000,000             -
Milk (hl)                         18,227             900,000             2.0
Calves (head)                      1,119                    -            -
In-Calf Heifers (head)            1,586                    -             -
Culled Cows (head)                   490                    -            -
Finished Steers (head)             1,899                    -            -
Lambs (head)                     31,192                    -             -
Culled Ewes (head)                12,087                    -            -
Wool                                 107               9,000             1.2
1/ At full development, from 8,500 ha of irrigated area.
2/ 1976-85 national average. Source: Estatistica Agricolas, 1986.
3/ Representative of a mix of vegetables that could potentially be produced.
4/ Representative of a mix of fruit trees that could potentially be produced.



ANNEX 2
-56 -                            Table 3
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yields
(tons/ha)
Without           With Project
Project           Full Development
Seed Potato                                12                    25
Commercial Potato                          12                    25
Rye                                           .75                 1.5
Wheat                                       2                     3.3
Maize                                       1.5                   3
Beans                                         .2                   .4
Onion                                       -                    12
Cauliflower                                                      12
Zucchini                                    -                    12
Melon                                      12                    20
Table Olives                                -                     1.25
Olives for Oil                              1.25                  1.3
Cherries                                    -                     3.5
Table Wine Grapes                           2.5                   3.5



ANX 2
Table 4
- 57 -
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Rates of Return
Financial                    Economic
Base case Cost up Benefits down
102          20X
Replanting Vineyards            14Z                12Z        11          10
IRRIGATION
- Rehabilitation of             17Z                20Z        19Z          181
Traditional Schemes
- New Schemes in the            10                131        121          101
High Valley Zone
- New Schemes in the            111                121        11          101
Terra Quente Zone
AGROINDUSTRY
- Olive Oil Processing          161                201        181          14Z
- Winery Modernization          18%                321        25Z          161
0 1 8 I z/20



P 'RT', GAL
18811   2 2  Vineyard Rleplanting lain Model
FINANeIAL   811DGII
Cr,opping year
wit houl                                                         With Prjo,t.
I to 30      I        2       3       4      5       6       7        8        9        tO      II       12       /3      14    l5 to JO
Rain Production
lable Nine                                                                          b8 8  g5 0
Port Nine                                        240 0                                             b00 0  b60 0  l,b0 0  b660    bb 66  0  660 0  bb0 0  bb0 0  660 0               6b0 0
Sub lotal Rain P'rod~uct ion                         240 0                              68 8   95 0  b00 0  bf,0 0  1660 0  660 0  bl,lI 0  660 0  666,0   64.0 0  660 0               660 0
not ValuetOf Producti,n                              240 0                              68 8   9150   ~00 0   bb00   bb00   bb600   660ti0   bbOt    660b0   bb600   6600              660 0
Prod.kci Ion Cos I
InOput,.
Clearing of old vineyard                             ho00
Col'strucl on Of IerraL..e                          b00 0
Destoning.  Soil Prep                                48 0      II 0  25 6  S)2 8  52' 8
Sf10                                                          17 0   II 0
fixat ion System                                             188 5
fRINIlilIfIS                                         30 0                    18 0   18 0
Pilani Protecti,ij  themIesc..                                       10 5)  265 ',       b 
Sub  lolaf  Inputs                                      71,8 0  273 5  41 I 104 1 104 I
SuA. Iola] I-~e%108ni                                      768 0  271 5)  47 1 104 I 1041                                                                                                                                       1
Operat ing
IfIRIlI I I d',                             lOSI                                             /8 0    /8 0    180    /8 0    /8 0    /80    Is80    18 0    18 0               isO0O
Cli IIICA:a:                               26 8                                              2t1.8    21, 8    268    26 8    26 8    26 8    26 8    26 8    26 8           26 8I
RISC                                        II S5
RI CH"]N/Al lIll                            4 8                                              PI16     I'll     /9/q,    1'l I,  t'  .    l46      9,      146      9I)1 
MaIerjlIS                                  10 9                                               1,      t. I    6 7    6 7         6 7      6 7     6 7      6 7      6 7        67
Sub~ lotal Inpui%                              84 5                                             '/I   III I   91 I   'H  I   91  I   91 I   III I   'H  I   91 I                 Il1 I
Sub, lolal Oporai'rni.                             84 S                                               II /   9   /   '1H  / I   I   I1 I   91 /   I1 I   II  I   9i I1               91 I
Sub  lolal Produc  tion tosi                          84 S    168 0   21351  471I 104 I 104 1   9/1   I            I     q H/    II If II 41           I 1   '1 I   91 I   91 I          91 I
CASH8 F/ON 81101R1 IIIIANCINI.                       /55I, 760   271A %                7 I  A154    q I  '.090o  1.u10   .1,1 0  56b9 0  564 0  56,9 0  bl64 0   "69 0  !569 0         Sti9 0
Sources Of I iodnce
Disburseenls On long lerie loan                             95i 5   19/ 9 148 1 212 0 218 
Dmsbursmonts tOn ShortlIe-ii  loan                         935, 0
Sub Total Sources Of finance                                 1.030 i  341 9 148 I 212  0218 5
loang Repayent Prncoo0  2   l0g 2   116 9   126 2   .36 3   147 2   I'i9 0   171 7  165 S
long Term interest                                                                                 100 1    92 1    8I34    74 1    64 0    53 1    41 3    28 6   .148
Sub total loan Rlepayments                                                                             200 3  200 3   20103  2003   2003   200 3   200 3  2003  200  3
Nti lFINACING                                                1.030 S)  39) 9 i48 I 212 0 218 5  200 3  200 .1  200 3  20031  200 3  200 3  200 3  200 3  200 3
18A1  FAIUIy BINIIIIS 8111:11 FINANCING              ISS 6    262 5   124 4 /0/ 0 [76 7 209 4  108 6  368 6  368 6  36d 6  36,86  368 6  168 6  368 6  368 8                           !i69 0
Returns. per family-Day of labor                                  3 8      I 2    I 4   2 5,   2 8       2 8      3 4      3 4     3 4      3 4      3 4      3 4     3 4      3 4           2
Nov~enr II. 1988 Il 13



ECIYIhIC AAL'.lS FO 10LINI VINEYAMS
1      2      3       4      5      6   7-30
INCOETIAL KNEF19S  -240.0 -240.0 -240.0 -171.3 -145.0  360.0  420.0
1ICEIIT.L COSTS       557.6  240.5   19.1   60.3   63.6   76.3   76.3
1 _r15, 1988 10:12
PRESENT WIUES OF MET STMS AT A DISOT RATE OF 13.51
3.1     UP1110i    UP 2I  UP O50  1M         01   NO20 SOIU50  LAS1 TEA LA 2 YEASLS 3 YEAS
t.l             -236.7     -155.5      -74.3       169.3    -317.8    -399.0    -642.6        -333.2     -418.3    -493.3
UP 102          -341.5    -260.3       -179.1       64.4    -422.7    -503.9    -747.5    -439.1         -523.2      -598.1
UP 202          -446.4     -365.2    -204.0       -40.4      -527.6    -606.7      -52.3      -542.9    -628.0    -703.0
UW SO1          -760.9     -679.7      -598.6    -355.0    -842.1       -923.3   -1.11.9      -85?.5     -942.6   -1.017.5
I02             -131.8      -50.6       30.6      274.1      -213.0    -294.2    -537.7    -22B.4        -313.5    -386.4
WA 2             -27.0       54.2       135.4     379.0    -106.1       -189.3    -432.9    -123.5    -206.6        -263.6                                                 VI
M5S              267.6      368.6      450.0       693.6      206.4      125.2    -116.3       191.0      106.0       31.0                                                 '0
LU  I YEA            -          -          -          -          -           -         -      -206.5    -293.6    -368.6
LS 2 TEMS            -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -     -183.7    -25B.7
LU  3 YEMAS          -                                                                                        -      -161.9
INTEW. PATES OF KRNT OF NET STENS
*.1     t10  l OtP 201        tS11502   DI110    W2 M          U502 LAG I YE  LA 2 YEAS LS 3 YENS
t.1             11.690     12.36      13.000     14.471      10.8869    S.9S        5.761     10.903     10.188      9.541
UP 10l          10.966     11.690      12.327     13.660     10.134      9.164      4.802     10.200     7-.51a      S.869
UP 202          10.281      1 O.03     11.60      13.290      9.422      8.419      3.684      9.540      8.876      8.283
W 502            8.419      9.234      9.952      11.690      7.482      6.386      1.277      7.759      7.078      6.66
No 1n           12.456     13.126     13.712      15.115     11.690     10.791      6.772     It.653     10.915     10.243
NW 202          13.20      13.914     14.471      15.797     12.547     11.6"       7.650     12.461     11.703     11.006
M    502        16.153     16.657     17.05       18.121     15.56     14.869     11.690     15.348     14.569     13.U24                                                           e-
LU I 961             -          -          -          -          -          -          -      11,690     10.903     10.186
LUA 2 YEARS          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -     11.6S0     10.903
LO 3 TEARS           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -     11.690



PO1RTU.GAL
Tras-os-Noft*s Rlegional De" eIGpment Proje,t
1A811   2 2  Iradilional Schemes   H -oh vaIlley A,."  I I haI I are. NolelI
fIgNACIAI 81UDG1]
lb. [SC I
Lropping )ea,
Witho.ut                    Hill. Project                                            Inc.-.aenllI
I to 30   to2    3          4      6      6       7 a Sto 30 1to2    3             4      6       6      7   ato 30
Ratn PrAd.ct ion
S..J Potato                                            93 6   93 6  93 1 107 6108 7 121 3128 9    144 0                               14 0   16 I  27 7  36 3         s0 4
C0mr'C'al Potato                                       68 6   SS       S 5 661 461 7  64 36659                 69 0                    2 9   3 2   6 a    7 3         10 6
Uhoat                                                  30 0    300  30 0328334  362377                         41 1                    27    3 4    6 1    7 7        IIII
Milk                                                                           738738  736735                  73 8                    738 733573 8735                7358
Calf                                                                           600   600   600   600           60 0                   600   60 0   60 0   60 0        60 0
In-calf Ho.l.,                                                      -          30 010 0  30 030 0              30 0                   30 0  30 0  30 0  30 0          30 a
ts§6                                                  160 0   1600 160 01600tb0016001600                      1600-                                             - 
C.lled Ewa                                             24 0    240   24 0 240   240   240   240                24 0
wool                                                     6 0     60    6 0      60    60    60    60            6 0                               -        
Sub-loeef Mai. Production                                 322 1  372  I 37?  I  5666    67 6 67'656 86I   Fi6079                         183 6 186 4 203 4 214 I   23658
Mel Value Of Prodsic lion                                 372  I  372  I 372 1 666b6 6676 676 665863   607 9                             1353     156 4 203 4 214 1   23'6 
Produaction Cost
I nvestwinnl
fstablishtnn  of taporary paseuwe                                          17 4 .74   i74   17 4           17 4                    17 4   17 4   17 4   17 4       17 4
Operat ing
Inputs
site                                            29 3   29 3  29 3  31 43172  31 731 7                  31 7                     2ui   2 3   2 3   2 3           2 3
fLIflikIlfRs                                     2 2     2 2    2 2 6S6         4 6    456    4 6       4 6                     4 4   2 3   2 3   2 3           2 3
Cheicals                                         1 3      13    1 3      13    13    13    13            1 3        --                             
RicIIANIl8IION                                  43 4   43 4  43 4  42 342 6  42 642S 6                 S6  7                    I I   0 9   -0 9   0 9         12 3I
RISC                                            24 3   24 3  24 3  30 2294  29 429 4                   29 4                     6 9    6 I   6 I   6 I          6 I
iivIsIOCA                                       66 3   5663  56 3 116     181181861 118               11I 8 6ie               62 2  62 2  62 2  62 2           62 2o
motor Charges /a                                                         26    26    26    26            26b                    26    2 6    26b   2 6          2 6
Subt loCal Inpluts                                 166 8   1566     156 8 232 9230 4 230 4230 4    243 7                          76 I  73 7  73 7  73 7          56 9
Sib-lotal O1.r&Iing                                   166 5   166 5 166 8 232 9230 4 230 4230 4   243 7                               76 I  73 7  73 7  ?I 7          56 9
Sui-lt la  Production Cost                                166 8   1566     166 8 2603 247 8 247 8247 6   261 I                            93 6  91 I  91 I  91 I    104 3
CASHf lioN 111061  FINANCING                              216 4  215 4 215 4 306 4309 7 327 733584   346 5                                90 0  94 4 112 4 123.1I  131 4
Sources Of finance
I,ansfe, Fr.j  Pr.-.no.s Period                       156A   IS668 166 6 260 3247 5 2478524 7                261                      93 6  91 1  91 I  9 1     104 3
loss fransler lo Neal Period                          156 5   1566     260 3 24785247 8 247 8261 1   261 I                     93 6  91 I  91 I  91 I 104 3    104 3
Sub bloab  Sources 0f finance                                              93 6   24                     13 3                     93 6    2 4                --13 3
Si  FIWANCING                                                             93 6    24                   -133                       93 6    2 4               - -13 3
FARM fMAlIY BINtifS A111R FIIiANCIFIG                    215 4  215 4 121 9 307 8309 7 327 7 125 2    346 8                      93 6  92 4  94 4 112 4 109 5    131 4
Returns per fam,ly Oay of  labor                            6 0      b 0    3 4   9 0      8 89    1 3 93           8 b                                                   29 8                                                                   F-ut'S
/A Becoocry 0f 161 of capital costs ov*r 20 years. farmer proc ides 0 A N
Septimlor 29.  1955   Il 14



PORTUGAL
Tra-oz-flont:e9 Regional Development Project
T8B11   1.2  traditional Schiams   Mountain Are& (I Ha I far.R Nodal
FINANCIAl   IIDGki
tin tsc I
Cropping year
Without                  Wi1th Projoct                                       Incremenlal
I to 3Olto 2    3        4      5      6     7   8 to 30lto 2    3          4     5      6      7   8 to 30
Main Product ion
Seed Potato                                       60 2   60 9  60. 9  69 5  69 8  77 281 7    90 6              -8 7   8 9  16. 3  20 8    29 7
Commercial Potato                                 38. I   38. I  38 1  38 3  39 8  41 3  42 2    43 9                      0 2   1. 8   3 2   4 I       s a
Rye                                                9.6    9 6   9 6 1 t        it 1212 3  I3         14 5                  14    1.7   27   3 5         5 0
milk                                              73.8   73. 8  73 873 873 873 8738                  73 8                                  -      -
Calf                                              600   60 0  60 00 60 60   06600so            o     60 0--
In-calf Ileifer                                   30,0   30 0  30.0  30 030 030 0300    30 0                                                               -
iamb                                 6~~~~~~0 0   60 0  60 0 160 0 160  2160 0 160 0   16O0                 tO010 100o ioo  oo 200 0   200 0
Culled two                                         80    8.0   8.0  24 024 024 0240    24 0                               160  160  16.0  16 O          16 0
wfool                                               3 0   3 03 06.0 60 606 0    6 0                                        30  3 0  3 0 30    30a
Sub-lotal Main Production                           343 3  343.3 343 3472 7474 7484 5490 7   5025                           129 3 131 4 141 2 147 4    l1595
Nat Val ue Of Production                             343.3  343.3 343 3472 7474 7484 5 490 7   5028                          1293 131 4 141 2 147 4    159 5
Pcoduction Cost
invostmenl
tstablishment of temporary pasture                               -  17. 417 4  17.4  174    17 4                       174  124  174   17 4         17.4
Operatinug
Inputs
SEED                                       23 3   233 23 324 824 324 3243                     24 3                   15   0 9   09   0 9         0 9
FERTILIZERS                                 2.0    2 0   2.0   54  44  44  444                 4 4                  34   2 4   24   2 4          2.4
Chwicals                                     1 6     1 6    1 6   2 0    19    19    19        1 9                  04   0 3   03   0 3          0 3
R(CHIANIZAIION                             38 8   38 8  38 8  37 7  35 7  38 7  387    49 3                          1     o 0I  -0 I  -0. I    10 5
RISC                                        17 0   17 0  17 0  23 7  20 2  20 2  20 2    20 2                       6 7   3 3   3.3   3 3        3 3 
LIVCSIOCK                                  83 1   83 I 83. I 118 5l18 5 11g 5l1185   Il8a5                         35 4  35 4  35 4  35 4    35 4                                               0
Water Charges /a                               .                  2 6262 626    2 6                                 26 2 626 26    2 6
Sub-Total Inputs                              165 7  165 7 165 7 214 7 210 6 210 6 210 6   221 2                      49 0  44 9  44 9  44 9    55 5
Sub-lotal Operating                              165.?`  16571 165 7 214.7 210 6210 6210 6   221 2                        49,0  44 9  44 9  44 9    55 5
Sub-Iotal Production Cost                            165.7  165. 7 165 7 232 I 228 0 228 0 228 0   238 6                     66,4  62 3  62.3  62.3    72.9
CASHI flow SIFORI FINANCING                          177.7  177,7 177 7 240.6 246 7256.6 2625    264 2             -      -62,9  69 I  78.9  85 I    86.6
Sources Of finance
Transfer froms Previous Period                   165 7  165 7 165 7 232 I 228 0 228 0 226 0   238 6                       66 4  62.3  62-3  62 3    72 9
toss Transfer To  ext Period                     165. 7  165,7232 1228 0228 0228 02386   2386                   -  66 4  62.3  623  62.3  72 9         72 9
Stb-lotal Sources Of finance                                  -     65 4   4 I       -         106 566 4   4 1                          -        -10 6
MET FINANCING                                            -       --66 4   4 I        -         tO 6                    66 4   4.I                 10. 6       -1.
FANR FAMILY RINEFIIS AfTER FINANCING                 177.7  177.7 III 3244 7246 7256 62522    264 2                - -66 4  670  69 I  789  74 5    8686
Returns per family-Day of tttbor                       5.4    5 4   3.4   8 2   79   82   8 I            7 3                            -     -      -    248A
/a Recovery of 151 of capital costs osar 20 years. farmer provides 0 A M.
Septmmber 29. 1988 17:14



POMTGAL
Tras-os-flontes Regional Development Project
Economic Rate of Return   Rehebilbtat ton ol Iraditional Sches
milliorns of Iscudos
I       2         3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10       11       12       13       14       Is        16       1l   16-30
tarm  family Net Blenefits        0 0    -0 0      -0 0      12 5    33 2    75t 1   137 7   221 7   306 6   3b6 5   461 7   528 8   SIB 2   605 5   618.                625 7   628 3   620.8
Capital Cost of Project         232 0   237 4    177 0    136.3   163 7   212 2    109 8                                                   
Not Denefits                   -232 0  -237.4  -171 0  -123 9  -130 4  -137 0    279   221 7I 306.6   386 5   461 7   528 8   578 2   605 5   618.5   625 7   628.3   6238A
Novemer 16. 1988 16 33
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
M. 1RA0                    20-271
PHESINI VAIUIS Of NEI SIREAnS Al A DISCOUNI RAI[ Of 13 sji
8. TRADECON       UP l0X        UP 20:       UP S0l    DOWN 101    oalN 20:    DOWNl 501  tAG I TIAR LAG 2 YEARS tAG 3 YEARS
C TRAD(CON            710 8        864.2       1.017 6       1.477.9        557 4         404 0          56 2        528 4         361 6         225 9
UPIO0I                628 5        781 9         935 3       1.395.6        475 1         3217         -138 6         446 0        285 3         1436
UP 20:               546 2         699 6         853 0       1. 313 2        392 8        239 3         220 9         363 7        202 9          61 3
UP S0l               299.2         452.6         606.0       1.061 2         1458&         -7 6         467 9         116 7        -44 1        -1857
DOWs  lox             793 2        946.6       1.1l000       1. 5802        6i397         4863           26 t        610 7         449 9         3083
DO1W  201            875 5       1028. 9       1. 182 3      1. 642 5       722 I         568 7         108 4        693 0         532 2         3906                                                             0
DO0W  501          1. 122 5      I. 275. 9     1.429 3       1.689 5        969 I         815 6         355 4        940 0         779 2         63?76                                                             .
[AG IYEAR                        -             -             -                   -                          -        626 3         465 5         3239
tAG 2 TFAS                -.-.                                                                                            -        551 8         4101
AG63 YEARS                              -             -            -             --                                                              4862
INIFRNL RAtES Of RFIUPN Of Nfl SIREA1S
8. TRADECON       UP 101        UP 201s      UP S0l    DOWN 101    DOWNl 20:    DOWeN 501  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C. IRAD[CON         20 273        21. 437       22. 532      25 492        19 028        17 686        12 812        18. 306      16 735        15. 442
UP 101               19. 144      20. 273       21. 334      24 201         17I938       16 637        II 908        17 330       15. 872       14. 667
UP 201               18 145       19241         20.273        23 058        16 972       15.708        It 106        l6.462       15 101        13. 973
lip 501              Is5708       16 727        17 686       20 273        14 617        13 439         9 140        14 327       13 1S?        12 250
0DOWN 101           21 562        22 768        23. 902      26 968        20 273        18. 884       136842        19 416       17. 712       16.318                                                                    -
DOWN1201            23.058        24.312        25.492       28.681        21 717        20.273        15 035       20 696        18.835        17.320                                                                    g
DL.11501            29. 649       31 116        32 497        36 227       28 080        26 390        20 273       26. 250       23 650        21. 581
tAG I YEAR                                                                                                          20. 273       18.306        16. 735                                                                   F
lAG 2 YEARS                                                  -                                                            -       20. 273       I8. 306                                                                   t
tAG63 YEARS               --                                                                                                                    20 273                                                                    % 



PORTUGAL
Tr&a-oa-ilontae Rlegonal D.u.lopaent Project
1A6LE   1 2  Now Schemes~ Iligl  Vslley Are& ~ueeIl fare  (I "a ) Fs-e Hodel
FINANCIAt BUDGIiI
(I. tsc 
troppling year
Wjthoul                      Withi Project                                            Increi.wnt AI
i to 30 1 to 2    3          4      5       6      1   8 lo 30  I to 2    3           4      5       6      7   8 to 30
Main. Procducflon
Seed Potato                                            77 4    77 4    37  4  87 799 0 1170 127 8    10~ 4                               tO3  21 6  39 6  50 4           72 0
Coiwirc.ia  Potato                                     48 4    48 4    48 4  54 I  55 0  60  o'iJ i    69 4                               5 7   6 6   11 6  14 7         21 0
Nhieat                                                 35 4    35 4    35 4  40 040.7  45 0  47 7               52 9                      4 6   5 3   9 6   123           I? 5
Milkh                                                  1435   1435   1435 32803280 3280 3280    3280                                    1845l1845 184 51845    184 S
Calf                                                    75.0    750    750   750   750   750   750              75 0                                 -                       -
Culled Co-                                             220  220  220 440440 440 440    44 0                                              220 220 22 0220    22.0
ln. Calf fleifer                                                            -  30 030 0  30 0  30 0             30 0                     30 0  30 0  30 0  30 0          30 0
leaNt                                                  60 0    60o0    60 0 160 0160 0 160 0 160 0    160 0                             100 0 tOO 0 tOO 0 tOO0    tOO 0
Culled 1..                                               8 0     8 0      8 0  24 024 0  240   24 0             24 0                      160   160   16 0 160            16.0
wool                                                     3 0     3 0      30    60       b60    60    6 0         bO                       3 0    3 0    3 0     30        3.0
Subj lotal HA-n Product 'on                               472 6  472.6  472 6 848 88616 68890 905 5    938b6                                376 2 3890 416 3432 9   466.0
Net Valve Of Product ion                                  472 6  472 6  472 6 C48 8861 6 889 0 905 5    938 6                               376 2 389 0 416 3 432 9    466.0
Production Cost
I nvestme.et
Establishment of teuqtorary pasture                                          17 4 17 4   17 4   174          17 4                     17 4   17 4   17 4   174        17 4
Operating
Inputs
5110                                            32 I   32 I   32I  35 0  34 8  34 8  34 8                34 8                      2 9    2 6   2 6   26           2 6
fERNIIlI)1S                                      2.5      2 5     2 5   60    43   4 3   4 3              4 3                      3 6    I 9    I 9    I9         I 9g
ChweticalIs                                      IS      S1        15    IS    IS    IS          IS       15 
NECHAAKIlAIION                                  42 4   424    42 4  53 248 2  48 2  48 2                 63 4                     108    5.9    5 9   59          21 0                                                      0
NISC                                            25 8   25 8   25.8  37 133 7  33 7  33 7                 33 7                     II 3   8 0   8 0   80            8 0
LIV[510C6                                      107 9   107.9   107 9 229 3229 3 229 3 229 3   229 3                              121 4 121 4 121 4 121 4    121.4
fator Chiarges /a                                   .        .           299299 299 299                  29 9                     299  29 929 9299                29 9
Si.b-1otal Inputs                                 212  I  212. I  212 1 391 9381 7 381 7 381 7   396 9- 179 8 169 6 169 6 169 6    t84 S
Subt-otal Operating                                   212  I  212  I  212.1 3919 381 7 381 7 381 7   396 9                              179 8 169 6 169 6 166 6    184 I
Sub-Total Productio. Cost                                 212 1  212  I  212 1 409 3399 1 399 1 399 I   414 3                               197 2 167 0 187 0 187 0   202 2
CASH Flow1 8f1081  FINANCING                              260 8  260 6  260 6 439 5462 6 489 9 506 5   524 4                                179 0 202 0 229 3 245 9    263 8
So.rces Of8 finance
Transfer frome Previo.s Period                        212  I  212  I  212  I 409 3399 1 399  1 399  1   414 3                           197 2 187 0 187 0 187 0    202 2
toss Iransfer To Ne.t Period                          212 1  212. I  409 3 3991I399 1 399 I 414 3   414 3                        197 2 187 0 187 0 187 0 202 2   202.2
Sub-t-otal Sources Of Finance                                             -197.2   10 2                   152                        197 2   10 2                   1
NEI  FINANCING                                                              197 2   10 2                   IS 2                      197 2   10 2                 -IS 2 
FARM fAHIti RINFIfIS AFIER FINANCING                      2606  2606    63.3 449 7462 6489 9491 3   524 4                           197 2  189 2202.0229 3230 7    2638
Returns per family Day of labor                             7 6      7 6      I 8    9 3   tO 9   11 5   II 6       tO 9                     13 6  25.1  28 4  28.6           19 I
/a   Reco.ory of ISX of cap costs ouer 20 years 118 7 ConI.  full 0 £ HIII 2 Cor)
Septembier 29. 1988   1i 15o



PORTUGAL
Tras-oa-tlontes Regional DeVolopiallint Project
14811  2 2  Now Schems 11-gh ;alley Area    Large For.  (3 Ha I To-  Modol
FINANCIAL BUDGET
ll [SC I
Cropping yea,
-     -------  -     --     ---     --     ----     -   ----     -     ----
Without                            Mith Project                                                       Incrmwntal
I to 30 1 to 2        3         4         5        6         7     a lo 30 1 to 2   3            4         5         6         7    8 to 30
Main Produc tm
Seed Potato                                          3096   309 6   3096   3793   4003   491 0   568 8   5688                                        697    90 7    1514   2SS2   2SS 2
Commerc.al Potato                                    1935    193 5    1935   2129   2187   256 b   265 5   2655                                      194      25 2      fil0      72 0     72 0
Wheat                                                1213    121 3    1213    1334    136a    151 7    i65 3    IC53                                 121       is f..   30 5      44 0      44 0
Nilk                                                 4305   430 5   4305   8200   9200   820 0   820 0   8200                                       3895   3895   3895   389S   382 S
Call                                                 1125    112 5    1125                                                                          1125    1125    1125   -1125   -1125
C-lied Co-                                            92 5      92 5      92 5    tio0    1100    110 0    110 0    iio0                             275      27 5      27 5      27 5      27 5
In-calf Heifer                                        45 0      45 0     45 0    1950    1950    195 0    ig!) 0    1950                            ISO0    1500    150.0    Is*0    1.500
Finished Sloor                                            -                       2800   2800   280 0   280 0   2900                               2600   2800   2800   2600   290A
I&m1b                                                1600    160 0    1600   4900   4800   480 0   480 0   4800                                    3200   3200   3200   3200   320 0
Culled i-O                                            24 0      24 0      24 0     720       72 0      72 0     72 0      72 0                       480      48 0      48 0      48 0     48 a
wool                                                   6 0       6 0       6 0      is0      is 0      la 0      is 0     la 0                       120       12 0     12 0      12 0      12 0
S-b folal Main Production                             1.484 9 1.484 9 1.48492.700 5 2.730 9 2 A?4 3 2-974 62.974 6                                   1.215 6 1.246 0 1.389 4 1.489 7 1.489 7
Not Value Of Prodct.on                                 1.484 9 1.484 9 1.48492.700 5 2.730 8 2.874 3 2.974 62.974 6                                  1.215 6 1.246 0 1,399 4 1.489 7 1.489 7
Prod.ctioi, Cosi
lnvesiment
(stabl,shoient of togo,&ry posture                                              522      52 2      52 2      1,2 2    52 2                       522       52 2     52 2      52 2      52 2
Operating
I nPut s
SLID                                           96 4     96 4      96 4    1051   1043    104 3    104 3    1043                                86       7 9       7 9       7 9       7 9
FERTItIlERS                                     7 4       7 4      7 4      181       13 0      13 0     13 0      13 0                       iO7       5 6       5 6       5 6      5 6
Chmicsis                                        4 4       4 4      4 4       44        4 4      4 4       4 4       4 4                                    -         -        -         -                                  I
PECHANIIATION                                  92 8     92 8      92 8    1164    1055    105 5    105 5    LIST0                            236       12 7      12 7      12 1    56 2                                   0%
liisc                                          77 4      71 4     77 4    1000        94 9     94 9      94 9      94 9                      226       17 6      17 6      17 6     17 6                                   4-
IIVESTOCK                                     2940   294 0   2940   6853   6853   685 3   685 3   6853                                      3913   3,13   391-3   3013   39i 3
Mate, Chargos /a                                   -        -               897       99 7    89 7       59 7      89 7                      897    ag 7         89.7      $9.7     89 I                                   I
-     --   -     -------     -----     -     ------                                                       ---    -     -------     -------  ------
Sub-lotal Inputs                                 5724   572 4   5724 1,118 8 1.097 1 1,097 1 1,097 11. 1426                                     5464   S247   S24.7   524 7   SiO.2
Hired Labor
Unskilled                                          -                  -         -                            -      2 7                          -         -                         2,7
- - -- --- -- ---- ------- ------- -------
Sub-Total Operating                                  S?24   572 4   5724 1.119 8 1.097 1 1.097 1 1.097 11, 1453                                -   546 4   524 7   524 7   524 7   572 9
--    --    -    -    ----   -----    -------    -- I----    -------     ---   ---     ---- -
Sub-Total Pnduction Cost                                5724   572 4   5724 1.171 0 1.149 3 1.149 3 1.149 31. 1975                                    598 6   576 9   576 9   576.9   625 1
CASH fLOM BEFORE FINANCING                               9125   912 5   9125 1.529 5 1.581 6 1.725 0 1.825 31.777 1                                    617 0   569 1   812.5   912 8   $64 6
Sources Of Financo
Transfer From Pr"to.s Period                         5724   572 4   5724 1.171 0 1.149 3 1.149 3 1.149 31. 1975                                    599 5   576 9   576.9   516 9   625 1
kwss Transfer Yo Me.1 Period                         5724   S72 4 1. 17101. 14931. 149 3 1. 149 3 T. 197 51. 1975                         599 6   576 9   576 9   576.9   625 1   625 1
- - ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
S.b-lotol Sources Of Finance                                               -5986       217                          48 2                     598 6      21 7                        -48 2          -
NE) tiNANCING                                                               5986       217                          48 2                      ljga 6    21 7                          48 2
FARM FAMIIY BENEFIFS AFTER FINANCING                     9125   912 5   3139 1.551 2 1.581 6 1.725 0 1.717 11.777 I                          _S98 6   638 7   6691   8125   864 6   864 6
4-3
Ret.,ns pe, Family Day of labor                           10 9      to 9      3 8      is5       16 9      18 4     19 0      16 3                      39 3      67 6      82 1    87 1       34 4                                         lb
---    -----      -     -     --     ----    -----  -------     -----     -  ------     -------------
/a  Reco.ory of 152 of cap costs over 20 yearsIS6 I Conf . f u II 0 AT N 133 6 Con)
-------      ----    ----------     ---------------     -     -                                ----      -     ---------------     ----------------------------
Septotv"r 29, 1988 17 15



PORTUGAL
Tras-oo-lMontes Regional Development Project
Econmic Rate of R8gm  - Now Schnes Hig  Vallev  Irue (lanolhal
millions of Escudos
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9       10      11       12      13       14      15   W-30
Fe  Feily Not htfits           1.0     1.0      1.0     3.2      4.8     9.5    14.5    19.9    22.3    24.0    24.8    25.1    25.3    25.4    25.4    25.4
catal Cost f elo              19.1    70.1    23.6         -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -       -
berating Cost of Sdiom            -       -        -     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2
Not lufats                   -18.2   -69.1   -22.4       2.0      3.4     8.3    13.3    12.7    21.1    22.8    23.6    23.9    24.1    24.2    24.2    24.2
br_ot lt 19M 15:59
Intool Rates of Rttun of lNt Strom
UI.IUL                   12.7M2
PlESENIT VKUES OF N1 SRMIS  At A DPS   IIITE  F 13.51
8.1     ox   0        UP           tP202  LP 5 381011 OW  I    20      WA  SOt U6 I YEAR LM2T YE4S LA  3 YEARS
t.1                  -6.5          2.2        10.9         36.9        -15.2        -213.9      -49.9        -16.8        -25.9        -33.9
UP 101              -15.8         -7.2          3.5        27.5        -24.5        -33.2       -59.2        -26.2        -35.3        -43.3
UP 20?              -25.2        -14.5        -7.8         18.2        -33.8        -42.5       -68.5        -35.5        -44.6        -52.6
U7 502              -53.         -44.5       -35.3         -9.8        -61.8        -70.5       -96.5        -63.5        -72.6        -80.6
No  101               2.8        I.5         20.2        4U.2          -5.9        -14.5       -40.6         -7.5        -36.6        -24.6
A    20              12.1        20.8         29.5         55.5          3.5         -5.2       -31.2          1.8         -7.3        -15.3
mm  502              40.1        46.8         57.5         83.5         31.4         22.8        -3.3         29.8         20.7         12.7
LA6 I YEAR              -            -           -            -            -            -            -        -5.7        -14.8        -22.8
L    2 YEARS            -            -            -                                                              -         -5.1        -13.
L16 I2                  -            - Y                        ARS-4.5
IITER114L RATES OF RETURI OF NET STREMS
8.1     LIP 102        F 201      UP 501    mImIC           -          DOW   50   U6 I YER ULA 2 YERS LA  3 YEIRS                                                                                X
C.1                12.696      13.759       14.                       Il.Sb       10.353        5.961       11.526       10.576        9.785 
UP 102             11.                      13.644       16.33        10.581        9.408       5.141       10.625        9.7U9        9.052
p 27v                  1        11.759      12.696       15.250        9.710       8.572        4.409        9.825        9.04         8.395
UP 502              8.572       9.490       10.353       12.696        7.590       6.529        2.593        7.863        7.271        6.74
NW  101            13.873      14.32        16.033       18.918       12.696      11.435        6.692       12.555       11.493      10.U15
NW  202            15.250      16.414       17.520       20.562       14.015      12.696        7.967       13.748       12.550      11.567
NW  Sol           21.502       22.944       24.320       28.140       19.912      19.369       12.696       19.02S       17.149       15.456
146 I YER               -            -            -           -            -            -            -      12.696       11.526       10.57b
LAG 2  E                -            -           -            -            -            -            - Y S12.696                      11.524
L*S 391*6               -            -            -           -            -            -            -           -            -       12.6U6



PO51T1Gk
Tras-os-Hlont*s Regiot.a Developmnent Project
imtI2larra 4Qtnt@  Nw  9(ctwmo    Saba la I I      9.01SK lIt Ibr NW*l*IS
UIUMiCI    DM061
tin hb. I
Lropp.ng ysar
liftIo.,                   N'th P-03..t                                        Incremental
I to 30 I to 2   3         4     9      6      I   5 to 30 1 to 2   J9         4     9             I   a la 30
Ne.n Prod.bI,utn
so" Potato                                    34?7   34?7   34?7  41 t  44 9  9J4  -54            b54                     b I  10 3  1556  2351    338
Comrcial Potato                               21 1   21 1   21 I  23 9  24 3  26 4  21 A    30I3                           I 9   2 1   4 1   6 i        a 6
Nolan                                          "94   95 4   SI94  TOb   199  899  919    1144                             11 2   16 9   3095i  S8       s 90
"able                                          1I 9   16 1   1S I  IS 6  22 9  25 ij  29 3    13a                          I S   5 6   5 0   12 4    lb 9
loans                                          65      556    65A  113   13 5  139    iS  13         9 1                  4 6   6I 6  65        S       6 a
lhistn                                            -9909go0 990 990                                 990                   is9     9 00  gig   g,Is-   SS g
£a.l.Iflover                                                        T5?I  S? I 5lI II5?I    SI? t5  I ST I  I? I 5? t    5? I
l.~~~~~~chmns                    -              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~sasnas  , s asga   as           s -       s     s   a s ,sns a         5as5
Sulp lotal Nain. Produ.ction                     139 3  139 3  139 3 441 3 451 0 454 9 9027 1         36 2                 302 0 3I1?  345 6 3M  3   326 I
ftt Value 00 Prod.ilcmon                        139 3  139 3  135 3 441 3 451 0 4S4 9 902 1   9.562                        302 0 31?7 1 49 6 363 3   396 a
Production. Cost
Operal-9o
Is ps.t s
illS                                     2?I   1 21    I2    68 6  6191  619  6179         6I19                   S  I9  9932  SS2  I92         is92
liuiitilil[                             0 9    0 I    0 2   5 3   5 I   £ I   SI             aS                     7   4   1 2   1 2   1 2      2 2
Chemicals                               0 9    0 9    0         I 5   Ia   I    I II   I   I  II                       3   I 2   I 2   I 2       I 2
iFNoMllIIAuI                            1 60    1 60    1 60  31 2  31 I  11    31          311          I         192  IS I  I19 I  I9 I    I '
RISE                                     o  11 4    114 t  4  444  49 4  494  454    454                          3 29  34 0  34 0  34 0        3450 
N.mLls Caees /a                            -               -  2951  2 95  295  295          2a                    295   295a  295  295          295S 
9Shltotal Op,eratinsg                         41 5   41 9   41 9 INO0 I1500 1800 3500    IOa                            IN 159 138 9   138138 9i   13 5 
LAS9NI&O5 IUt  fiNuKIiNG                          91I   9158   215A2613 21103049 322?    39b2                               lb34 1192 20 1 1224A   295 3
Souirces Of F inance
Irenstew fro  fte.vobus Period                41 9   41 9   41 9 1500 ISO 0 ISO0 I1O00   Igo 0                          I35I9 135 9 135 9 13159   135 9
less Irenster to Se.1 Period                  41 9   41 9  Ig00 I800 ISoo0 ISo 0 Igo 0   Ito0                    I3I 9 I30 9 II3I 9J 13     1385   li 359
SisA  lolal So..rc*% OfI finance                                 li35     00                                         Ila5 9    00
Ni tiom5L1161   a39                                                        0                                         93 59    0 0
#AINlii ISNIIIS&UIl ll 511  lINSACINti            91 S   97 5   40 1 2b61 321? 0 304 9 322 1   396 2                 138 9 lbiJS  II11  2 201 I j24 5   295 3
Returns per Family Day of labor                    2 9    2 9      I 2   2 1   2 9   J 2   3 4         3 1                    2 6   2 9   3 3   36         4 2
it  Recovery of 191 of captital costs oera  20 wars 11  conlob). pl.s loll 0 A N 1I2 S ccrIos)
lapeiiarbe 29. OV41I I? lb
so5



PORTUGAL
Tras-os-Montots Regional D.vaIopoaent Project
,,*it  2 2  loors 0.n16 fwe  Schiw    Ier   legoI a  60 "ae I I am Mods I
lun toc I
N.lh@l                                             Stool Pioojei.
I lo30      I        2                   4                  b                   a          I      lO lo lO
Main P-.d-l.I*o
Seed Puliso                                   521 6   II         I    11 6   031b SIb 201 I   00  1  I 141., b  1.251 b  1. 211 b  1.251 b  I 261 6
Conrc ma' vometo                              Sol  Sg a ,    510 a    SoIl a A 309 0    3II 4    000s I    5lb 0    016 0    076 0    to7b *
ftlo-                            1~~~~~~~ 420 6S1. 42  6 1. 420 6  1 42% 6 ISl68,2 I   b!     I 020 6  2. 34% 6  2 14% 6  )  4% 6  2 140 6
ftole                                         301 5   301 S   J03 A        301 a    ill3   400 0    !o16 4    601 I    b0? 5    60? 0             60? %
leans                                         123 0   121 0    121 0       12I S   204 I   243 0    241 0    243 a    24 3 0    243 0    243 0
Onionl                                                                            I 720 1. 7620   1.182 0   I 7620   I 1s?20   1. 7520   1. 1526
Caoi f loeer                                                                      9.0Su2  1065e2   I %6112   1066s2   I%S65    l%68Su2   1Su62
im.cchmn.                                                                         1. 1%  7 1. b1%?   1. bl%?   I6% 1-7  1 b1%?   1. 61%?1  1. bl% 
lable 01-ops                                                                         soI   to0 a    201 1    256 0    256 %            266 0    2 56 
OI,ie1. lo, 0.1                               206i S   256 0   286 0       Hi6 0   2054   2% 0i   200 %    290% 0            210% 0    21%i 0     MI% 0
l.bl. N,n                                     210 6   2106   210 6         Po  2106   210    6    21(0   202a    27J8    29409    204 1           114 
I.a,, .0%                                                                                     162 0     1750       756 0   1. 260 0   12600   126A00
IS,..                                         2b4                2644      26444 2644   24 4            2644       2644      2644      264 4      2644
Suli lolal Main P,o0.cI..n                     3.9164 I 3.6b011  3.0b4 I  30264  101.   3s      .59. IS1 107525S I Ib64  6 12 220  1 1122017 12,220?
Sal vaIw  Of Ikod.lI.d'                         3.1064     3.6b0 I J.9641 I  1.064 I S. 102S0  .0 g 3 I   10 1MI 5 II b0 6Jj   12. 220 I1 I. 220 1 12. 220 7
Opweal ing
sit10                                  2 4%     74%?I   24%?7    24%?  12014 1.23184   1.236 4   1. 2J34   1. )354   1215 4   1. 16 4
110111l 11111%                          is 4    10 4       is 4      10.4   213 I   200 0    200 0    20  S    201 S    200 %    20  S
CEtmecas i6)1 I                                  671     671 I       611 I    g0I    15% I0        S9        s        I 00 150  50  i6s" I I001
*CNIeArlIIeU                           15%h I   360j      35  a     360 I      .13610   142 3    174  3    142 3    742 3    147 3    142 3
uis.                                   154 6    16456   154 6        154 £   708I 3    12 7    612 1    512 7    612 1    Al? I    512 I
CNINI M I                               1011 I   00I1          I               "I       s I01  01I01  00  I0SO I0    to I                   0II3
N.Io,leis                               227  7   27        21 7      22?       227      22 7      2271       22?I       227       22?1      72 1
Mate, Charges Is                                                              J402    140 2      340 2      '492      4102       41102     360 2
WAS 1.1.1  Inpusul                      1.01%0 51.07I%  S 1.0SYS S  1.0O1% % 3.004    3. 60, 0  1601l 0  3. 61 5  3. lost0  360 0l I        2 lost 0
Mired Idmor
UnskI Illad                                                                I. 144 0 I. 10  0I 9   01 i0  I Pi1 0 I . 101   I . 10  I  1. 024111
So&   foist1 aeral.rog                      i 1.171%' I01   0 S1. 010    I01 Ol S4.AV? 7460S20   4.80209  4.5029  469020'  4.6001     S.I's
C111oll IOEH  5(Mt f IIOIISKUI                2.5S"6b2.624 2 26666   2.66664 4.605%8  0003   S.0940    6.602 1  1. 4116I  1. 411 01 704 0
Irainula, IromI'e,u    Period               1.07  0 SI. 010i S I 01% S  I.1 OM    4 61? I14 502 0  4.502 0  4.50I 0  4.60 1    4 502 0A  0. 170 i
less Irmsforr loSaNe.  beerd                1. 07%   101001070%i     4.60l1746020l 4BO?20   4.66207   4.80209  45020I  0j.10 I                 0I 1103 
0.6, Io.10  So,secoo  Uf I ..wr.w                                           I 622 2   1002                                                 312 4
MIII IIUSci5(                                                               I 6022 2   10%2                                               it? 4
IIIE  ISNhl? 85111-. A116  MOWINGI1            256 6db2 624 2 2 A110 6    Ili 7 4.040J 00    3   09400   650 92 1  1. 4 I?5   1. 040S4  ?.04044
Post..' P., #lw.Iy 0.7 .1 Il.Iou,r                    4      4 '3     0          1 4      4S 0                :I   0    b 0        1 4       1 0        1 0                                                                      o
/aloco.ery of M0I of ....a costs ooar 20 years M2o4 cnl.ss. p..S f.Il 0 & K 1110J ..onIo
Seplumioer 2J. 1058,1  17 lb



PORTUGAL
Tras-os-Kontes Regional Devel opment Pr: r-t
Economic Rate of Return - Mew Schemes High Valles Area dlineiha)
millions of Escudos
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9      10       11      12      13       14      153 6-30
farm Fatlu Met  enefits        1.0     1.0      1.0     3.2     4.8     9.5    14.5    19.9   22.3    24.0    24.8   25.1    25.3    25.4    25.4   '5.4
Cwital Cost of Schme          19.1    70.1    23.6        -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
Operating Cost of Schm           -       -        -     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2
let  enefits                 -18.2   -69.1   -22.6      2.0     3.6     8.3    13.3    18.7    21.1    22.8    23.6    23.9    24.1   -24.2    24.2    24.2
November 18. 1988 15:59
Internal Rates ot Return of Met Streas
N.IWAL                   12.70:
FRESENT YkLIES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOET RATE OF 13.51
11.1     U 101       U201        Lt 501    NWOM 101   D95'201         W0 50   LAG I YER LAG 2 YEAkS LAG 3 IEARS                                                                   a,
t.1                 -6.5          2.2        10.8         36.9       -15.2        -23.9       -4?.9        -16.8       -25.9        -33.9-
UF 107             -15.8         -7.2          1.5        27.5       -24.5        -33.2       -59.2        -26.2        -35.3       -43.3
UP 201             -25.2        -16.5        -7.8         18.2       -33.8        -42.5       -68.5        -35.5       -44.6        -52.6
UP 501             -53.2        -44.5       -35.8         -9.8       -61.8        -70.5       -96.5        -63.5        -72.6       -80.6
WA  101              2.8         11.5        20.2         46.2        -5.9        -14.5       -40.6         -7.5        -16.6       -24.6
DM  201             12.1         20.8        29.5         55.5         3.5         -5.2       -31.2          1.8        -7.3        -15.3
am1 507             40.1         48.8        57.5         83.5        31.4         22.8        -3.3         29.8         20.7        12.7
I6 I YEAR              -            -           -            -            -           -            -        -5.7       -14.8        -22.8
LAG 2 YERS                                                                                                     -         -5.1       -13.
LAiG 3 TES             --4.5
a- z
IIITERAL RATES OF RETLIRN OF NET STFIAIS                                                                                                                                    O 'I
8.1      UP 101 0     F 207       LF SO       O DMI        -         DOWI 50t LAG I YE  LAG 2YEARS  6A  3 YEARS 
t.l               32.696       13.759      14.                      11.566       i5.353        i.961      11.5.      10.576        9.785
U* 'O0            it.                      13.664       16.311      10.581   Y .408           5.141       10.625       9.769        9.052
UP 2'                 a8       11.759      12.696       15.250       9.710        b.572       4.409        9.825       9.049        8.395
UP 50             8.512        9.4Y0      10.353       12.696       7.5?0        '.528       2.593        7.863       7.271        6.766
bow  10%          13.873       14.982      16.033       18.938      12.696       11.435       6.d92       12.555      11.4;3       10.615
itS1 201          15.250       16.414      17.520       20.562      14.015       12.69t       ?.96?       13.748      12.550       11.567
NUN 502           21.502       22.944      24.320       28.140      19.982       18.369      12.696       19.028      17.149       15.656
tAG I YEAR             -            -           -            -           -            -            -      12.696      11.526       10.576
LAG 2  EARS            -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -      12.696       11.526
LAG 5 IEARS             -           -            -           -            -           -           -            -            -      12.696



MAP SECTION



MAP SECTION
la-.



IBRD 21268R
1 42-00                           $4 800'                            7-415                              7- 30                                                                 7-6' -0 6'b-i45                                      0-30 
iVO                                                                                                                                                                   'Vk                                                                  Vt                                            A.
/ /                                                        S             P           A              [,s*.                                                                                                                         ./N S---  W,¢..h.0 ,5,m;--<, 
N                                                                                    A                                                                                            T "
~fNEDA-OGE kL` 
'.NA TiONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
L.PA RKA          (                  oof...                                                      I                                                                                                                                                                                         
W                                                                                                                                       -do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-  N  k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4-4
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43
.4.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
''                         _        ~       ~        ~       ~               F  ro',  _                  =     X    e  j       T<                  ,          ;  j        a     _   , X       5            J            )    x                   >                           *  z j~~~~~~~~6.,  s V".h
{ L X1  / *  X                                                                /      {       I    'I /*
V0. P- .                                                                                                                                                            5,6.~~ o  og
l r a + t \s bt > & 4 tA *ndeg. de ;*/t < ° PORTUGAL
*                                       TRAS os MONTES
6                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL
-4"5,,                                                                                                            A", Xf                                                      __                                ,                                       DEVELOPMENT--
< g \ _ _ . > C                           Notlonal   Natural Parks                    Support Offices for
GAIl Headquarters                             Enterprise Development
/    ~~~~~~~~A Boundaries                               A   Researg Stations
National Highways
T,,b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Completed National Highways
'X)eDds  Lam>   S0Mo.            o   d       t ,>    |                          a VNo*dc gotCo( 4.            u.t0  )          sre flOd.  sDedeoc ,:                Protect Areo Boundary                  _ _  Planned Notional Higheays
- >$'3 < cc,raX,- J K  t                                                                             r                                        > ALdosChes Cowes  f >swe o r--.-c-Nsot / } Agrorrio dones  Other Rotds
4t _ = R D2,! 0 r@r.>.  T._.os e dvot Borroso /Aues e                                                                                                                                             oc                                              s     n Mee
Terras do Borso e Cima Corgo          -      Concelho Boundaries
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            /                                                                                                                Spo Elvtin  n AAeters
Cor,o,    9   dZ     /   {   bO /        \                .           Douro Supen!or                     --- District Boundcries
International Boundaries
;  /                    Se.nzncalce ^                           /    /                                                 9b                                                               0   Concelho Towns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  onehoTon
Kit.NcETERS                         15      2C                Dstrict Towns
*'. -  i....     .f@c  -         ..aa        -.                                                                                                                                                                      ILES
-t o _rS rJ ..  wo .. .,o Os .n,w,w r W a~ ce.aaa.,, ,*, ,_,                            .,j                                                                                                                              0                                        5     IE 
- *b 0. POP POrv e' PP 'CW.  0' .aW.o 0'  0st4o.a,
S.0r'                              74300..b                                                              7'5                                 7-00                       |       6-45                               6' 30
MARCH 198S



IBRD 2127'
PORTUGAL
---                                                                                                                        HiYDROGRAPHY OF NORTHERN PORTUGAL
__--_  ,_-~   "t                               *                                                                                                                  IRRIGATION W'ORKS, LAKES, AND DAMS
I J                               v                 p                     S    P    A                     I    N
/;                                                                                                               *i#WI%                            .r_, ,'
<_#        @ B * Ao d* Co.odo                 81 .S b$  :  
a ~ ~       ~          ~          ~         ~         ~                                                                       w
V                 e J6,  d8 f B         #          d de Ai-0,                                 "l e .ie Sc.J
SV,10-,n" dM F--     o       a d.r ooeo f 
_00A    CHAAVES
<LolonorBe                '   do ARp    - F                 C
Viono do Costel0 6
. d. Co.codo          e de Ve,do No.-     S * Lo-odo0,
-A5AVLA5                             B                                                                                                                       MA.  -  ^>CED  C  E   CAk4FALEIRCS
CABAdeLAS                                     -*                                                                                 C
A jW .' JSI,CUL     4A  AN)G   AF
8B do V'd.~  Bo R1.0' A_I.,.0,  -                                            ..
% ~         de O:o dZL-W  dzt                                                                                              J.a9d -       e4.R    ret          rA      E
A   A. d:I A>,.S
_  ~*'*                                                                                                     ,                      ALFANDEGA DA FE
7  |                                       8 *s c_ao e c                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 de V i. Re.  eo'to  S
loGo        B d,V,oRoc  -                    'A eA                   ' ' r                                \                                                    DAUEIRC
b  de 0/  t= do -._-ogdo -                                                      .1
I,-'                     lsrr~~~~1gated Are0s
B                        ~~~~~~~~~~Existing
Porto                                                                                                                     8                                                           /j                                      Under Construction
-                                                              C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Potential
*.d                                                                                            B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d. Reg,a                                                                                          Proposed Scnemes
dO  B Varosp -                                                                               /                                   *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Relhab. tted SChemes
--a    '    z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H   -     -yd'oe ectr  Dam  01  es'," 
cf  -de   .or                                                                                                                                                                                            SlK  ter MMrs hes
0                                                                                                                   .3000  R. ers                                                                                                                                4
.n     I solhyets in mm
'sbon       Q 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Internationul1 Boundaries
S               .          C        ~~ ~ ~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~2C  32  I
r   600                                                                                                 1
DECEmBER 1988



