Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3035 PO
           (Tras-os-Montes Regional Development Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 30, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3035 PO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  30,   1989,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
PORTUGAL (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by Instituto
Financeiro de Apoio  ao  Desenvolvimento  da  Agricultura e Pescas
(IFADAP), and the Borrower will make available to IFADAP a part of
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and IFADAP of even date herewith,  as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "IFADAP Agency  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered  into  between  the   Borrower   and  IFADAP  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (d) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
IFADAP Agency Agreement;
     (c)  "MAPA"  means  Ministerio   da   Agricultura,  Pescas  e
AlimentacUo, the Ministry of  Agriculture,  Fisheries and Food, of
the Borrower;
     (d)  "EEC" means the European Economic Community;
     (e)  "PBI"  means  a   banking  institution  established  and
operating  under  the  laws   of   the  Borrower  referred  to  in
Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "PBI Loan Agreement" means  the  agreement to be entered
into by IFADAP, as agent of  the  Borrower, and a PBI, pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of  the  Project  Agreement,  as  the same may be
amended from time to time with  the  approval of the Bank, for the
purposes of relending to such PBI a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan;
     (g)  "CCAM"  means  Caixa  de   Credito  Agricola  Mutuo,  an
agricultural credit  cooperative  established  and operating under
the laws of the Borrower  referred  to  in Section 2.02 (a) of the
Project Agreement;
     (h)  "CCAM Loan Agreement" means  the agreement to be entered
into by IFADAP, as agent of  the Borrower, and a CCAM, pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of  the  Project  Agreement,  as  the same may be
amended from time to time with  the  approval of the Bank, for the
purposes of relending to such  CCAM  a  portion of the proceeds of
the Loan;
     (i)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
PBI or a CCAM to a  Sub-borrower  for an Investment Project out of
the proceeds of the Loan;
     (j)  "Sub-borrower"  means  a  farmer,  farmers  association,
agricultural cooperative or other investor;
     (k)  "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by  a  Sub-borrower, utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;
     (l)  "Project Area" means  the  area comprising the following
municipalities: Chaves, Montalegre,  Boticas, Valpacos, Vila Pouca
de Aguiar, Braganca, Miranda do Douro, Vimioso, Vinhais, Alfandega
da Fe, Carrazeda de Ansiaes, Mirandela, Macedo de Cavaleiros, Vila
Flor, Vila Real, Alijo, Sabrosa,  Murca, Santa Marta de PenaguiUo,
Page  3
MesUo Frio, Peso da Regua, Lamego, SUo JoUo da Pesqueira, Tabuaco,
Moimenta da Beira,  Resende,  CinfUes, Armamar, Tarouca, Penedono,
Sernancelhe,  Freixo  de  Espada  a  Cinta,  Mogadouro,  Torre  de
Moncorvo, Vila Nova de Foz Coa, Ribeira de Pena and Meda;
     (m)  "CCRN" means ComissUo de CoordenacUo da RegiUo do Norte,
the Coordinating Commission of the Northern Region, established by
Decree Law No. 494/79 of the Borrower, dated December 21, 1979, as
amended from time to time;
     (n)  "DRATM"  means  DireccUo   Regional  de  Agricultura  de
Tras-os-Montes,  the  Regional  Directorate  of  Agriculture  for
Tras-os-Montes of MAPA, established by  Decree  Law  No. 221/77 of
the Borrower, dated May 28, 1977, as amended from time to time;
     (o)  "FENACAM" means FederacUo Nacional das Caixas de Credito
Agricola   Mutuo,   the    Federation   of   Agricultural   Saving
Cooperatives, established by Decree Law No. 69/81 of the Borrower,
dated April 7, 1981;
     (p)  "GAEs"  means  Gabinetes   de   Apoio  Empresarial,  the
Entrepreneurial Support Cabinets,  established  by legal agreement
between CCRN and Portuguese industrial associations;
     (q)  "GATs" means Gabinetes de Apoio Tecnico, the Cabinets of
Technical Assistance, established by  Decree  Law No. 58/79 of the
Borrower, dated March 29, 1979;
     (r)  "IDARN"  means  Instituto   para  o  Desenvolvimento  da
Agricultura da RegiUo do Norte,  the Institute for the Development
of  Agriculture  in  the  Northern  Region,  established  by legal
agreement dated July 28, 1987;
     (s)  "Municipalities" means any of  the municipalities in the
Project Area, established  and  operating  under  the  laws of the
Borrower, listed in paragraph (l) of this Section;
     (t)  "SNPRCN" means Servico  Nacional  de Parques, Reservas e
ConservacUo da Natureza, the  National  Service of Parks, Reserves
and Conservation of Nature,  established  by Decree Law No. 130/86
of the Borrower, dated June 7, 1986;
     (u)  "Statutes of IFADAP" means  Decree-Law No. 344/77 of the
Borrower, dated August 19,  1977,  as  ratified  by Law No. 14/78,
dated March 23, 1978, as amended from time to time;
     (v)  "DAA" means Departamento  de Acompanhamento e AvaliacUo,
the  Department  of  Monitoring  and  Evaluation,  established  by
Decree-Law No. 130/86 of the Borrower, dated June 7, 1986;
     (w)  "DGHEA" means DireccUo Geral  de Hidraulica e Engenharia
Agricola,  the  General   Directorate   of  Hydraulics  and  Rural
Engineering, established by Decree-Law No. 221/77 of the Borrower,
dated May 28, 1977;
     (x)  "reference rate" means the prevailing rediscount rate of
the Banco do Portugal, plus a  spread  of 3.5%, as may be adjusted
from time to time;
     (y)  "relending rate" means the rate of interest per annum on
the outstanding  principal  amount  of  each  Sub-loan, which rate
shall be the reference rate less 2%;
     (z)  "positive in real terms" means higher than the inflation
rate as  measured  by  the  Consumer  Price  Index  published on a
quarterly basis  by  the  Instituto  Nacional  de Estatistica, the
National Department of Statistics of the Borrower;
     (aa) "agricultural parts of  the  Project"  means Parts A, B,
C (1) (a) and C (3), D, E, F  (1)  (a), F (2) and G (1) and (2) of
the Project;
Page  4
     (bb) "non-agricultural  parts  of  the  Project"  means Parts
C (1) (b) and (c), C  (2),  F  (1)  (b)  and  (c) and G (3) of the
Project;
     (cc) "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (dd) "Escudo" or "Esc." means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall  have  an aggregate value equivalent
to the amount of  ninety  million dollars ($90,000,000), being the
sum  of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in a financial
institution on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Page  5
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the Project with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the  Borrower  shall:  (i) establish and operate,
with duly  qualified  and  experienced  staff,  the organizational
structure for the Project in accordance with Parts I and II of the
Implementation Program set forth in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and (ii) carry out  or  cause  to  be  carried  out the Project in
accordance with Part III  of  the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation or restriction  upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause IFADAP
to perform  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Project
Agreement all the obligations  of  IFADAP therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken  all action, including the provisions of
funds, facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary or
appropriate to  enable  IFADAP  to  perform  such obligations, and
shall not take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  make  available  to IFADAP an amount
equivalent to $35,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan under an
agency agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower and
IFADAP, under terms and  conditions  which  shall have been agreed
with the Bank, and which shall provide, inter alia, that:
          (i)  IFADAP relend such  amount  to  the CCAMs and PBIs,
               for the purposes of  Part  B  of the Project, under
               CCAM Loan Agreements and PBI Loan Agreements;
         (ii)  IFADAP  receive  a  fee  of  1%  per  annum  on the
               outstanding principal amount of the Sub-loans; and
        (iii)  the foreign exchange  risk  on  the proceeds of the
               Loan so relent be borne by the Borrower.
     (e)  The Borrower and the  Bank  shall review, not later than
June 30 of each year, the  relending rate, fee and spread referred
to in paragraph (d) above,  Section  2.02 of the Project Agreement
and Paragraph B.1 (b)  of  the  Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and the Borrower  shall  adjust  such  relending  rate in a manner
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  as  necessary  to  ensure  that  such
relending rate continues to be positive in real terms.
     (f)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the IFADAP
Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to  accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate  or  waive the IFADAP Agency Agreement
or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  shall employ duly qualified
and experienced staff  in  adequate  numbers  in accordance with a
schedule  satisfactory  to  the  Bank   in  order  to  ensure  the
Page  6
availability in a timely manner  of sufficient extension staff for
DRATM and to strengthen the CCAMs.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, not  later  than September 30, 1989,
prepare  a  detailed  first-year  training  program  for extension
staff.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989, enter  into  a  contract  with  a  Portuguese  university or
technical  institution  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  carry out
Project evaluation, on terms and conditions determined by DAA with
CCRN  and  DRATM,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  terms  and
conditions  shall  include,  inter  alia,  the  establishment  and
maintenance, with duly qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers, of a Project Evaluation Unit (PEU) whose responsibilities
shall  include  Project   evaluation   and   the  preparation  and
submission to the Bank  of  the Project completion report pursuant
to Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause DRATM, with  the  support  of  IDARN  or DGHEA, as
appropriate,  not  later  than   December  31,  1989,  to  develop
priorities for applied  research  activities  under  Part D of the
Project and the studies under  Part  G  (1) and (2) of the Project
and to  designate  the  institutions  to  carry  out  such applied
research activities and studies;
     (b)  cause CCRN, not later than December 31, 1989, to develop
priorities for the studies under Part  G (3) of the Project and to
designate the institutions to carry out such studies; and
     (c)  review with the Bank,  not  later  than  June 30 of each
year, the progress of the applied research activities under Part D
of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall  review  with the Bank, not
later than June 30 of each  year, the performance of the extension
services of DRATM under Part E of the Project.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that:
     (a)  water charges on  the  services  provided  under the new
irrigation works under Part A  (2) of the Project, reflecting cash
flow conditions of  the  beneficiaries  be  adopted, which charges
shall be determined in  accordance with the Borrower's Ministerial
Order No. 817/88 of December 26, 1988, with respect to recovery of
investment costs  of  such  irrigation  works,  and the Borrower's
Decree Law No. 269/82 of  July  10, 1982, with respect to recovery
of operational and maintenance costs of such irrigation works; and
     (b)  water and sewerage  tariffs  and  electricity tariffs on
the services provided under  Part  C  (2)  and  (3) of the Project
shall be determined in  accordance  with the Borrower's Decree Law
No. 100/84 of  July  29,  1984,  and  Decree  Law  No. 344-A/82 of
September 1, 1982.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through DRATM:
     (a)  ensure  that,  prior  to  the  construction  of  any new
irrigation scheme under Part  A  (2)  of  the Project, a new water
users association be formed  and  function  in accordance with the
Borrower's Decree Law No. 269/82,  of July 10, 1982, including the
provision  of  such  Decree   Law   that   at  least  50%  of  the
beneficiaries of irrigable areas agree: (i) to the construction of
any such new irrigation  scheme;  and  (ii) to take responsibility
for the  operation  and  maintenance  of  any  such new irrigation
scheme; and
     (b)  adopt criteria, satisfactory to  the  Bank, for each new
irrigation scheme  to  be  constructed  under  Part  A  (2) of the
Project requiring that: (i)  each  such  scheme  of 200 ha or more
Page  7
have an economic rate  of  return  of  at  least 12% calculated in
accordance with methodology  satisfactory  to  the Bank; (ii) each
such scheme covering less than  200 ha have total investment costs
of not more than $13,000  per  ha;  and (iii) each dam constructed
under the Project in conjunction  with  a new irrigation scheme be
constructed  and  operated  in  accordance  with  the  dam  safety
regulations set forth in  the  Borrower's  Decree Law No. 48373 of
May 8, 1968, as amended from time to time.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower  shall  carry  out, not later than
December 31, 1990, a  study  on  the methods for strengthening the
CCAM system in accordance with  terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall  ensure, through CCRN, that
the Project is carried out, with staff adequately trained for this
purpose, in accordance with  the  safety, health and environmental
regulations of the Borrower and the EEC.
     Section 3.10.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Borrower's Special Account for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
Page  8
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  IFADAP  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  covenant,
agreement or obligation of IFADAP under the Project Agreement;
     (b)  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it  improbable  that  IFADAP  will  be  able  to  perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (c)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment  of  IFADAP   or   for   the  suspension  of  its
operations;
     (d)  the  Statutes  of   IFADAP   shall  have  been  amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed  or  waived  in  such  a  way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of IFADAP to carry out
the covenants, agreements and  obligations  of IFADAP set forth in
the Project Agreement; and
     (e)  the Borrower's Ministerial Order  No. 817/88, Decree Law
No. 269/82, Decree  Law  No.  100/84,  Decree  Law No. 344-A/82 or
Decree  Law  No.  48373   shall   have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in  such  a way as to materially and
adversely affect the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to carry out the
obligations of the Borrower set forth  in Sections 3.06 or 3.07 of
this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur  and  shall continue for a period of
30 days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in  paragraphs  (b), (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the IFADAP Agency Agreement  has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and IFADAP;
     (b)  not less than one CCAM  Loan  Agreement and one PBI Loan
Agreement shall have  been  executed  on  behalf of the respective
CCAM and PBI;
     (c)  a protocolo between  the  Borrower  and FENACAM has been
Page  9
issued  providing  for   the   transfer   to   the  CCAMs  of  the
administrative duties of not  less  than 56 DRATM extensionists to
enable such DRATM  extensionists  to  restrict their activities to
extension services;
     (d)  a protocolo between  the  Borrower  and  the seed potato
union has been issued  providing  for  the  secondment of not less
than three DRATM extensionists to such seed potato union;
     (e)  a  protocolo  between   the   Borrower   and  the  dairy
cooperative union (Lactimontes) has  been issued providing for the
secondment of not  less  than  three  DRATM  extensionists to such
dairy cooperative union; and
     (f)  two  civil  engineers   have   been   appointed  to  the
supervisory irrigation unit of DRATM.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified  by  IFADAP  and  is   legally  binding  upon  IFADAP  in
accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  IFADAP   Agency   Agreement   has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower  and IFADAP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and IFADAP in accordance with its terms;
and
     (c)  that not less than one  CCAM  Loan Agreement and one PBI
Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by IFADAP and
a CCAM and PBI, respectively,  and are legally binding upon IFADAP
and the CCAM and PBI in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio das Financas
          Avenida Infante D. Henrique
          1100 Lisboa
          Portugal
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               DIRECCÚO-GERAL DO                12 764 TRESOR P
               TESOURO, LISBOA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
Page  10
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                   By /s/ J. E. Pereira Bastos
                                       Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Philippe Nouvel
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and        14,000,000         20%
     related equip-
     ment for Part A
     of the Project
(2)  Sub-loans under        35,000,000         90% of amounts
     Part B of the                             disbursed under
     Project:                                  Sub-loans
(3)  Civil works and        30,000,000         25%
     goods for Part C
     of the Project
(4)  Equipment, mate-        6,000,000         80%
     rials and vehicles
     for Parts D, E
     and F of the
     Project
(5)  Consultants' ser-       2,000,000         80%
     vices, training
     and studies
(6)  Unallocated             3,000,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  90,000,000
Page  11
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (i) transform the
productive structure  of  the  Project  Area  by  promoting a more
efficient agricultural sector;  (ii) promote value-added formation
and private investment in agroindustries to improve processing and
marketing facilities  and  to  strengthen  entrepreneurial skills;
(iii)  reduce  regional  imbalances  in  employment  levels;  (iv)
achieve steady  economic  growth  and  ecological  balance  in the
Project Area; (v) increase incomes of farm families in the Project
Area; (vi) strengthen  the  regional institutions participating in
the Project; and  (vii)  improve  the  standard  of  living of the
population in  the  Project  Area  through  construction  of basic
infrastructure.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Development
(1)  Rehabilitation of about 220 irrigation schemes in the Project
Area, including repair  or  reconstruction  of diversion weirs and
construction of  small  concrete  canals,  structures and offtakes
equipped with steel sliding  gates,  to  irrigate an area of about
11,000 ha.
(2)  Construction of new irrigation schemes as follows:
     (a)  rehabilitation of  the  existing  canal  network  in the
Chaves Valley Perimeter serving  about  920  ha and development of
new blocks serving about 1,360 ha;
     (b)  construction  of  about  14  irrigation  schemes serving
about 3,000 ha; and
     (c)  construction of two  multi-purpose schemes serving about
2,000 ha.
Part B:   Credit
(1)  Vineyard Restructuring
     Provision of credit  to  farmers  and farmers associations to
finance  land  clearing   and   preparation,  erecting  trellises,
fertilizer, vine seedlings and  grafting and various operations in
the vineyards (including  cultivation,  weeding,  pruning and pest
control).
(2)  Agroindustry
     Provision of credit  to  agricultural  cooperatives and other
investors  to  finance   the   modernization  and  development  of
agroindustry and agricultural marketing  structures in the Project
Area  through  rehabilitation,   modernization  and  expansion  of
existing agroprocessing industries  (wine,  meat, olive oil, fruit
and vegetable processing, dairy  and  new products), including the
provision of equipment for  quality improvement, modern packaging,
additional processing  lines,  bottling  lines,  deep freezing and
cold storage, and processing of by-products.
Part C:   Rural Infrastructure
(1)  Road construction and rehabilitation
Page  12
     (a)  Construction or rehabilitation of  about 690 km of rural
and feeder roads.
     (b)  Construction  or  rehabilitation  of  about  380  km  of
municipal roads.
     (c)  Construction of village streets covering a total area of
about 450,000 m2 in about 100 villages.
(2)  Water supply and sewage system
     Construction of about  150  schemes  for potable water supply
and about 50 schemes for sewage  disposal to serve a population of
about 72,000.
(3)  Rural electrification
     Construction of about 660  electrification schemes to connect
isolated farmers to the national grid.
(4)  Conservation and Development of National and Natural Parks
     Conservation and development activities  in the national park
of Peneda-Geres, the natural  park  of  Montesinho and the natural
park of Alvao,  including  agricultural activities, development of
infrastructure, identification of  alternative  energy sources and
nature conservation activities.
Part D:   Applied Research Activities
     Carrying out of farming  system  research and on-farm trials,
including  research  on:  (1)  cropping  patterns  and  production
systems  centered  around  potatoes,  cereals  and  livestock; (2)
improved forage production  and  conservation;  (3) improved water
use of irrigated areas; (4)  variety  testing of improved wine and
table grapes, fruit trees,  nuts,  dry  fruits and vegetables; and
(5) potential new crops.
Part E:   Extension Activities
(1)  Reorganization  and  strengthening  of  DRATM  and supporting
directorates, including: (a)  recruitment  of  about  33 new field
staff and about 10  extension  coordinators; and (b) establishment
of a regional documentation and information unit with the addition
of three communication specialists.
(2)  Training  of  technical  staff,  extension  staff, extension-
coordination and other specialized staff and farm groups.
Part F:   Institutional Strengthening
(1)  Regional Project Management
     (a)  DRATM:  (i)  the   establishment   and  staffing  of  an
irrigation unit and construction  and  equipping of three training
centers, local  DRATM  offices  and  houses  for  extension staff;
(ii) strengthening of the planning  unit with the addition of four
agronomists and one agricultural economist; (iii) strengthening of
the cooperative services through the provision of additional staff
and a  staff  training  program;  and  (iv)  strengthening  of the
research and production support services.
     (b)  CCRN: strengthening  of  the  central  services  and the
technical  support  offices   (GATs)   through  the  provision  of
additional staff, technical assistance and equipment.
     (c)  GAEs:  strengthening  of  the  offices  for  enterprises
development  through  the   provision   of  additional  staff  and
technical assistance.
(2)  Agricultural Cooperative Credit System
Page  13
     (a)  Carrying out of a study on methods for strengthening the
role of the CCAM credit  system  in financing the restructuring of
the agricultural sector.
     (b)  Strengthening of the technical capacity of the CCAMs and
improving  the  preparation   by   farmers   and  cooperatives  of
investment  proposals  through  the  provision  of  equipment  and
vehicles to  the  regional  offices  of  FENACAM  and the regional
CCAMs, the introduction of a  training  program in FENACAM for the
personnel of  the  regional  CCAMs  and  the  establishment in the
Project Area  of  a  team  of  specialists  to  assist farmers and
cooperatives in the preparation of Investment Projects.
Part G:   Studies
(1)  Carrying out  of  irrigation  studies,  including feasibility
studies and detailed  designs  for  new  irrigation  schemes to be
constructed under the Project,  and monitoring research studies on
design criteria of  some  irrigation  schemes, crop water require-
ments and water use efficiency.
(2)  Carrying out  of  agricultural  studies  to  improve cropping
patterns and production systems.
(3)  Carrying out  of  studies  on  such  subjects as aquaculture,
natural resources, preserving the  quality  of the environment and
maintenance of national and natural parks.
                         *    *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning July 15, 1994
     through January 15, 2004                  4,500,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment,    multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
Page  14
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Portugal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for Part A  (1)  of the Project estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $120,000 per contract, civil works and
related equipment for Part A (2)  of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent  of  $1,500,000  or  less  per  contract  up  to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000, civil
works for Part C (1) (a) and  (4) of the Project estimated to cost
less than  the  equivalent  of  $120,000  per  contract  up  to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $7,000,000, and
civil works for  Part  C  (1)  (b)  and  (c),  (2)  and (3) of the
Project, may be procured under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Civil works for Part B (1)  of the Project, and equipment for
Part B (2) of the  Project  estimated  to  cost up to an aggregate
amount  not  to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $11,000,000,  may be
procured in accordance with established commercial channels.
3.   Computer, office and  other  training  and research equipment
may  be   procured   under   contracts   awarded  through  limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines   and   in  accordance  with  the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
4.   Civil works for Part A  (1)  of the Project estimated to cost
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  the  equivalent of
$1,400,000 and civil works for  Part  C  (1)  (a) and C (4) of the
Project estimated to cost up to  an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $7,000,000, may  be carried out by force account
with the prior approval of the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  15
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and to each contract
for goods estimated to  cost  the  equivalent of $500,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where  payments for such contract are
to be made out of  the  Special  Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ irrigation consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis ofthe "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
I.   Entities responsible for Project Implementation:
     Part of
     Project      Component                         Entity
     Part A       Irrigation                        DRATM/DGHEA
     Part B       Credit                            IFADAP
                    Vineyard development
                    Agroindustries
     Part C       Rural infrastructure
                    Roads
                      (1)  rural and field roads    DRATM
                      (2)  municipal roads          CCRN
                    Water supply and sewerage       CCRN
                    Rural electrification           DRATM
                    Conservation activities         CCRN, SNPRCN
     Part D       Applied research                  DRATM, IDARN
     Part E       Extension                         DRATM
Page  16
     Part F       Institutional                     CCRN, DRATM,
                    strengthening                   FENACAM
     Part G       Studies
                    (1)  Irrigation studies         DRATM, DGHEA
                    (2)  Agricultural studies       DRATM, IDARN
                    (3)  Other studies              CCRN
II.  Organization and Management of Project Implementation
A.   Overall planning and coordination of the Project shall be the
responsibility of CCRN,  supported  by  DRATM for the agricultural
parts of the Project. The  president  of CCRN shall be the Project
Coordinator (PC) and the  Director  of  DRATM  shall be the Deputy
Project Coordinator.
B.   (1)  The Project Administration  Unit  (PAU)  located in CCRN
shall coordinate  day-to-day  Project  activities.  The  PAU shall
consist of the administrator,  who  shall  also be responsible for
the non-agricultural parts of  the  Project,  the director for the
agricultural parts of the Project, and four technical officers.
     (2)  The PAU shall  primarily  be responsible for supervising
and monitoring the  execution  of  the  Project.  The PAU shall be
responsible for ensuring that  accounting  and auditing of Project
activities and Project progress reporting are properly carried out
and  shall  liaise  with  the  agencies  responsible  for  Project
planning,  progress  reporting  and  evaluation  to  ensure timely
execution of the  Project  and  preparation  of Project evaluation
reports.
     (3)  The PAU shall be responsible for:
          (a)  receiving  and   reviewing   annual  work  programs
               submitted for approval  by the agencies responsible
               for Project implementation;
          (b)  establishing    annual    Project    implementation
               programs,   including   time   schedules,   costing
               requirements and manpower requirements;
          (c)  reviewing each of the  Project components to ensure
               that  they  are  carried  out  in  accordance  with
               environmental  guidelines   of   the  Borrower,  as
               appropriate;
          (d)  maintaining accounts for all activities carried out
               under the Project and  making them available to the
               auditors and the Bank on request; and
          (e)  preparing  semi-annual  progress  reports  based on
               information provided  by  the  Project implementing
               agencies.
C.   A  Project  Director   of   Agricultural  Services  shall  be
appointed to assist the  Director  of DRATM in supervising day-to-
day activities for the agricultural parts of the Project.
D.   A National Coordination  Council  composed  of the Borrower's
Ministry  of  Finance,   Ministry   of  Planning  and  Territorial
Administration, and MAPA shall  be  responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of overall Project performance and to ensure support at
the  national  level.   The   PC   shall   convene  such  National
Coordination Council, and chair its  meetings, at least once every
twelve months.
E.   The  existing  Agrarian  Regional  Council  (ARC)  of  DRATM,
established by the Borrower's  Decree  Law  No. 190/86 of July 16,
1986,   shall   ensure   the   necessary   regional  institutional
participation and coordination in the  Project Area with regard to
the agricultural parts of  the  Project.  The  ARC, chaired by the
Director of DRATM, shall  include  local representatives of public
Page  17
and private agencies  involved  in Project implementation (IFADAP,
FENACAM, cooperatives,  farmers  associations  and universities in
the Project Area). The  ARC  shall  meet  at least three times per
year to: (1)  review  the  status  of  Project implementation; (2)
provide  advice   on   financial,   administrative  and  technical
problems; and (3) assist in planning and monitoring activities.
F.   The Project Evaluation Unit (PEU) shall be responsible to the
PC for Project evaluation in  accordance with Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
III. Implementation of Project Components
A.   Irrigation Development
(1)  DRATM  shall  carry   out   Part   A   (1)   of  the  Project
(rehabilitation  of  irrigation  schemes)  through  its  Soils and
Agricultural Engineering Division  (SAED),  with the assistance of
hired labor and local farmers.
(2)  DRATM shall carry out Part A (2) of the Project (construction
of new irrigation schemes)  through  its Irrigation Unit (IU) with
SAED. The IU shall supervise Part  A  (2) of the Project and shall
be responsible for:
     (a)  administering,    contracting    and    monitoring   the
preparation of irrigation engineering and feasibility studies;
     (b)     contracting   of   construction   works   and   field
supervision;
     (c)  organizing and monitoring of operational and maintenance
activities;
     (d)  coordinating with other  DRATM divisions responsible for
Project  activities,  such   as   administration  of  water  users
associations and the extension services; and
     (e)  assessing the economic viability  of each new irrigation
scheme to be  carried  out  under  Part  A  (2)  of the Project in
accordance with Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement.
     The  IU  shall  oversee  the  formation  of  new  water users
associations  under  the  new  irrigation  schemes.  The  IU shall
coordinate with DRATM's Planning Office  and shall be staffed with
a unit chief, two civil  engineers, one agricultural engineer, one
agronomist and four to six technical assistants.
B.   Credit
     IFADAP shall carry out Part B of the Project (credit) through
CCAMs and PBIs in accordance with  the terms and conditions of the
Project Agreement.
C.   Rural Infrastructure
(1)  DRATM shall carry out Part  C  (1)  (a) of the Project (rural
and  feeder  roads)   and   shall   be   responsible  for  design,
construction  works  and  maintenance,  with  technical assistance
provided by GATs, as necessary.
(2)  DRATM shall carry out Part C  (3) of the Project (rural elec-
trification) with the Electricity  Power  Authority (EDP) which is
responsible for the  design  and  construction  of the rural elec-
trification works.
(3)  CCRN shall carry  out,  in  coordination with the Municipali-
ties, Part C (1) (b) and (c) of the Project (construction of muni-
cipal roads and village  streets)  and  Part  C (2) of the Project
(water supply and sewage system).
D.   Applied Research Activities
Page  18
     DRATM, with the scientific and technical support of IDARN and
various research and training institutions, shall carry out Part D
of the Project  (applied  research  activies).  DRATM, assisted by
IDARN, shall  develop  research  priorities  for applied research,
prepare research proposals,  review  research  offers from various
national and international institutions,  and contract and monitor
research activities. DRATM shall carry out applied research at the
six  experimental  stations   operated   by  the  Directorate  for
Livestock and Crop Development  (DEPAP)  which would be related to
extension services through the subject matter specialists.
E.   Extension Activities
     DRATM shall  carry  out  Part  E  of  the  Project (extension
activities) through the Extension  Planning Unit (EPU) which shall
prepare an annual extension program.
     Regional Level
(1)  The EPU shall:
     (a)  formulate  a  regional  extension  program incorporating
directives of the EEC and the Borrower;
     (b)  monitor the implementation of  the  regional plan in the
field;
     (c)  outline strategies for research in the major sectors and
sub-sectors and assist in selection of research institutions based
on requirements identified by extension staff; and
     (d)  assess extension training requirements.
(2)  DRATM  shall  collect  and  provide  to  extension  staff the
technical and economic information  materials to be distributed to
farmers.
(3)  The EPU shall ensure  that  the field agronomists and subject
matter specialists operating  within DRATM's experimental stations
provide the results  of  applied  research activities to extension
staff.
(4)  DRATM's vocational training division  shall prepare and carry
out training and retraining of extension staff.
     Agrarian Zone Level
(1)  The Agrarian Zone Extension Coordinators shall:
     (a)  establish a program of action with EPU;
     (b)  coordinate the program of individual extension staff;
     (c)  liaise with research institutions  and other agencies as
relevant for technical inputs and general information; and
     (d)  select staff and assist  in  farm selection for training
activities.
(2)  Two  cooperatives  unions   (seed   potato  union  and  dairy
cooperative union) shall set  up  pilot extension schemes with six
extension staff seconded by DRATM  or employed by such cooperative
unions who shall work in collaboration with DRATM extension staff.
F.   Institutional Development
(1)  DRATM  shall  carry  out  Part  F  (1)  (a)  of  the  Project
(strengthening of DRATM).
(2)  CCRN  shall  carry  out  Part   F  (1)  (b)  of  the  Project
(strengthening  of  GATs)  and  Part  F  (1)  (c)  of  the Project
Page  19
(strengthening of GAEs).
(3)  CCRN and FENACAM shall carry  out  Part  F (2) of the Project
(strengthening of the regional CCAMs).
G.   Studies
     DRATM and DGHEA shall  carry  out  Part  G (1) of the Project
(irrigation studies), DRATM and IDARN  shall  carry out Part G (2)
of the Project  (agricultural  studies)  and  CCRN shall carry out
Part G (3) of the Project (other studies).
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
Page  20
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,   withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such procedures as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
