Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3035 PO
           (Tras-os-Montes Regional Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 INSTITUTO FINANCEIRO DE APOIO AO
              DESENVOLVIMENTO DA AGRICULTURA E PESCAS
                       Dated August 30, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3035 PO
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  30,  1989, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and INSTITUTO
FINANCEIRO DE APOIO  AO  DESENVOLVIMENTO  DA  AGRICULTURA E PESCAS
(IFADAP).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Republic of Portugal (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety million  dollars  ($90,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that IFADAP agree  to  undertake  such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by an agency agreement  to  be  entered into between the
Borrower and IFADAP, a part  of  the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to IFADAP for
relending to CCAMs and PBIs on  the terms and conditions set forth
in said IFADAP Agency Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS, in consideration  of  the  Bank's  entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General  Conditions  (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part B of the Project;
                Management and Operations of IFADAP
     Section 2.01. IFADAP  declares  its  commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry  out Part B of the Project and
conduct its  operations  and  affairs,  in  accordance  with sound
financial standards and practices,  with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with its Statutes.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  CCAMs  selected  to participate in the
Project and PBIs shall be  banking institutions with sound manage-
ment, financial and Project implementation capability.
     (b)  IFADAP shall relend to  the  CCAMs and PBIs the proceeds
of the Loan made  available  to  IFADAP  by the Borrower under the
IFADAP Agency Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part B of
the Project under CCAM Loan  Agreements and PBI Loan Agreements to
be entered into between  IFADAP  and  the  CCAMs and PBIs, respec-
tively, on terms and conditions  which shall have been agreed with
the Bank, including, inter alia, that:
          (i)  the CCAM  or  PBI  be  permitted  to refinance from
               IFADAP any Sub-loan  made  by  it  for the purposes
               specified in Part B of the Project;
         (ii)  when submitting a Sub-loan for refinancing, the PBI
               or CCAM notify IFADAP of the portion (not exceeding
               90%)  of  the  Sub-loan  for  which  refinancing by
               IFADAP is requested and  of  the estimated dates on
               which  disbursements  of   the   Sub-loan  will  be
               required and their respective amounts;
        (iii)  the CCAMs and PBIs pay IFADAP interest per annum on
               the outstanding principal  amount  of each Sub-loan
               at the relending rate, minus a spread of 1.5%;
         (iv)  the amortization  period  of  such  relending under
               Part B (1) of  the Project (vineyard restructuring)
               not exceed 15 years, including  a grace period of 6
               years, and the amortization  period of such relend-
               ing under Part B  (2) of the Project (agroindustry)
               not exceed 9 years,  including  a grace period of 4
               years; and
          (v)  the CCAMs and PBIs:
               (A)  maintain separate accounts  for the Sub-loans,
                    and  in  the  case  of  the  CCAMs,  have such
                    accounts  for  each  fiscal  year  audited  by
                    FENACAM,   in   accordance   with  appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, and
               (B)  make  available  to  the  Bank  such  other
                    information concerning  said  accounts as well
Page  3
                    as the audit  thereof  as  the Bank shall from
                    time to time reasonably request.
     Section 2.03. (a)  IFADAP  undertakes  that,  unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans  will  be made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  IFADAP shall exercise  its  rights  in  relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank, the Borrower and IFADAP; (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement  and  the  IFADAP Agency Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04. IFADAP shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the  IFADAP  Agency  Agreement.  Except  as  the  Bank shall
otherwise agree, IFADAP shall  not  take  or  concur in any action
which would have the effect  of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the IFADAP Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) IFADAP shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and under the IFADAP Agency Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  IFADAP shall promptly inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part B of the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by  IFADAP  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the IFADAP Agency Agreement.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  IFADAP  shall  maintain  procedures  and
records adequate to monitor and  record  the progress of Part B of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived  from  it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of IFADAP.
     (b)  IFADAP shall:
          (i)  have its  records,  accounts  and  financial state-
               ments, including separate accounts for the loans to
               the CCAMs and  PBIs  (balance sheets, statements of
               income and  expenses  and  related  statements) for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited; and
               (B) the report of  such  audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Bank and of IFADAP  thereunder  shall  terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on   which   the  Loan  Agreement  shall
               terminate; or
         (ii)  a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Loan Agreement  terminates before the date speci-
fied in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of  this  Section,  the  Bank shall
promptly notify IFADAP of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For IFADAP:
           Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao
             Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas
           Rua Dona Estefania, 71/77
           1100 Lisbon
           Portugal
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                IFADAP                        13022 IFADAP P
                Lisbon
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of IFADAP, may be taken or executed jointly by
any two members  of  IFADAP's  Managing  Board,  or  by such other
person or persons as  IFADAP's  Managing  Board shall designate in
writing, and IFADAP shall furnish  to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the  authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
Page  5
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Philippe Nouvel
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                        INSTITUTO FINANCEIRO DE APOIO AO
                           DESENVOLVIMENTO DA AGRICULTURA E PESCA
                        By /s/ J. E. Pereira Bastos
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Lending Procedures and Terms and
                      Conditions of Sub-loans
A.   Lending Procedures - Appraisal and Eligibility
1.   Each Sub-borrower shall prepare,  with  the assistance of the
DRATM extension service, the CCAMs,  the  PBIs or the GAEs, a Sub-
loan application. IFADAP shall be responsible for approval of each
Sub-loan application, including  evaluation  of the Sub-borrower's
creditworthiness.
2.   The CCAMs and  PBIs  shall  be  responsible  for appraisal of
Investment Projects and IFADAP  shall  be responsible for approval
of Sub-loans.
3.   Applications  for  Sub-loans   for   agroindustries  and  for
vineyard restructuring in excess  of  15  ha shall be supported by
detailed feasibility studies or appraisal reports.
4.   The  first  three  Sub-loans  in  an  amount  more  than  the
equivalent of $50,000 and any Sub-loan  in an amount more than the
equivalent of $2,000,000 shall be subject to the prior approval of
the Bank.
5.   Each appraisal report shall include:
          (a)  an assessment of  the technical feasibility, finan-
               cial viability,  commercial  soundness and economic
               justification of  the  proposed Investment Project,
               including, as  appropriate,  an  assessment  of the
               export-marketing possibilities  for the incremental
               production of the Investment Project;
          (b)  where relevant, an evaluation of the Sub-borrower's
               creditworthiness,   organization,   management  and
               financial structure, and of the technical staff and
               capacity for  implementing  the  Investment Project
               and its operation;
          (c)  a financial rate of return of not less than 13% for
Page  6
               any  proposed  Investment   Project  calculated  in
               accordance with a  methodology  satisfactory to the
               Bank; and
          (d)  the environmental impact  of the Investment Project
               and the provision  to  be  made for compliance with
               the environmental regulations  of  the Borrower and
               the EEC.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Terms of the Sub-loans shall be as follows:
     (a)  Contribution to Cost of Investment Project
           Each Sub-borrower shall contribute not less than 15% of
           the cost of the  Investment  Project, including its own
           labor and materials.
     (b)   Rate of Interest
           Each Sub-borrower shall pay  interest  per annum on the
           outstanding principal amount  of  each  Sub-loan at the
           relending rate, which  rate  shall  be positive in real
           terms.
     (c)   Amortization Period
           The amortization period of  each  Sub-loan under Part B
           (1) of the  Project  (vineyard restructuring) shall not
           exceed 15 years, including  a  grace period of 6 years,
           and the  amortization  period  of  each  Sub-loan under
           Part B  (2)  of  the  Project  (agroindustry) shall not
           exceed 9 years, including  a  grace  period of 4 years.
           Each  such  amortization  and  grace  period  shall  be
           determined on the basis of  the projected cash flow for
           each type of Investment Project.
2.   Each Sub-loan shall be made on  terms whereby the CCAM or PBI
shall obtain, by  written  contract  with  the  Sub-borrower or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the  Bank,  the  Borrower  and  IFADAP, including the
right to:
     (a)   require the Sub-borrower to  carry  out and operate the
           Investment Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency
           and in accordance  with  sound technical, financial and
           managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
           out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan shall be procured in
           accordance with the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the
           Loan Agreement; and (ii)  such goods and services shall
           be used exclusively in the  carrying out of the Invest-
           ment Project;
     (c)   inspect, by itself  or  jointly with representatives of
           the Bank if  the  Bank  shall  so  request, such goods,
           works, plants and construction  included in the Invest-
           ment Project, the  operation  thereof, and any relevant
           records and documents;
     (d)   require that: (i) the  Sub-borrower  shall take out and
           maintain  with  responsible  insurers  such  insurance,
           against such risks  and  in  such  amounts, as shall be
           consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) with-
           out any limitation  upon  the foregoing, such insurance
           shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
           portation and delivery  of  goods  financed  out of the
           proceeds of the Loan to  the  place of use or installa-
           tion, any indemnity thereunder to  be made payable in a
           currency freely usable  by  the Sub-borrower to replace
Page  7
           or repair such goods;
     (e)   require that the  Sub-borrower  provide adequate colla-
           teral for the Sub-loan  in  the  form  of a mortgage or
           lien on real estate or equipment;
     (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank or IFADAP shall
           reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
           administration, operations  and  financial condition of
           the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to be derived from
           the Investment Project; and
     (g)   suspend or terminate the  right  of the Sub-borrower to
           the use of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan upon failure by
           such Sub-borrower to perform  its obligations under its
           contract with the CCAM or PBI, as the case may be.
