Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2076-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEt
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
EIGHTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 16, 1977
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official luties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witdout World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           = Rp 415
1 Rp           =  $0.0024
1 million Rp   =  $2,410
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIMAS        - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs",
a farm input-credit package program
BUUD         - Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD        - Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
ELC-NK       -  Electro Consult - Nippon Koei
INPRES       -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
a rural public works program
IPEDA        -  Iuran Penbangunan Dearah - Land Tax
KUD          -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
O&M          - Operation and maintenance
PUAT         -  Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah - an executive body within
DGWRD responsible for nationwide groundwater investi-
gations and development
PROSIDA      -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
Bank-assisted projects
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR AN
EIGHTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $63 million to help
finance an Eighth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest a[t 8.20% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent
Developments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND)
described the recovery of the economy from the world recession and the
financial troubles of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some
of the important development issues which the country faces in the next few
years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74)/1,
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. AgrLcultural oultput expan-
ded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this pericd, the annual rate
of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and investment also rose
rapidly. With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not only
a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a widier distribution of
inicome. The first two years of the Plan were dominated by the developments
in the oil sector - the sharp increase in the price oE oil and Pertamina's
serious financial difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's under-
taking of a large and diversified investment program without arraniging
satisfactory financing. With the onset of the world recession, bank credit
became much more restrictive. Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-
term debt and failed to meet the financial obligations which were falling
due. In the event, the Government stepped in and undertook to honor the oil
company's obligations. The repayment of these obligations, along with the
fall in export earLiltigs as a result of the recession, necessitated large
foreign commercial borrowing, seriously strained the Government's budgetary
resources and Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in
the foreign exchange reserves.
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan ce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.        During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly following
improvements in the world economy, and rose to a level higher than expected
earlier. Imports continued to increase rapidly, but the rate of price
increase slowed down and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. Most of
Pertamina's short-term debt had been repaid by the end of 1975/76, and
disbursements on foreign borrowing continued to be high in 1976/77. As a
result, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose to a more comfortable
level, i.e. $1.2 billion at the end of 1976 (and even higher levels in recent
months) corresponding to about two months of imports.
5.         The Government's budgetary position was also much better in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also rose over and above
the amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb
smuggling and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional
revenues together with continued restraint in increasing current expenditures
enabled the Government not only to increase development expenditures substan-
tially but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The rate of
inflation over the year decreased, from a high of 17% in the first quarter to
only a modest increase in the last two quarters of 1976/77, giving an average
increase of less than 15% for the year as a whole.
6.         In 1976, the domestic economy recovered in other respects also.
The available indicators suggest that industrial output and private invest-
ment rose faster than in the previous two years. The output and prices of
tree crops rose with foreign demand, thus raising the incomes of the producers.
This provided a welcome relief to the small producers, who had suffered from
the declining foreign prices of their produce combined with rising domestic
prices of consumer goods. However, the production of food crops slackened
and rice output failed to rise appreciably for the second year in succession.
The domestic price of rice was kept stable by means of very substantial
imports, which reached 1.6 million tons (about 10% of domestic consumption)
in 1976/77. Early in the year floods, and later on drought, affected both
the wet season and dry season harvests. More importantly, a pest infesta-
tion afflicted large areas in Java, particularly those planted with the high
yielding varieties of rice, and the area under BIMAS and INMAS (the two
credit extension schemes for rice growers) remained fairly constant over the
last three years following a rapid increase during the First Development
Plan period. Rice output also failed to increase because the use of fertil-
izer did not rise despite ample availability. The Government has now
relaxed controls on the distribution of fertilizer and set its fertilizer/
rice price ratio at a level that should encourage fertilizer use.
7.           The large increase in the oil revenues over the past three years
has been invested, not consumed. Government development expenditures more
than quadrupled over this period and in 1976/77 amounted to Rp 2 trillion
(or about $5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation
development expenditures rose in real terms by 35% a year. Rough estimates
indicate that at present more than 20% of GNP is being invested in Indonesia.



-3 -
8.        The effect of the high level of investment expenditures, however,
cannot yet be seen in the growth of the Indonesian economy. In fact, the
economic growth in the first three years of Indonesia's Second Development
Plan, i.e. 1974/75 - 1976/77, has been somewhat slower than the observed
long-term trend rate of 7.5% a year. The world recession, uncertainties
following the Pertamina crisis and domestic inflation (which made certain
domestic industries uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect
on the growth of the economy. Indonesia's growth rate also failed to accel-
erate because the economic benefits from investments Ln recent years have
been slow in coming and because the growth in the privrate sector slackened.
New investment has been concentrated on relatively capital-intensive indus-
trial and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods; some projects,
such as Krakatau steel and the LNG, have been further delayed by slow imple-
mentation. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments
in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc. depends on the
growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the
economy, which in Indonesia is mostly the private sector. Unfortunately, the
private sector seems to have failed to provide the necessary momentum of
growth. The indications are that investments in this sector, because of the
Government's attempts to control domestic inflation or because of the world
recession, rose only modestly in the first two years of the Plan.
9.        The orientation of the public sector investments was partly affec-
ted by the Government's takeover of Pertamina's projects in the non-oil
sector, but was also a result of its attempt to raise investment rapidly in
response to the sharply rising oil revenues. It was easier and quicker to
develop capital-intensive projects; plans for several of them in fact existed
even before the improvement in public finances. On the other hand, new
projects in such sectors as rural development, transmigration, health and
education generally required not only innovation but aLlso setting up new
institutions. Nevertheless, the Government views the orientation of its
investment program with some concern. As part of its efforts to rescue
Pertamina from bankruptcy, it initiated a careful review of all public sector
investment proposals and strengthened its control over the direction of
investments. Where practicable, the Government rejected or scaled down
costly proposals. The budget for 1977/78 provides for a larger share of
development expenditures in such sectors as agriculture, health, family
planning, education and regional development.
10.      Reliable data on the recent trends in employmLent are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate of more than one million
persons a year, but the current level of unemployment and the extent of
underemployment are not known. While considerable investment activity and
general economic prosperity is in evidence in urban and rural areas of
Indonesia, there is no indication that the labor market has tightened or that
the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace with domestic infla-
tion. However, the Government's efforts at family planning appear to have
yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates from an inter-censal
survey in 1976 indicate that since 1971 the birth rate in Java and Bali has
significantly declined.



- 4 -
11.        The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and burdensome unfinished investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in the last two years has raised the level of
debt service, which is now expected to reach $1.87 billion by 1980 or close
to 17% of the projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does
not take account of the contingent liabilities incurred with regard to the
hire-purchase of tankers, the exact amount of which is subject to litigation.
12.       The prospects for Indonesia's export are generally good; the
principal constraint is expected to be quantities available for export rather
than foreign demand. Indonesia's export earnings, at least over the next
five years, are expected to rise rapidly and it should not be difficult to
meet the debt service obligations and still to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods. However, to maintain the pace of
development, Indonesia will continue to need a substantial inflow of foreign
assistance on concessional terms. In order to keep the debt service burden
manageable, resort to commercial borrowing in the next few years will have to
be kept to a minimum. It is estimated that Indonesia will need $2.1 billion
in new external financing commitments in 1977, and about the same amount next
year, of which no more than one-third should be on commercial terms. At the
meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) in April 1977,
aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources were made. The
likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did not pledge, from
the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European countries should
raise the total of official development assistance to $1.5 billion.
13.       The heavy foreign debt service requirements will also reduce the
public sector resources available for investment. The net resource trans-
fers from abroad are expected to decline from $1.56 billion in 1976/77 to
about $640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5% to 1% of GNP. In order to
maintain the high rate of domestic investment already reached, the Govern-
ment would need to raise substantial additional revenue over the next few
years, the bulk of which would have to come from non-oil sources. The
additional revenue raising effort is also necessary to keep inflation under
control. The Government has already taken steps in this direction; income
tax procedures have been simplified and import duties are being more strictly
enforced. These measures as well as some additional ones need to be vigorously
pursued.
14.       The medium-term outlook of the Indonesian economy is good.  Over
the last eight years, GNP rose at an average rate of 7.5% a year, and food
production expanded in step. This rate of growth could be maintained in
future if the rate of investment continues to be high and the orientation of
investments is shifted to less capital-intensive forms. Thus the Government's
efforts in mobilising domestic resources and careful investment planning
would be crucial in maintaining the relatively high rate of economic growth
and creation of employment opportunities. The Government would also need to
pay special attention to the production of rice, and food crops generally, so
that the recent setbacks remain a temporary pheonomenon.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for Indonesia's presently tnderemployed and
growing labor force. Major efforts are needed to increase labor-intensive
employment and programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and
their living standards. To assist the Government in attaining its goals, the
Bank is planning to increase its commitments to Indonesia and in particular to
support projects designed to: improve agricultural cred[it; rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems; assist transmigration and other land development
outside Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employ-
ment in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-
scale industries, rural credit schemes as well as vocational and nonformal
education programs; develop the electric power system; construct urgently
needed water supply and transport facilities; and expand the national family
planning program.
16.       As of March 31, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits totaling
$561.8 million and 23 Bank loans amounting to $1,155.5 million. At that date,
IFC investments totaled $59.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1976
was about 6% and the share of debt service was less than 1%. By 1978 these
ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. A summary
statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of March 31,
1977, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained in
Annex II.
17.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
seven Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production, beef
cattle, sugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agriculture research,
food crop extension services, transmigration and nutrition development. The
Operations and Evaluation Department of the Bank is undertaking a study of
Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector. In the industrial sector, the
Bank has assisted in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
and distribution capacity, three for development finance companies (Government-
owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of indus-
trial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial eMtate. Loans and
credits have also been extended to the education (including technical and
agicultural education, textbook production, vocational and civil service
training), telecommunications, tourism, power generation and distribution,
transportation (including highways, inter-island shipping, railroads and
ports), population, urban and water supply sectors. Also a loan was extended
for a national resource survey and mapping project and four credits for
technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its
development programs and projects.
18.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; lending on Bank terms began in June 1974. Dis-
bursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory 'Levels. The



- 6 -
Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the cost to the
country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures
and of the need to establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the
National Development Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank
arranged in 1974 for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system. It is hoped
that the system which is due to commence operation shortly will lead to
better project administration.
19.       Six Loans have been made to Indonesia this fiscal year prior to the
proposed loan; two other loans are being presented to the Executive Directors
at this time, which would bring total lending to Indonesia this fiscal year to
$375.5 million. Projects for nucleus estate development, development finance
company (BAPINDO), population, small enterprise credit, rural credit and
non-formal education are expected to be ready for presentation in the next
several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
20.       Increased industrial and mining output (mainly oil) along with
banking, trade and other services have contributed to an average real growth
rate of GNP of about 7.5% per annum over the last five years or so; on the
other hand, agricultural output has grown by only 4-5% per annum.   In real
terms, agricultural production represented about 45% of GDP in 1970; prelim-
inary estimates indicate that in 1975 that share had fallen to about 37%.
Over the same period, the share represented by food crop production fell from
26% to 22%. The rapidly rising value of oil revenues has led to a decline in
the importance of the agricultural sector as a contributor to total export
earnings. Although exports of agricultural, forestry and fishery products
currently account for about 80% of the value of non-oil exports, they repre-
sent only about one-third of the value of total exports.
.21.       Despite its declining share of GDP and the value of exports, agri-
culture remains a major force in the life and welfare of the Indonesian
people. Some 80% of the population live in rural areas, and agriculture
provides part or full time employment for about 70% of the total labor force.
22.       Within agriculture, rice accounts for nearly one-third of the value
of agricultural production, dominates the scene, and has a considerable bearing
on the aggregate volume of food output. In the late 1960s, rice production
increased at a rate of some 5% per annum; however, that rate declined to about
3.5% per annum in the early 1970s and remains at that level. In general,
yield increases have been responsible for about three-quarters of production
increases. With the potential for increasing the area under rice and other
major food crops being limited to, at best, inferior soil types compared with
those now being used, improving yields through improved agricultural services
and/or rehabilitation of irrigation facilities assumes even greater importance.



-7-
23.       The urgency of increasing productivity in foodgrain production on
existing areas is emphasized by the lack of suita'ble soils on the islands
outside Java and Bali, and the continued growth in demand for grain.
Increased agricultural production was given high priority in Indonesia's
First Five-Year Plan (1969-74), with strong concentration of Government
programs on rehabilitation of irrigation systems, creation of price support
policies, provision of funds for research and extension, and improved
supply of inputs and credit to farmers. Nonetheless, imports of rice have
fluctuated for some years around one million tons annually and, due to
droughts, reached 1.6 million tons in 1976/77.  Indeed, the drought during
1976 has highlighted the vulnerability of foodgrain production to climatic
effects; because of weather and the inroads made by pests and disease, rice
production in 1976 recorded no growth compared with 1975.
24.       Self-sufficiency in foodgrain production, with emphasis on rice,
is a goal set by the Government for its Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79).
Attainment of this goal will require a growth rate of rice production of
at least 4% per year. If such a growth rate is to be achieved and sustained,
there will be a need for further intensification of irrigation development,
including completion of ongoing rehabilitation, groundwater development,
drainage and flood control schemes, and construction of storage dams to
increase cropping intensity in areas already irrigated as well as to serve
new irrigation areas.
25.       Assistance to the Government's irrigation development program has
been provided by the Bank through the financing of seven irrigation projects
(Credits 127, 195, 220, 289, 514-IND and Loans 1100 and 1268-IND), the
upgrading of staff of the Jatiluhur Authority (a semiautonomous agency
presently involved in carrying out three Bank-assisted projects), and finan-
cing of training programs to strengthen the technical and administrative
capabilities of PROSIDA - an agency of the Directorate-General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) created to execute 'Bank-assisted projects. A
Bank mission which visited Indonesia in September/October 1976 to review
work on the above-mentioned projects concluded that progress is generally
satisfactory and that most of the problems contributing to a number of the
projects being behind schedule (early management difficulties, slow starts in
engagement of consultants, unanticipated heavy rains in the 1973 dry season,
and inflation with its resultant cost overruns) have now been overcome. The
mission recommended that the Government departments concerned (Ministry of
*            Public Works and Power, BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance) take steps to
ensure a more timely release of funds required for operation and maintenance
(O&M) and undertake a review of future O&M funding and staffing requirements.
Production increases on all projects were generally in line with appraisal
estimates, and the economic rates of return remain quite satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       Under the previous seven Bank-assisted projects, rehabilitation of
Government-maintained irrigation systems has consisted primarily of those



-8-
aspects most essential to put the much neglected systems back to near normal
working conditions - reconstructing headworks and weirs, primary and secon-
dary canals and appurtenant structures. Financing for development of ter-
tiary and quarternary canal systems, necessary in order to eliminate water
having to flow from secondary canals over 50-100 plots before reaching the
farthest fields in the command area, has been provided under Credit 514-IND
and Loans 1100 and 1268-IND.
27.       PROSIDA prepared the feasibility studies for Madiun rehabilitation
(Stage I) and for Ciujung drainage, assisted in the former by ELC/NK (consul-
tants). With assistance from ELC/NK, the feasibility study for the Madiun
pilot groundwater project was prepared by P2AT, a special unit of the DGWRD
responsible for groundwater investigations and development in Indonesia.
The project was appraised in October/November 1976 and the loan negotiated in
Washington from April 18-25, 1977. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. Suyono Sosrodarsono, Director-General of Water Resources Development.
The Appraisal Report No. 1468a-IND dated May 5, 1977, is being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately; a loan and project summary is contained
in Annex III, and supplementary data in Annex IV.
Project Areas
28.       The Madiun rehabilitation project area, part of the 140,000 ha
Madiun irrigation system, is located on the slopes and flood plain of the
Madiun and Solo river watersheds in East Java and consists of 26 irrigation
systems, varying in size from 140 ha to 11,800 ha, covering 75,000 ha in
total. Fully developed and controlled irrigation systems account for about
60,400 ha, and less developed and insufficiently controlled systems, 7,200 ha;
the remaining 7,400 ha are covered by simple or village irrigation. Bounded
on the west by a range containing Lawu mountain, by the slopes of Wilis
mountain on the east, a low range of hills on the south and the Kendeng hills
on the north, most of the project area is located on the valley floor,
receiving the bulk of its irrigation water from the Madiun River and its
tributaries (Map 12634).
29.       The Ciujung drainage project area is situated on the low estuary
lands of the Ciujung River and comprises 5,700 ha in 16 parcels of irrigated
land within the 24,300 ha Ciujung subproject area in West Java. Due to the
river's low gradient, almost all of the project area is subjected to annual
flooding (Map 12633).
30.       Although data on farm size and land tenure is sketchy, available
information indicates an average farm size of 0.5 ha in both project areas.
At Madiun, where landless laborers comprise about 22% of the estimated
1.1 million rural population, some 80% of the farmers are owner-operators and
20% sharecroppers. Landless laborers account for about 30% of the estimated
100,000 rural population at Ciujung, where some 60% of the farmers are owner-
operators and 40% sharecroppers.
31.       During the wet season the major crop in both project areas is
paddy, of which 65,700 ha at Madiun and the entire 5,700 ha at Ciujung is
irrigated. The remaining 9,300 ha at Madiun is covered by sugarcane. In the



-9-
dry season, farmers at Ciujung irrigate about 850 ha of paddy; at Madiun, the
sugarcane area is irrigated, as well as 15,000 ha of paddy, with partial
irrigation of palawija /1 crops (of which the major one planted is soybeans).
Pro-lect Description
32.       The 140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system compirises 117 distinct sys-
tems served by about 120 km of main canals, 700 km of secondary canals,
1,200 headworks and 2,500 hydraulic structures. Under the proposed project
(Stage I), work on 75,000 ha of the system would cover: (a) rehabilitation
or reconstruction of 216 headworks; (b) rehabilitation of 440 km of primary
and secondary canals (including 1,400 structures, charnel clearing and
lining); and (c) improvement of drainage systems, some! 30,000 ha of tertiary
works, about 450 km of inspection and access roads, and 338 km of telephone
communication lines (for operation and maintenance). In addition, provision
is made for construction of buildings for operation and maintenance (O&M)
personnel, staff housing, and procurement of vehicles and equipment.
33.       Construction of a pilot groundwater scheme for about 2,800 ha at
three different locations (Balong, Caruban and Tanon) in the Madiun-Solo
area would require: (a) drilling, casing and developing, to depths of
100-150 m, about 30 wells; (b) procurement and installation of 44 turbine
pumps with diesel primemovers and construction of pumphouses; and (c) pro-
curement of vehicles and equipment. Additionally, about 15 km of inspection
and access roads would be rehabilitated, 4 km of new roads constructed and,
in the Tanon area, about 3 km of tertiary and 15 km of quarternary canals and
drains would be constructed. Provision is also made for local inservice and
overseas training of operation and maintenance staff.
34.       Implementation of the flood control and drainage plan in the
Ciujung area would require: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of gated
control structures, weirs, box culverts, pipe drains aLnd check dikes, which
are all appurtenant to existing surface drainage systetms; (b) rehabilitation
of existing secondary drains and construction of about 7 km of primary and
30 km of secondary collector drains; (c) dredging of 7 km of river channel;
(d) surfacing of 5 km of existing road, construction of about 200 km of new
roads along the drainage embankments, and reconstruction of 5 bridges; and
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment. Work on th,e drains and river
channel would include raising and reconstructing floodL protection and road
embankments.
35.       The proposed project also makes provision fcor technical assistance
to PROSIDA for: the expansion of the Audio-Visual TraLining Aids program
(started under Loan 1100-IND); design of tertiary irrigation and drainage
systems in the Cirebon and Rentang subproject areas; a text processing and
centralized records depository and retrieval system for documents related to
ongoing and future Bank-assisted projects; and additional large-scale mapping
on all Bank-assisted irrigation projects under PROSIDA management.
/1  Palawija crops are those other than rice, sugar and estate crops.



-10 
Organization and Management
36.       Implementation of the tertiary construction and rehabilitation works
in Madiun, flood control, drainage works and inspection roads in Ciujung, and
the technical assistance component under the proposed project would be the
responsibility of PROSIDA. It would carry out day-to-day supervision of tertiary
construction and rehabilitation works in Madiun and direct drainage works at
field level in Ciujung through its subproject offices in those areas. Respon-
sibility for implementing the groundwater pilot project would rest with P2AT;
direction at field level would be carried out through its Madiun subproject
office, which was established and strengthened under previous Bank loans and
credits.
37.       PROSIDA, who completed rehabilitation works under the First
Irrigation project (Credit 127-IND) and is currently responsible for works
under four other Bank-assisted projects, is one of the most efficient units
of DGWRD and, with its long and significant experience in implementing
irrigation projects in Indonesia, should have no difficulty in executing
those components of the proposed project for which it would be responsible.
Similarly, P2AT which, under the Fourth Irrigation project (Credit 289-IND)
supervised the investigation of the groundwater potential in the Madiun-Solo
area, is expected to have no problem in establishing the pilot groundwater
subproject, which is an extension of these investigations. To ensure good
coordination of the works within the overlapping service areas in Madiun,
DGWRD has appointed a subproject manager and a deputy subproject manager
common to both PROSIDA and P2AT. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that: (a) the PROSIDA and P2AT subproject
offices involved in project implementation would at all times be adequately
staffed; and (b) should it be necessary to replace either the General Manager
of PROSIDA or the General Manager of P2AT, consultations would be held with
the Bank before new appointments are made (Section 3.07 (a) and (b) of the
Loan Agreement).
38.       Through Credit 289-IND and Loan 1100-IND, consulting services are
being financed for the preparation of the Madiun rehabilitation and ground-
water pilot project feasibility studies, as well as subsequent detailed
engineering and continued groundwater investigations. Consulting services
for studies and detailed design of drainage works were provided under
Loan 1268-IND, and Loan 1100-IND provided for assistance in developing an
audio-visual program for O&M training. Under the proposed loan, funds would
be made available for consulting services to cover: (a) construction super-
vision of rehabilitation works, detailed design of tertiary systems, and a
feasibility study for the proposed Bendo Dam in the Madiun project area;
(b) preparation of detailed design and construction drawings for the pilot
groundwater project, supervision of well drilling, installation of equipment,
civil works construction, and operational guidance for the two years follow-
ing implementation; (c) feasibility studies for large-scale groundwater
development in the Madiun-Solo area; (d) supervision of construction of
the Ciujung drainage works; and (e) design of the tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems for the Cirebon and Rentang subprojects.]J In addition,
/1 Construction of the systems is being financed under Loan 1100-IND.



- 11 -
consulting services would also be provided for extension and expansion of
the audio-visual training program, and for identifying and analyzing records
management problems, text processing, and supervising equipment installation
and start-up and training staff for the records depository and retrieval
systems.
39.       In view of the substantial cost savings (see para. 42) and develop-
mental benefits, the Government is endeavoring to encourage and develop local
consultants. To upgrade the capability of these consuLtants, foreign firms
would be encouraged to associate with local firms approved by the Government
and the Bank. A total of about 3,100 man-months of consulting services would
be required, of which about 2,620 (mainly for design ofE the tertiary irriga-
tion and drainage systems for Cirebon-Rentang) would be provided by Indonesian
consultants.  Given the scope and diversity of the project, the cost of con-
sulting services (about 10% of total project costs) would not be out of line
with costs of services for projects of this nature. To avoid possible imple-
mentation delays associated with the engagement of consultants, assurances
have been obtained from the Government that consultants acceptable to the Bank
would be engaged by December 31, 1977, under terms and conditions approved by
the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Supporting Services
40.       Farmers obtain credit from a number of sources, including Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), village cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs), landlords, mer-
chants and relatives. The main credit supplier is BRI who, through the
BIMAS program, extends short-term loans to eligible A1 farmers for seed,
fertilizer, agrochemicals, spraying and cost-of-living expenses. Currently,
due in part to farmers' ineligibility for loans and in part to a shortage
of BRI field staff to process and issue BIMAS credit applications, the
program only covers 75% of irrigated wet-season paddy, 37% of irrigated
dry-season paddy and 5% of the palawija area at Madiun, and, in Ciujung,
42% of the wet-season and 6% of the dry-season paddy. Rice seed, of which
about 3,250 tons in the Madiun and 450 tons in the Ciujung project areas
are currently used annually, are available through BUUD/KUDs or local seed
farms.
41.       At present, due to a shortage of trained staff, only BIMAS recip-
ients are eligible for extension services. Participation will be expanded
through introduction into the project areas of the Bank-assisted National
Food Crops Extension (NFCE) project (Loan 1267-IND). Fertilizer is supplied
mainly under the BIMAS program and application rates are high and inconsistent
with crop yields. This is primarily due to incorrect application procedures
and timing, resulting in much of the fertilizer being wasted. Improved
extension services under the NFCE project will assist farmers in making more
efficient use of fertilizer supplies.
/1 To be eligible for the loan, a farmer must not be more than two years
overdue on his earlier BIMAS repayments.



- 12 -
Prolect Cost and Financing
42.       The estimated project cost is $118 million, of which $58.8 million
(about 50%) would be in foreign exchange. Cost estimates include allowances
for physical contingencies of 10% for miscellaneous services and 25% for the
rehabilitation and drainage components. The latter is high because the costs
have been based on sample areas where experience under ongoing irrigation
rehabilitation projects has shown that substantial additional work is likely
to be required after the existing structures are dewatered. Provisions for
price increases due to inflation amount to $24.3, or 21% of total project
cost. For civil works, the assumed annual rates of inflation are 20% in
1977, 15% in 1978-79, and 12% in 1980-82. For equipment and services they are
7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% in 1980-82. Costs of consulting services are based on
recent contracts signed in Indonesia for similar services with local and
foreign firms. The direct costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas
allowance and company overhead and fee) amount to about $6,500/man-month.
Including indirect costs (travel, housing, office and miscellaneous expenses),
the total cost would be about $8,000/man-month. By comparison, total costs
of local consultants amount to about $2,000/man-month.
43.       The proposed loan of $63 million would finance 53% of total project
costs, consisting of the foreign exchange component plus an estimated
$4.2 million of local costs of Indonesian consultants. The loan would have a
repayment term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace. The Government
would provide to the various participating agencies and units the remaining
$55 million out of annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
44.       Vehicles and equipment for construction and operation (estimated
cost $5.1 million including contingencies) would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For purposes
of bid evaluation, a preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the level of actual customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified manufacturers of these goods. Small off-the-shelf
items of less that $10,000 each and limited to an aggregate total of $100,000,
which are not suitable for international competitive bidding, would be pur-
chased through normal Government procurement procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Bank. There are sufficient supplies of such goods to ensure
adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and equipment in excess of
$100,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding
and award. Mapping would be carried out under locally advertised contracts
following usual Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Con-
sultants services would be procured in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
45.       Since drainage structures in Ciujung, small structures for tertiary
systems in Madiun, and small pumphouses, power station buildings and tube-
wells in the Madiun-Solo area are scattered over a wide area and construction



- 13 -
would occur over a period of about 5 years, they would be of little interest
to international contractors.  These works would, therefore, be carried out
either by force account or locally advertised contracts following usual
Government procedures, which were reviewed under previous Bank-assisted
projects and are acceptable. This would equally applyt to project works in
the Madiun rehabilitation area, where the work is spretad over 75,000 ha in
26 separate service units with a great variety of work among the units. The
preparation of detailed designs, construction drawings and specifications
could be accomplished most efficiently by concentrating the work in each
service unit and combining several units in each construction contract. Such
groupings, even though they might be large in capital cost, would still not
be attractive to international contractors because they would consist of a
great number of relatively small and disparate constrtuction activities
scattered over a wide area. Accordingly, assurances have been obtained from
the Government that: (a) to ensure wide competition and upgrade the capability
of the local contracting industry, the rehabilitation works (excluding
tertiary networks) would be divided into a number of suitable contracts
(minimum $125,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint
ventures of small local firms to bid within the categories or classes for
which Government regulations require them to be prequalified; (b) price
escalation clauses, which are not normally provided in local civil works
contracts, would be included in contracts extending beyond one year; (c) to
minimize late construction starts, tenders would be advertised as bid docu-
ments are completed and bids would be processed even before the project
implementation budget (DIP) is signed, although contract award and signing
would only be done after the DIP is approved; and (d) for contracts estimated
to cost $500,000 and above, documents would be submitited to the Bank for
review before tendering and award (Schedule 4, Section B.l and D.l of the
Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
46.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would cover:
(a) 60% of total costs for civil works;
(b) 80% of total expenditures for mapping services;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for both local and foreign
consultants;
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of overseas training;
(e) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
vehicles and equipment; 95% of the exfactory cost of locally
manufactured equipment; 65% for locally procured imported
equipment (excluding vehicles); and 40% of total expenditures
for locally procured vehicles.
In the case of the tertiary systems, disbursements would be made only if
the withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the site
engineer stating that the quarternary canals and drains in the tertiary



- 14 -
block have also been constructed (Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) of the Loan Agree-
ment). Disbursements for force account works would be made against certifi-
cates of expenditure, which would be retained by the Government and be made
available for inspection by Bank missions.
47.       In order to enable PROSIDA to extend the contracts of consultants
(engaged and funded under Credit 289-IND and Loan 1100-IND) who prepared the
feasibility report and undertook detailed engineering for the Madiun rehabil-
itation subproject, set up the audio-visual training aids program, and pre-
pared the Madiun-Solo pilot groundwater feasibility study as well as continu-
ing groundwater investigations in the study area, it is recommended that
expenditures for consulting services incurred from April 1, 1977, up to
an amount of $100,000, be financed retroactively. In addition, since a
number of bids for civil works under the project have already been processed
and both PROSIDA and P2AT are anxious to award the contracts and have con-
struction commence as soon as possible, it is recommended that expenditures
for civil works, up to a maximum of $1.0 million, incurred from April 1,
1977, be financed retroactively.
Operation and MŽaintenance (O&M)
48.       During construction, and for a period of one year thereafter,
PROSIDA, working with Provincial 0&M staff, would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of tertiary systems and primary and secondary
irrigation works in Madiun. The systems would then be formally turned over
to the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service, which would assume respons-
ibilty for operating and maintaining the primary and secondary systems.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that a water-user associa-
tion would be formed in each tertiary unit (covering about 150 ha) in the
project areas, to participate in the construction of the tertiaries, utilize
the improved water supplies, and operate and maintain the tertiary systems
(Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement). The water-user associations would
collect 40-50 kg of paddy/ha from each beneficiary in order to meet O&M
costs, a procedure that is currently being used on a number of pilot tertiary
systems and has, in nearly all instances, resulted in the systems being
adequately maintained.
49.       Operation and maintenance of the Ciujung flood control and drainage
works, and of inspection roads, would be the responsibility of PROSIDA
(working with Provincial O&M staff) during construction and for one year
thereafter, before being turned over to the West Java Provincial Irrigation
Service. The Provincial Irrigation Service would then assume responsibility
for O&M of the internal drains and inspection roads along the embankments of
the drains; the Directorate of Rivers for the main drainage channels; and the
Kabupaten (District) for the district and village roads in the project area.
During, and for a three-year transition period following establishment, P2AT
would operate and maintain all works, including tubewells, pumps and diesel
engines of the schemes in the groundwater pilot project. The schemes would
then be turned over to the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service. To
ensure proper O&M of the pilot project, assurances have been obtained from
the Government that, within one year of project completion, a water-user
association would be formed for each well for the purpose of establishing and



- 15 -
collecting irrigation fees.  Collection of these fees, based on the benefi-
ciaries' capability to pay, would commence no later than one year after the
well begins operating and would be used to cover part of P2AT's operating
expenses, with the balance of the O&M costs during the transition period
being provided by the Government. Once the schemes have been turned over to
the Provincial Irrigation Service it would, during the first five years of
well operation, gradually increase the fees in amounts sufficient to ensure
sound O&M practices (Section 4.05(a) of the Loan Agreement). Assurances have
also been obtained from the Government that, by June 30, 1981, it would
furnish to the Bank a report on the implementation of the pilot groundwater
project, including an assessment of the beneficiaries" capability to contri-
bute to the project's replacement cost and its proposals for collecting such
contributions from the beneficiaries. Based on this assessment, the water-
user associations would establish and collect replacement charges in amounts
to be agreed with the Bank (Section 4.05(b) of the Loan Agreement).
50.       Although there have been some improvements Ln O&M services in the
completed and ongoing irrigation projects, a major constraint has been the
untimeliness of fund releases; in addition, there is still need for increases
in budgetary allocations and trained staff. In its FY77/78 budget, the
Government has allocated about Rp 3,350 million for O&M of all Bank-assisted
irrigation systems, but further improvements in O&M services will only be
realized if the allocated funds are released to the subprojects in a timely
manner, and additional personnel employed to ensure that the available funds
are effectively utilized. Accordingly, the following assurances have been
obtained from the Government (Section 4.03 (b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement:
(a) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and
actual needs, would be allocated in future years for all Bank-
assisted irrigation systems;
(b)  the necessary steps would be taken to ensure that at least one-
half of the annual budgeted O&M funds would be released to the
subprojects by August 15 of each year and tlhe balance in equal
quarterly installments until the total annual allocated amounts
are fully released;
(c) to upgrade the standard of O&M services and effectively utilize
the available funds, the number of qualified O&M personnel in
Bank-assisted projects would be progressively increased until
adequate staff levels, established by the Government in consul-
tation with the Bank, have been attained; and
(d) by December 31 of each year, it would inform the Bank of the
proposed number of O&M personnel and per ha budget for each
subproject; by June 1 of each following year, it would submit the
approved O&M budget; and by October 1, the staffing provisions.
Cost Recovery
51.       Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) assessed as a per-
centage of the value of production and, depending on the intensity of onfarm



- 16 -
irrigation development, water charges for O&H of the system below the secon-
dary turnout. As a result of a Government decision to provide special allo-
cations under its local infrastructure development program (INPRES) on the
basis of IPEDA collection performance, there has been a marked improvement
in assessments and collection rates in all irrigated areas in Indonesia. The
current average annual IPEDA rates are Rp 7,000/ha at Madiun and Rp 4,000/ha
at Ciujung. At full project development, these rates (in 1977 prices) are
expected to increase to Rp 12,000/ha at Madiun and Rp 9,000/ha at Ciujung.
Based on these incremental rates, the cost recovery indices are 28% for Madiun
rehabilitation and 9% for Ciujung drainage. The project charges in the Madiun
area are considered satisfactory. The low level of cost recovery in Ciujung
is acceptable since the per capita incomes of some 70% of all farm families
in the area would still be below the country's absolute poverty level. To
ensure the irrigators' continued contributions towards the maintenance of
project works, assurances have been obtained from the Government that: (a)
under its laws and regulations, it would collect the adjusted IPEDA rates
based on the increased productivity of all irrigated land rehabilitated and
constructed under the project, at levels consistent with the beneficiaries'
capability to pay; (b) the amounts collected would be sufficient to ensure
sound O&M practices and to recover a reasonable portion of capital costs
during the project's useful life; and (c) the IPEDA rates collected for
different land classes would be furnished every two years to the Bank for
comments (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
52.       The proposed project, by providing improved water control distri-
bution and drainage, would increase crop yields and production on a total of
80,700 ha at Madiun and Ciujung. Production on the 2,800 ha served by the
pilot groundwater development component would also be increased by providing
a new source of irrigation water and continued investigation of the ground-
water resource. The project would directly benefit some 167,000 farm families
(about 1.0 million people) and, through the provision of additional employment
opportunities, some 49,000 landless laborers' families (about 294,000 people).
On project completion, the increase in paddy production is expected to total
93,000 tons annually (about 1.1 ton/ha, or 90 kg/person). After deducting
the incremental cost of imported chemicals, fuel and other farm inputs, the
annual net foreign exchange savings would amount to about $26 million at full
development.
53.       Using, in all cases, a 30-year evaluation period; full benefits
being attained 6 years after completion of construction; farm-gate prices for
rice, soybeans, sugarcane and fertilizers based on the Bank's commodity price
projections for 1985 expressed in December 1977 constant prices; a shadow
foreign exchange rate; and a seasonably variable shadow wage rate for
unskilled labor, the economic rates of return would be 21% for the Madiun
rehabilitation (which accounts for 75% of project costs), 18% for the Ciujung
drainage (15.1% of project costs) and 13% for the Madiun-Solo pilot groundwater
development components (10% of project costs). The weighted economic rate
of return for the three components would be 20%. Sensitivity analyses
indicate that, even taking into account cost overruns, reductions and delays
in benefits, valuing of farm labor throughout the year at market wage rates



- 17 -
and foreign exchange at the official exchange rate (Rp 415   US$1.00), the
rates of return would not fall below 16% for the Madiun rehabilitaion, 14%
for the Ciujung drainage, and 9% for the pilot groundwater development
components.
54.       The majority of the beneficiaries of the project would be small
farmers and sharecroppers. At full project development (1986), per capita
farm income at Madiun would increase by 14-55% (from $35-110 to $40-170) and
at Ciujung by 33-100% (from $30-50 to $40-100). An estimated 85-90% of
the project areas' farm families presently have per capita incomes at or
below the estimated absolute poverty level of $95 (1975 prices). At full
development the project would increase this group's income on average by 40%,
thereby raising above the absolute poverty level (but still below the 1975
Indonesian per capita GNP of $210) the incomes of one fifth to one quarter of
the farmers in the group. The project would also benefit the landless labor
force, by creating a demand for an additional 4.9 million man-days of farm
labor per year.
Environmental Effects
55.       The areas embraced by all three elements of the project have been
under irrigation and cultivation for many generations and no permanent
adverse ecological effects are anticipated from the project works. The use
of fertilizers and pesticides is already widespread in the project areas,
where users are constantly reminded of the toxic effect of pesticides on
humans and domestic animals and urged to exercise care in their application.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bark and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
57.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex IV of this Report.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 16, 1977
Washington, D.C.



*.5;:I pzcA   OsDT    OTPage Ioflo4aiss
4ot0"t5#              *SOCIAL INDICATR$U DATA $"gIa vp1o 4"e
L^"b-^"g gtK°" It"|& ~~~~~0.*0---- ...... 0-------9.-w-6 ...                     .............-----*w--
*- ............                 INDONCSIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES 1191O)
TOTAL.    1943                                              NOST RECINT
ASRIC.      2o3,6                        *190         t970   ESTIMATE             IANSLADESH      INDIA           PHILIPPINEtP
SNP PllER jITA  (UISS)                       iOo       110.0       180.0                 90,0        110.0       230.0
............. a  .
POPULATION.AND VITAL STATSIT1C5
POPULATION  Cm;;:YR: MILLION)             95,4       116.3       131,6                 70.8       547.6         3b,9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER  SQUARE NM.                         50.0        61,0       69,0                496.0        167.0        123.0
PER S0. KH,  SRICULTURAL LiND          15,.0       411,0      453,0                695.0        308.0        279.0
VITAL STATISTICS
eRUDE BIRTH RATE 1/THOU, NV)            46,0        45.9        42,9                 00,          1sD         44,2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (IT4OU,AV)             25.a        20.6        16,9                at2.           9 O3 Z
tCNANT NORTALETY RATE (ITHOU)          t2S.0/ab                   ;                la 0o            ;.        80,0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CY*S)          47.5          ,.        4o.O                 43,3        47,2         55.6
tROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2,          3.12        3.,                  3.1          2.9         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE ttl
TOTAL'                                   2.1         2.0         2.5/a                2.  /a      2,3          3.0
UR8AN                                       ,        3.7/        4.1 t3                                        4.0
URBAN POPULATION CX Of TOTAL)              14.9       17.S/b      10.2                  6.4         1908         27.6
AtC STRUCTURE (PERCENTU
0 TO 14 YEARS                          42. /a    44.0          43.9                k46.4        41.6         45,6
Is TO ba YEARS                          55, 37      53.5        53.6                 51O         SS 5         51.6
65 yEARS AND OVER                        2.           I 2.5      2;s                  2.6          3.1         2.8
AIG DEPENODNCY RATIO                        0,8                                         I 0          0,            0,9
ECO40MIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                              09          013                   1.16 lb     II .S
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE.  THOU)                      259:3/c   6786.2 /                                       Ism .5, 3ss
USERS (Y OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ,                                           .,            ,         2.o
EMPLOYMENT
TOTaL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           14600,0                 44200.0 /A          2230o.0   21000. o        12300.o
LAoR* FORCE Iw AGRICULTURE (XI             75.0                   69 oO0 6/4 ;I °                                     /a
UNEMPLOYED tX OF LAIO9 FIRCE)               5,a         ,,                               . ,          ,,          7.0
INCOmE DIS3TRUTyl3N
I or PRIVATE oNCOME RCECD 00.
HIGHEST  5t OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ,         ,,        33     I7/ f/                    25,  
HIGHEST 20t OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ,                  52.0                 4,23         53,1
LOwEST  301 or HOU4SHDLDS                                          a b  8               9          4 7 07
LOWEIT  40A   Of WOUSEHOLDS                ..         *-        17,3                 19.6 E       13.,
IS1TRISUTION OP LAND 0WNERSHIP
,-w...                 ..           ,,.. 
S ONEND 8r TOP I0X Dr OWNERS              4H, O.                                       3'b. ^J  O
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10  ONNCRS             3:0 n        .. :                           1' 0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
_. ...........
POPULATION PER PHYSNCIAN               41380:0 A  2b370,0    16870.0                7NooJ0 na    489C0o
POPULATION PER NURS INo PRSON            7? 7630.0              7290. 0             420 o3  a     5220. 0
POPULATIMN PER HOSPITAL BED             1370.0&  1640.0 L~1450.0                     8 42 0: o0    I6 bl        090,0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)            89.0        9t.0        98 0                   ..            n       100,o
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 43,0        43,0 °                              -        545.7 
.OF WHICH AOMA6L AND PULSE            15.0        14. n                               ,           .0        22,0
DtATH RATE C/THu)  AGES 1.0                             *.          *.                   *.           ..          9,0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          59.0        69.0        79. 0                sf1.0 /      6 A$        10  0,
SCDAYSCHOOL                         6.0       12.0        19.0                 I5.7                     40,
tEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO  LEVELI               42.0        12.0        02.0                 10.0         12. (10 
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
tX OF SECONDOAR)                        2407 nO      9.0        32, 0                 1 0          a    d 04    e    b
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Xi                   41.0        59.0        b2,0/,                 .          33,0
HOUSING
-E;S;NS PER RoOM (URBAN)                     ,,                                                                   2.1
OCCUPIED OWcLLINpS WITHOUT                                                                                        2.1
PIPED WATER CR)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITy                                                                                            76e
R DOP ALL DWELLINiS)
RURAL 4WLLINS8 CONNECTED                                                                                         23,0
TO ELECTRICITY CX)                                     .           *..
CONSUNPTION
RAD IS O  RECg e IVf  E  R ^  s  (P[R   THO U   POP)  7.0  11 0.0  a9 o                6 0         21 0         a5.0
PASSENgER,EARS CPEN THOU POPi               1.0        2,.0        2,0                   .             0
ELECTRICITY (owN/yR PER CAP)               15.0       20.0        27,0                 10.0        1t,0         23S0
NEWSPRTNT CKGwYR PER CAP)                   0.2        0.3         O0'                 20,0        01,          235.0
see NOTES AND DEFINITION# ON RCVER;C



MIMEX I
Page 2 Of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless ethersaie noted, dote for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Ettieate betseen
1973 and 1975.
*   Including West Irian.
**  The Philippines has bero selected as an objective teentry for ito geographical similarity and hecause of its apparent advanced stage of economic
develolpment.
L7DON7ESIA      1960   l/  Exlotdes West Irian;    Lb  1962;    /c  1951-56;    /d  1961-63;   /I  10 years and ever, ability to read or sfitf  in
either Latin or non-Latin charactern.
1970    /a  1961-71;    lb  1971;    /c  1968 to 1970;    /d  Including ridwiven;              /e  Total, hospital bed incosaplete.
MOST REC7ENT tSTldATE:    /a  1970-75;    /b  1976;    /c  1971:    /d  1968 to 1975;    /e  Mostly ucneplfyed c.orkers seetkig theif
first job;    /f  Incene recipients,;            Including midwives;    /h  1972;    /i  10 yearn and ever,
ability to read or write in either Latin or  ono-Latin characters;    /j  Not compsrable with 1970.
BANGLADESO      1970    Ia  The 1970-75 population growth rate is uboconally Iee doe to thb  effects of the car of independence and noss population
movemnots across the borders during that period. Presently, the overage population growth rate is estimated at 3'i
per annum;    /b  Ratio of pep.lation under 15 and 6i  and over to total labor force;              c  1966-67;    /d  1967-68;
/n  Registered, net all practicing in the country;    /f  Goverasment hospital estoblishmests only;    /g  Approxinate
enrollment as percentage of population in 6-10 and 11-15 age groups.
INDIA           1910    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor farce age 15 and over;    Lb  1907-68;    /c  1ncluding oidwiven;
/d 1967.
PHILIPPINES     1970    to  As percentage of e.ploynoot;    Lb  Not including private vocational schools.
h16, may 5, 1977
DPI 7ITIONM OF SOCOAL 7NDICATORS
Land Area (thou te2e                                                                        Popu7atioe Per nursing perso-  - PopulCtion divided by number of prac-icing
Total - fotal surface area ceeprisiag land area and inland woters.                            nal and fenle gradcasce norao, "'rained" or "certified" n-raes, and
Uaric. - Most recent eacirate of agricultural area need tonporarily or parse-                auniliery pernsonnl with training or  xpori.ence.
e.ently for crops, pastures, rarket & kitchan gardens or to lie fallee.                   P-pvlabioe per buaictal bai - pfPtgtica dividd  by nosber of hbspital beds
availahie fo pubic and prlete inneral  and apectaliend hospital  and
iNP per .apit. (5501 - CNP per capita entimates at current  orkte prices,                     rehabilitation centers; eccludea nursing hanen and esrablishmnnts for
.calculted by seen conver-ion -ethod as World Baek Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 end 1975 dare.                                                                One capita -spl-c of caloence  % of rCumeetl -teputed tens energy
equivalent of n t fond supplies  avilable in country per  apits  per day;
pcralatlon and visal statistics                                       ava~~~~~~~~~~ilable supPlies noprise dosstin pruductlon ,ioputs lens ncpnrts, and
Ponuleion             "iid-vearnmlli"n)    o of July first:  if nat available, overage        changes ic stuck; not nupplits ecrlode  anital feed, seeds, quantities used
at two end-year astixates; 1160, 1970 und 1975 data.                                        in food process lg and loaso  in distribution; acqirv ets wer estitnatd
by Sac boar.d us physiolegleal nee ds for n-sa activity and health oonsid-
Population dennisi   - per square us - Mid-year Ppoulation per square kilqxeter               eniag anvirncnnatal tneper-turn, body weights, age and se  diatributions of
(1D0 bectrreo) of total area.                                                              popalatian, and allowing lDM for wsate at household level.
PoPulrti-n denoity - ver square ku of agric. 1god - Cqrpuetd as ob-ee for                   Par copitr sanelpy ci rprtei  (gramr par dan) - Protein ntennt of per capita
agricultural land pply.                                                                     net supply of fuod per day; net aupply of fund is defined an above; raqoire-
n-cc fur all  ocatries established by USDA Ecuconic Raeanroh cervices
Vital statistics                                                                              provide icr a minimue allowance of 60 gaca of total protein per day, and
trade birth rate Per thoosand. aenrage - An-..l live birth. per thousaed or                   20 cross of sntnsi  and pulse protein, of which 10 grees should be  naniai
=id-year pepulaioc_; ten-year arithnetic averagen endiog in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are loer than those of 75 grn of tota1 protein
and fit-yeer average ending n 1975 for  sst recent etlstiete.                               and 23 grass of animal protein as anaverage for the world, proposed by FAf
C'rude death rate per thousand.  -.aree - Annual deaths per thousand of nid-year              in the Third World Food Sa-ey
popsll ion; tee-year arithnetic averageu ending in 1963 sad 1970 sad five-                         artf                             d PoIs  - Proosin supply of fed
year avanfgc ending ig  1975 Far nest recent setinata.                                      darived free acioals ted pclsle  in grose per day.
mnfant aurtlito rate (/that) - Annual deaths of infapts under o.e year of age              DSoth race (/thou) uegn  1-4 - Annual deaths per th usand In age greep 1-4
per tbousand lIce births.                                                                   years, to children in this age greup; suggested an so indicator of
Life enpectoncy at birth lyre'  - .verage nuaber of yvars of life reusi"i`g at                palnutrition.
birth; usually ftiv-year averages ending ic 1960, 1970 and 1975 for deyelop-
ing coutneies.                                                                            Eduta.i.n
-rons reproduction,tta-,crrce cumbar of live daughtera a conan will bear                    Adiustad eneclisecnt ratio - priaury school - Enrollment of all ages an per-
in her normal repc-d-t rice periud if aheexperiences present age-apecifit                   cectage uf primary schoul-age pupulteino; intludes children aged 6-11 yearn
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   hot edjonted for different lengthc  of pninary education; for cvuntine  ith
for developing counttien -uiversal education, enrullmeni msyex.eed 1007. osince                                                                            popln  re belo
Ponplatiae creets rate (7. - totl - Compound annnal growth rates of nii-yesr                  or above the official schoal age.
populatius fcr 1910-if  19fD   an   905                                                    dh,asted nasrellnet rfatla-seundary nchool - (spated as abore; secondary
Populatita grown  rate (Ml - urban - Cepotad like growth rate of total                        education requires at least fonc  years of approved primary inetructio;
papalerion; differenr dnfinition= of urban areac nay affect co-par-biloty of                pro-ides generel vocational or tescrhe  training  uiatructions far pupil
dsea enang cunstries.                                                                       of 12 no 17 yearn of age; correspopdnenecourses one geperally cxcluded.
Urban population (E of total; - Ratio of unban to tet1 pop.lanlte; different               Yearaf nehaulinZ  ero_ided (firs end second levels) - Total years cf
definiti_na of urban areans ny affeet ronparability of dsts snosg eoeatries.                echeoling; at econdary level, veat.etinl instruction nay be partially or
ro:plenely exclsded.
Mn7e structure ;eercnot) - Children (0-14 yars), working-age (15-64 years),                  sateol enrolment 1% of aecondarha - Iocaoirsei institutions include
and retirnd  (65 rears slid Osar) as per aena sof nod-year papolantio.                      dthehical. industrial at crier proorose ,d,ote, operate independently or as
Age deendeoncs retSo - oS-ia of populatipp nuder 15 and 65 and over to those                  dnpar-.ents of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 thraugh t4                                                                     Adult literacy race III - Litarate adults (able to resd ond write) as per-
iconeoel  depende-cy ratio' Ralo  of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   centage uf tatal adolt populaties aged 15 years and ever.
the labor farte In age gru-y of 15-64 years.
Fonilv slaselec -at       2 tars3L,stdut1ive, thou) - Icalative number of acceptprs        fousin
of hirrh-r-c:, uS  Oriens  ,nd-'r sspies of national frpily placsing prugrac              Persons rer ruee (urban) - Ahutrncnumber of p.rronu per rotm  in oc-upied
since 'srpIin conventional deellings in urban aras; dwellings exclude non-pernanent
Faeily pIannin  -osser  (-/a ut ried ween) - Pectanen of married coaee ef                     strutturro and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing ace (15-44 years) c  use birth-control  devices to all nrried                .occupied dwellings withot pired cater (Y.) - Orcupied conventional d-llings
senicustme afe fgrnap.                                                                      it urban and rural areas witho-t inside or outside piped water facilities
anpretge of aL   cuieddelns
geanloynent                                                        aecees ~~~~~~~~~~~~~to eleericity ( of a.ldl dwttfc;     oorusstldwgtnnar
Total lahr force (chouand: - Eco-iceally sttlve persons, incilding armed                       eleatricity in livini qIartorn an petgst o  tohtiln   inrs    and
fornea and a-nployed but ercludiog housswives, ntudnnts, etc .; definitions                 rural  r.
in varios coautrfes a re rat cnpar.able.                                                  Rural dwellinfs connected to electricity  1) - Computed as above for rural
Labor feoce in acri-sltor  (7.) - Agricultural  labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings oly.
h-ntinf and fishing) en percescage of total labor force.
Une,ployed (Y of lobor foren    - 'neepleynd are oneally defined as persona cho Ch.ons tion
are able and willing to take a Job, out nf a job on a given day, rtmained out             Radio r-ceivers (per thou pop) - A15 types of rneceiers fun radio broadcasts
of a job, and sebking wark fan a specified nini-un perold 00t eaceeding one                 to general public per thousand of papulotion; encluden  unlicenned retciv.e.
week; nay not be cnpanable between countries doe t0  different definitiona                  in councrien and to years when ragistration of radio aets was in effect;
of nn_ployed and aource of data, e.g., espley.ent office statiutlcs,  s_ple                 data fis  encent years nay nut bn conparabl  nioce moai c.outries abolished
ouryeys, cpoaplsary unemplgoyent inlitanae.                                                   iners fag.
er ears9eerthateon) - P'asseng..ger carn cepnine m          otor  earn seating
Incoae distributimon - Percentage of private intone (both io cash and kind)                    less than night parseen; necludes onbolances, hnarses and  Jilitary
reeeived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorent 20%, and poorest 40% of hPuse-                 vethiles.
holds.                                                                                    Elent-icity (klh/vr per  cap) - Annual eo-susption of industrial, cocercial,
public and p     tior  nlnttrifty in hileeatt huaro Pen nepita. genearally
Distribution of land   erahip-  Percentagea  of land owned by weaIthiest 10%                   basn  en pndci-a data,withou.     t alowance for lassna in frida but aLlow
and poorest 10% of land owners,                                                             ifg far imports aod exparts of electricity.
Rewsonnit Ike/yr per conS - Per caPita  on-1e censoption in kilsgn-n
Health and Ngtrition                                                                         re-strast         donsentle praduction piur net imponrta o  neoptiprt.
Populatien per physician - Ppoplatiot divided by nmaber af practicing
physicians qualified frtn  a =edical school at univnrsity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Dages
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mil         %                         1960 *.55           1965 _70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices            28,146       100.0                           1.9                4.9                 7.1
Gross Domestic Investment        6,891        24.5                           3.3               11.5                17.1
Gross National Saving            5,634        20.0                           5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance         -1,257      -  4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            4,738        16.8                           1.5                7.8                 6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            5,533        19.7                           0.2               10.9                27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                    Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Nil                           Mil       ____
Agriculture                      4,221       44.8                 30.5      69.0                   138           65.0
Industry                         1,915       20.3                  3.0        6.8                   638         300.0
Services                         3,279       34.9                  8.3       18.8                  395         185.0
Unallocated                        -          -                    2.4        5.4
Total/Average               .
9,415   100.0                   44W.2                             213         100.055
GOVERNNIT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                       -    % of GDP
1976/77*        1975/76                   1975           1974
Current Receipts                      2,904           2,201                    18.1           17.0
Current Expenditure                   1,613           1,247                    10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                      1,291              954                     7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                  2,070           1,425                    11.7            9.8
External Assistance                     784             492                     4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
INMI, CIRDIT and PRICES                     1971          1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
TBillion Rp  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        469           695          987        1,452        1,995         2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector                 387           333          357          412        1,637        1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector                317           500          908        1,163        1,353        1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quaai Money as % of GDP             12.8          15.2         14.6          14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 = 100)    642              807        1,028        1,370        1,640         1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                            2.6          25.7         27.4          33.3         19.7         14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                   ..          -14.0           7.2        15.4         297.3          7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                  *-           57.7         81.6         28.1          16.3         24.9
NOTEs All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
April 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 4 pages
T1AD3 PADMEITS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMNTS                                                      mERCHANDISE gXPORTS (AVRRAGE 1973475)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mil    %
(Millions USS)    Provisional
Exports:                        4351      4738     6033                 Oil (net)                          1897      50.4
Oil (net)                     2169      2921     3650                 Rubber                              416      11.0
Non oil                       2182     1817      2383                 Timber                              602      16.0
Imports                        -4220    -5533    -6297                  Palm oil                            132       3.5
Resource gap                   131    - 795    - 264                  Tin                                 138       3.7
Factor service:                - 210    - 462    - 781                  Coffee                               99       2.6
Interest                    -  64    ; 178    - 354
Investment income            - 146    - 284    - 427                 All other commodities                483      12.8
Balance on Current Account   -  79    -1257    -1045                         Total                         3767    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        462      497       432              ExTERNA.L DEBT. DECEMBR 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664      2395      2365                                                           US $ Mil
Amortization               -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                     584      2073      1930                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             10,140
Capital Grants                    62       ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   ..
Other Capital (net)           - 126    -2250    - 205                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             - 214    -   46         -_37                                        1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689    - 983        737              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)       1473      590      1494
Net Reserves   (end year)       1472      489      1226                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          4      120       152
of which:  Petroleum           1      116       146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        2169     2921      3650        IBRD/IDA LENDING ,  arch 31, 1977? Million US$
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                         _
Outstanding & Disbursed               254.4       423.5
UNuoh July 1971                 Since  August 1971               Undisbursed                            901.1       138.3
as $1l.OO = Rp 375              US $1.00 = Rp 415                 U          disbursed               1,155.5        863
Rp 1000   = US$2.67             Rp 1000   = US$2.41
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. escluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
April 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1977)
Loan/                                                              US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                            Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year                Purpose                      Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Ten  credits closed                                                   113.4       0.0
155       1969    Agricultural Estates                                16.0        0.1
194       1970    Second Agricultural Estates                         17.0        0.5
195       1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation                    18.5        0.5
220       1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5        0.9
246       1971    Seeds                                                 7.5       1.5
259       1971    Tea                                                 15.0        2.7
260       1971    Second Highway                                      34.0        0.7
288       1972    Second Education                                     6.3        1.3
289       1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.5        0.7
300       1972    Population                                          13.2        6.6
310       1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)                 10.0        0.7
318       1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       2.3
319       1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                   ;     11.0        4.7
334       1973    Second Electricity Distribution                     40.0        4.5
355       1973    Beef Cattle Development                               3.6       1.6
358       1973    North Sumatera Smallholder                           5.0        1.6
Development
387       1973    Third Education                                     13.5        8.4
388       1973    Third Highway                                       14.0        2.8
399       1973    West Java Thermal Power                             46.0       13.2
400       1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.8       7.0
405       1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0        8.1
428       1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.5       10.8
436       1974    Private Development Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI)                                          10.0        6.3
451       1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.0        4.2
479       1974    Bali Tourism                                        16.0       14.6
480       1974    Fisheries Credit                                     6.5        3.3
514       1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0       28.7



ANNEX II
Page- 2
Loan/                                                                (US$ Million)
Credit    Fiscal                                           Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1005      1974    Railway                                     48.0              35.0
1040      1975    Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0               8.0
1049      1975    Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5              12.3
1054      1975    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)    50.0                  24.6
1089      1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0              10.9
1100      1975    Sixth Irrigation                            65.0              60.2
1127      1975    Fourth Power                                41.0              31.9
1139      1976    Fertilizer Distribution                     68.0              20.9
1179      1976    Agricultural Research and Extension         21.5              21.5
1197      1976    National Resource Survey and Mapping    13.0                  12.9
1236      1976    Fourth Highway                             130.0             127.9
1237      1976    Fourth Education                            37.0              36.1
1250      1976    Second Shipping                             54.0              54.0
1254      1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0              42.6
1259      1976    Fifth Power                                 90.0              90.0
1267      1976    National Food Crops Extension               22.0              22.0
1268      1976    Seventh Irrigation                          33.0              31.8
1318      1977    Transmigration & Rural Development          30.0              30.0
1336      1977    Second Urban Development                   52.5               52.5
1337      1977    Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0              32.0
1363      1977    Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.0               15.0
1365 /a   1977    Sixth Power                                116.0             116.0
1373      1977    Nutrition Development                       13.0              13.0
Total                                  1,155.5   561.3  1,039.4
of which has been repaid                 0.9      0.0
Total now outstanding                  1,154.6   561.3
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid   0.0           0.1      0.0
Total now held by
Bank & IDA /b                        1,154.5   561.3
Total undisbursed                        901.1   138.3  1,039.4
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                              US$ Million
Year                                                        Loan   Equity   Total
1971        P. T. Semen Cibinong             Cement          10.6      2.5      13.1
1971        P. T. Unitex                     Textiles         2.5      0.8       3.3
1971        P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles          2.0      0.5       2.5
1971        P. T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable             2.8     0.4       3.2
1972       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles          4.5      1.5       6.0
1973        P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel         Tourism         11.0       -       11.0
1973        P. T. Semen Cibinong             Cement           5.4      0.7       6.1
1974        P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles          2.0      0.3       2.3
1974        P. T. Monsanto Pan               Electronics       0.9      -        0.9
1974       P. T. PDFCI                       Devl. Fin. Co.   -        0.5       0.5
1974       P. T. Kamaltex                    Textile          2.4      0.6       3.0
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong              Cement           5.0      1.5       6.5
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong              Cement            -       1.1       1.1
1977        P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles          0.2       -        0.2
Total                                            49.3    10.4       59.7
Less:  sold or repaid and cancellei              22.3       1.7     24.0
Total held by IFC                                 27.0     8.7      35.7
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                      3.1      0.4       3.5



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has surpassed
the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the rubber
group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report target
for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and investment
planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies and
shortage of funds for investment. The Minister of Agriculture has recently
made the necessary changes in management of the rubber group and the Govern-
ment is expected to review its financial policies, particularly with regard
to dividends.
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed first by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs.
Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The
rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and hydraulically
adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving with
the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than
previous levels. The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds
will finance all outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has
more than doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in
contract quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satis-
factory because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected
during appraisal.
/I These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 220 Third Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by October 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds sub-
stantially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about
twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher
than those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 1l, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Construction of the irrigation infrastructure and the seeds proces-
sing plant has been completed satisfactorily. Land development at Sukamandi
will be limited to about 1,600 ha (65% of appraisal estimates) by the Closing
Date to enable the project authorities to consolidate production and other
operations. Significant results for 1976/77 are expected to be: (a) area
under production - 1,800 ha (58% of the appraisal estimate), (b) yields of
rice seed - 3.5 tons per ha (87%), and (c) production of certified seed -
4,900 tons (42%). Due mainly to the delay in the development of irrigation
infrastructure, and partly to overly optimistic assumptions during appraisal,
the targets for per ha yield and certified seed production will not be
achieved by September 1977. Due to cost escalation and implementation
difficulties, only one seed multiplication district, out of the three planned
at appraisal, has been developed. Based on present levels of production the
National Seeds Corporation (NSC) is not commercially viable and will need
continued financial support from the Government. The future of the project
and of NSC depend on Government policy for the further development of the
seed industry.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: _US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal expec-
tations necessitating construction and rehabilitatiLon of three additional
factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can probably be
advanced. Rising costs are creating pressure on available funds and the main
challenge for the two PTPs will be to reduce working capital requirements,
as well as overhead and indirect costs, and improve labor productivity.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10. 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been relatively
small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work
is completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978
has been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering
of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider
road design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway
betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding
standards for urban portions of the road.
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule because of late
appointment of consultant architects and lack of funds to meet cost overruns.
The main causes of delay have been overcome and significant progress is being
made. All civil works are expected to be completed by September 1977. Furni-
ture and equipment are being delivered. The expert services are virtually
completed. Progress of the fellowship program and teacher training is satis-
factory. The Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost
overruns. Disbursements have improved. Delayed implementation required
postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months to March 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date:  May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work will
be accomplished largely with Government funds. Completion of the project is
expected by September 1978. The Government has therefore, requested that the
Closing Date be postponed to December 31, 1978. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is an
integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors recruited
annually and now covers about 15% of all married women in the reproductive
age group. Implementation of the civil works component is now on schedule;
because of the shift in strategy from static to mobile services, and because
of a large scale Government-financed program to construct and rehabilitate



ANNEX II
Page 7
Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning centers, the Government has
requested a reduction'in the number of centers to be constructed under the
project, to which IDA and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(as partners in jointly financing the project) have agreed.
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: August 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976,
about $700,000 remained undisbursed and the Closing Date has been postponed to
August 31, 1977 to allow time for BAPINDO to submit documents for reimbursement.
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 19713.
At the request of the Government the Clos:ing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide for several new projects of
ship rehabilitation. It is expected that the Crediit will be fully disbursed
by the new Closing Date but that, due to sharply increased costs, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated.
Cr. No. 319  Fourth Agricultural Estates:  US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plantings
of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are growing well. A
hybrid coconut seed garden has been established, the first in Indonesia. PNP X
management needs to pay more attention to cost control and financial planning.
Substantial cost increases have taken place largely due to an expansion in the
size of the program compared with appraisal estimates. The Government has
agreed to provide part of the shortfall in project funding and discussions
with the Government are proceeding on a proposed increase in the budgetary
allocation. PNP X is participating in the execution of smallholder develop-
ment under the Transmigration and Rural Development: Project (Loan 1318-IND)
and the proposed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project.
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result the project is



ANNEX II
Page 8
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31. 1973: Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31. 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major changes
in project scope and objectives, are being prepared for consideration by the
Executive Directors.
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatera Smallholder Development: US$5 million Credit of
February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's goals of oil palm and rubber plantings by smallholder
participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present rate of
progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have increased
from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by completion
date. However, higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and
palm oil and changes in project development techniques have more than compen-
sated the cost increases, and the project's return to the economy is likely
to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. No effective mechanism for the
credit-assisted portion of the project has yet been developed.
Cr. No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed and they are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1976 is well under way. Book delivery
has been improved and teaching equipment has been procured and delivered.
Teacher training continues to proceed on schedule. Project management has
been strengthened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized project
unit, and by recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance contract
signed with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections included
iRvethgeeRioAgiRaysmat§fllfegegfiAX bp 18Zi iSi;ie* r&             fieffl aVvs



ANNEX II
Page 9
and extra amounts of unforeseen work. The project: is 50% complete and the
Closing Date will probably have to be postponed by one year. Project costs
are likely to exceed original estimates by 80% mainly due to sharply escalated
prices. As a :onsequence, the disbursement rate for construction is now in
the process of being lowered. The training program has been successfully
completed.  Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the road bet-
terment program are nearing satisfactory completion.
Cr. No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  August 28, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang were
about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. This, together
with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase in the total
project cost of more than 100%. Government will provide the additional funds
required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets in its financial
recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Fewer than anticipated credit applications have necessitated scaling
down project targets from 10,000 ha to about 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and
from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for estates tea. The demand by farmers for technical
assistance has been encouraging.  Over 3,000 farmers have been instructed in
tea cultivation at village level courses and at the Project Management Unit
(PMU) training center.  The project spin-off has been excellent; about 2,000 ha
of tea were replanted or rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program
but still under the influence of the PMU.  A marketing study indicates that
tea consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically. Tea prices at farm level are
well above appraisal estimates which is part of the reason why farmers have
been reluctant to apply for long-term credit.
Cr. No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The scope of the project has been reduced by the deletion of six
minor rehabilitations from the project description due to cost overruns.
The revised project consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories
and the construction of a new factory together with associated agricultural
development, sugar research and technical assistance components. Due to
late project start-up and delays in arranging consultancy services, project
completion will be delayed by one year. Factory construction and rehabili-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is developing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha earmarked for
the project, about 270 ha had been acquired by September 1976, and 128 ha had
been developed for occupation. Seventy-four factories are located on the
estate of which 37 are operating and 37 are in various stages of construction
or commission. Factory employment is 16,275 and an estimated 1,400 are
employed on average in both factory construction and land development.
Overall, operations are profitable.
Cr. No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2. 1973;
Effective Date: March 6. 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
almost fully committed.
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2. 1974: Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations of project tenders have been approved by IDA. Infrastructure
construction started in July 1976 and completion is scheduled for October
1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the Bali Tourism Development
Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Preliminary discussions with three
potential hotel investors are underway. Promotional efforts to attract addi-
tional investors and tourists have been intensified, and additional flights
from Sydney and Hong Kong to Bali have been approved by the Minister of
Communications and Tourism.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project as a whole has generally been
progressing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



ANNEX II
Page 11
nearing completion. Boat construction is underway and the contract for equip-
ment has been awarded. The quality of lending for fishpond development needs
to be improved although lending for this component in terms of the number of
subborrowers and P-ea covered had met targets envisaged during appraisal.
Bidding for ice plant construction should start soon. The justification for
the trawler subproject is being reviewed by the Government.
Cr. No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract caused a delay of about 18 months in the project
schedule. The first construction contract was awarded in February 1977, the
next four are scheduled for November 1977, and the last two for May 1978.
From a revision of bid prices for the first contract, the total cost of civil
works is now estimated to be about 40% higher than alt the time of the last
review of project progress. The total project cost has increased about 130%
since appraisal in May 1974.
Loan No. 1005  Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  August 16. 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to
poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. The
bulk of the contracts have been signed. Passenger traffic in 1975 was
slightly lower than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic
has continued to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive
power. Efforts are being made to strengthen the effectiveness of the technical
assistance program and to more closely monitor project developments. Although
tariffs were raised in May 1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25%
and freight revenues by about 10%, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate
further, as operating costs have continued to rise at an even faster rate.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs are expected to be about 7%
above the appraisal estimate. The allocation of plots and core houses is
expected to begin in July. Some problems have arisen with regard to the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being
reviewed currently by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14,5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed and the project has reached its construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the
establishment and development of local water enterprises are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the second quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed between the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31. 1978.
The Project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December 1976,
one month ahead of schedule. As there was a slight delay in the completion
of the related gas project, the gas requirement of PUSRI III for start-up
during November 15, 1976 - January 7, 1977 was met by advancing the scheduled
shutdown of PUSRI II for annual maintenance by two months. Meanwhile, the
PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of PUSRI III is expected
to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the first
year of operation. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject
systems are beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance will
be provided in Irrigation VIII to expedite this work. Critical review of the
program for benefit monitoring is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded.  The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed in early 1980.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$30 million were realized in the original project. Procurement of an
additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of fertilizer
output beyond that anticipated at appraisal was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is underway and is likely
to be completed successfully by the revised Closing Date, postponed by one
year.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is one year behind schedule due to problems
in the appointment of executive architects for detailed design and supervision
of construction of the research centers and of the consultant firm which will
provide research and extension specialists. However, the pace of implementa-
tion has recently improved; the contract for research and extension services
was signed in February 1977 and negotiations with the architects are in
progress.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project agency, BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress
since the Loan was signed. Several senior staff required for administration
and project procurement have been appointed and preliminary designs for
project facilities have been comnpleted. Preparation of equipment specifica-
tions and planning of aerial photography operations to support detailed
resource surveys of the southern Sumatera region are also proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 14
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Contracts have been signed or awarded for the construction of the
first package of roads totalling 585 km and for nine consultancy assignments.
Progress is about six to nine months behind the initial project implementa-
tion schedule, mainly due to the unforeseen bunching of many activities
(negotiations for the consultancy assignments, prequalification of contrac-
tors, tendering, etc.) and a general shortage of staff to deal with the
rapidly increasing work load.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980.
Project implementation units have been established and the team
leaders for technical assistance are in place. Contracts with the consultant
architects have been signed.  Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory with some exceptions due to difficult site conditions and higher
site costs. The project is about 10 months behind schedule due to initial
delay in the appointment of consultant architects and signing of agreements
with UN agencies for technical assistance. The problems causing delays are
being followed up with the Government agencies concerned.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980.
The appointment of a number of consultants has been delayed which
could cause a lag in the implementation of the project. The financial
position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, which may
result in financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is aware of this potential problem and is considering steps to deal with it.
The project is being closely followed.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about four months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-October 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.



ANNEX II
Page 15
Loan No. 1259  Fifth Power Protect:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976: Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is underway.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisifactorily.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976;  Effective.Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the prequalification for
contractors and consultants and the project is ahead of schedule in the North
Sadang area, in the mapping program and in preparation of the construction
schedule for tertiary development.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date:  February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The first village has been constructed, and the first settlers moved
from Java in October 1976.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US';52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28. 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Progress is being made in developing Govern-
ment capabilities in undertaking a nation-wide kampung improvement program in
the future.
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976: Effective Date: March 3, 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Final design by consultants is proceeding and the contract for
supply of container cranes has been let.



ANNEX II
Page 16
Loan No. 1363 Second PDFCI Project: US$15 Million Loan of January 28. 1977;
Effective Date: April 21. 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 21, 1977.
Loan No. 1365  Sixth Power Project:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4. 1977.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan is expected to become effective by June 1977.
Loan No. 1373  Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31. 1982.
This loan became effective on March 31, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA: EIGHTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                            $63 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                             20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace,
with interest at 8.20% per annum.
Project Description:               Major components of the project are:
(a)  rehabilitation of 75,000 ha of the
140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system in
East Java, including introduction of
tertiary syst:ems on 30,000 ha;
(b)  construction of flood control and
drainage works and inspection roads on
5,700 ha of low-lying coastal land in
the Ciujung irrigation system in West
Java;
(c)  establishment of a 2,800 ha groundwater
pilot project: at three separate loca-
tions in the Madiun-Solo area.
In addition, the project makes provision for
for consultant services; extension of an
-ongoing audio-visual training program for
operation and maintenance and construction
personnel (includLng necessary buildings);
establishment of a centralized records
depository and reltrieval system for docu-
ments related to Bank-assisted irrigation
projects; production of additional large-
scale maps covering all unmapped areas of
PROSIDA-managed irrigation systems; and
procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Project Costs:                     The table below summarizes the cost of the
project:



ANNEX III
Page 2
% of
Local   Foreign  Total      Foreign Exchange
---- ($ million) -----
Madiun rehabilitation         26.2     22.2    48.4             46
Ciujung drainage               5.4      4.2      9.6            44
Groundwater pilot project      1.4      5.3      6.7            79
Technical assistance           5.3      6.7    12.0             56
Base cost                38.3     38.4    76.7             50
Physical contingencies         8.6      8.4    17.0             50
Expected price increases      12.3     12.0    24.3             50
Total project cost       59.2     58.8   118.0             50
Financing Plan:                   The proposed loan of $63 million would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project plus an estimated $4.2 million of
local costs.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY            1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   Total
Annual              1.6   10.4   18.9   22.7    9.4    63.0
Cumulative          1.6   12.0   30.9   53.6   63.0
Procurement:                      (a)  Vehicles, materials and equipment,
costing about $5.1 million, would be
procured after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. For purposes of bid com-
parisons, qualified domestic manufac-
turers of these goods would be given a
margin of preference equal to 15% or
the level of customs duties, whichever
is less. Small off-the-shelf items
costing less than $10,000 each, up to
an aggregate total of $100,000, would
be purchased through normal Government
procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  Civil works in all project areas would
be divided into a number of suitable
contracts which would be let to pre-
qualified contractors following usual
Government procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Consultants:                      The Government would engage consultants who
would work with the various organizations
involved in project implementation to help
in the preparation of feasibility studies,
detailed design and construction drawings,
and assist in the establishment of the
records and retrieval system and expansion
of the audio-visual training program.
Economic Rates of Return:         The weighted economic rate of return for
Madiun rehabilitation, Ciujung drainage,
and Madiun pilot groundwater development
would be 20%.
Appraisal Report:                 Report No. 1468a-IND, dated May 5, 1977.
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDONESIA
EIGHTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: three years.
(b) Project preparation coordinated by DGWRD.
(c) First presented to the Bank: 1975.
(d) First mission to consider project: May 1976.
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1976.
(f) Follow-up Appraisal: January 1977.
(g) Completion of negotiations: April 25, 1977.
(h) Planned loan effectiveness: September 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank supervision mission is scheduled for September 1977 to
assist in the initial stages of implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Government to ensure adequate staffing of subproject offices and
to consult with Bank before appointing replacements for General
Manager of PROSIDA or General Manager of P2AT (para. 37).
(b) Government to engage consultants by December 31, 1977 (para. 39).
(c)  Disbursements for tertiary systems to be made only if withdrawal
application is accompanied by certificate from the site engineer
stating that quarternary canals and drains iLn the tertiary block
have also been constructed (para. 46).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(d) Operation and maintenance (O&M) (paras. 48, 49 and 50)
(i) Water-user associations to be formed in each tertiary unit at
Madiun and for each well in the pilot groundwater project.
(ii) Adequate O&M funds to be allocated in future years for all
Bank-assisted irrigation systems.
(iii) At least half of all annual budgeted O&M funds to be released
to subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance in
equal quarterly installments until total annual allocated
amounts are fully released.
(iv) Government to progressively increase number of additional
qualified O&M personnel until adequate staff levels have been
attained.
(v) Government to inform the Bank by December 31 of each year the
proposed number of O&M staff and per ha budget for each
subpro-ject; by June 1 of each following year the approved
O&M budget; and by October 1, the staffing provisions.
(e)  IPEDA Rates (para. 51)
(i) Government to adjust rates at levels consistent with bene-
ficiaries' capability to pay.
(ii) Amounts collected to be sufficient to ensure sound O&M
practices and to recover a reasonable portion of capital
costs.
(iii) Rates established and collected for different land classes
to be furnished to the Bank every two years for comments.



IBRD  12633
106 0 E  The b-vd0  e, or hac bAy th ev   TT         >INGAPORE )    >
L                                          h'ortdllfn~~~~~~~~dBkaodris}iata. (f      G &              GKA L IMAN TA NS    Sx,
6 t MCB_ \ t SS LAW  i~
INDONESIA :
I DIANJAA   SEA
IRRIGATION PROJECT 3ZI1    OCEANlo                                                               A V A
CIUJUNG DRAINAGE SUBPROJECT . _________________°
6'00'                                                                         1
\   ½ (-G,Susvka rl
\  t              y  X   /J  A V      A                     ) E    Ai t                              y      s     /
Bojonegaratn                                                                                                            B 
6 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
Main Irrigation Conals
Secondary Irrigation Canals
Roads
---  Roads to be Rehabilitated
Gravel Surfaced Roads on Flood Embankment
-4-f---4--4 Railway
:           Rivers and Main Drains
Secondary Drains to be Rehalbiltated and Constructed
Collector Drains to be Constructed
Main Rivers to be Rehabilitated
r     Inundated Areas
BARRAGE
°.     1      2      3       4      5
KILOMETERS
106°10 E                                                         106'20'
MARCH 1977



IBRD 12634
M. 0oo                                 11 1. 15                             1 1P 30'                            1ll1145'                                              MARCH 1977
INDONESIA
loo                                     ~~~~IRRIGATION  PROJECT  MLI
MADIUN REHABILITATION AND GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
C) Groundwater Irrigation Schemes
c2p)D  Irrigation Service Units
- - Project Boundary
::s::~~~~Ti::~~~~.                           Roads
Corubon ~iIo~    -~          -t----+--Railways
emolong  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   ~''                                                                              -cCRivers
100- Contours in Meters
GROUNDWATER POTENTIAL
)n wa-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  ~~~~IExcel lent730
~~~~~~ ~~~~Good
..::Poor
To    MAIUN  REHABILITATION  INITIAL STAGE  UNITS
To Jogiokarta                                                                                                               15  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pilang Bongo  3oCmrAa
17  Brendil               39  Slcohung
20                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 8  Semen K. B.  43  Sungkur
1 9  Andong Bawah         44  Galokt Bowah
ol~~~~~~~~~~~arjo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  Ketongga Bowoh                                                                                  51  Batil Baowh
20o Ketonggo Alas         55  Brongkal Bawah
N   1 Gondong                56  Catur Bawah
.......       21a Gandong Kerik          70  Notopuro        i
7'45'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 22  Tinil Bawobh                                                                                               76  Mabm Konal
25  Sumber Gr Gaireng  76a Guyung
200    SOO                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27  Kuluhan Bawajh  76b Tej o
44                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~33  Asin Sawah  77  Poncur
34  Cemer Bawah           78  Jungk*e
~~  0*c&.~~~~~~w,, ~~0                     4    8    12   16    20
K tO METE R5
Ac baoad 0*0 A,aov A,h, "'p do -       . 1          ~             
111'00'             1110 15'                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111I 30                -8*'~.   ~*                                .



