Report No. 1468a-IND                                                         FILE  COPY
Indonesia
Appraisal of Irrigation Vill
May 5, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
Thdocumet has a resbtted dstrioton and may be ued by recipents
'ny in the perfrmance of thei ofial dutt0s. Its contents may not
otherwvise'b  iclsed without Vortd Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100              =  US$0.241
Rp 1 million        =  US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                 =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                 =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)      =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"    =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)         =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ARD          -       Agency for Research and Development
AV            -      Audio-visual
BIMAS        -       Bimbingan Hassal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
-        "Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
BRI          -       Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG  -       Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD         -       Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGC           -      Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGFC          -      Directorate General of Food Crops
DGWRD         -      Directcr(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DIP           -      Project Implementation Budget
DP            -      Irrigation Service Unit
ELC-NK       -       Electro Consult - Nippon Koei
GOI          -       Government of Indonesia
HYV           -      High-Yielding Variety
INPRES       -       Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA        -       Iuran Penbangunan Dearah - Land Tax
KUD          -       Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MIHA          -      Ministry of Home Affairs
140A          -      Ministry of Agriculture
NFCE          -      National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M           -      Operation and maintenance
PPL          -       Lower Level Extension Worker
PPM          -       Senior Level Extension Worker
PPS          -       Subject Matter Specialist
P2AT         -       Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah - an executive body within
DGWRD responsible for nationwide groundwater investi-
gations and development
PROSIDA       -      Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
REC           -      Rural Extension Center
SEDEKU       -       Semarang-Demak-Kudus Irrigation System in Central Java
This document has a restrited distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION VIII
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                     i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ......................... .  1
2.   BACKGROUND  ......                             .                        1
The Economy ................. .....                                  1
Agricultural Production . . . . . . . . . . . .   .            . .
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.   THE PROJECT AREA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . s
Climate                 ... . . . . . . . . . . 4
Soils and Topography  ................... . .
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Agricultural Production .............. ...                    . . 5
Storage, Processing and Marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Agricultural Support Program  ............. .       .... 7
Transportation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Operation and Maintenance .............. ...                    .. 7
4.   THE PROJECT .......................... . 8
Project  Works   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    9
Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Status of Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Implementation Schedule ................... . 15
Cost Estimates ....................... . 15
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Procurement ......................... . 16
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Accounts and Audits ..................... . 18
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18



Page No.
5 .   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEIENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Organization   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    19
Agricultural Support Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Monitoring Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Operation and Maintenanc,e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Cost and Rent Recovery ....... . ...........   23
6.    PRODUCTION  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME . . . . . . 25
Production   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    25
Market Prospects .....................    26
Prices   .   ..  .    .    .    .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  26
Farm  Income  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    27
7.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
8.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ANNEXES
1. Climatological Data
2. Agricultural Production
3. Agricultural Supporting Services
4. The Project Works
5. Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6. Consulting Services
7. Cost Estimate
8. Schedule of Expenditures
9. Training
10. Operation and Maintenance
11. Commodity and Fertilizer Prices
12. Crop and Farm Budgets
13. Farm Labor Analysis
14. Economic Analysis
15. Cost and Rent Recovery



CHARTS
8964    PROSIDA Subproject Organization
16008    PROSIDA Management Organization
16017    Water Resources Organization Chart
16940    Estimated Opportunity Cost for Farm Labor:  Ciujung
16941    Estimated Opportunity Cost for Farm Labor:  Madiun
16987    Madiun Rehabilitation, Projected Crop Calendar
Madiun Groundwater Pilot Project, Water Balance Charts
16988    Balong Scheme - Area A
16989    Balong Scheme - Area B
16990    Tanon Scheme
17144    Caruban Scheme
16991    Mtadiun Groundwater Pilot Project, Implementation Schedule
16997    Madiun Rehabilitation Implementation Schedule
16998    Ciujung Drainage Implementation Schedule
17135    P2AT Organization, Madiun Groundwater Pilot Project
MAPS
12631    Location Map
12633    Ciujung Drainage
12634    Madiun Rehabilitation and Groundwater Pilot Project
PROSIDA Mapping
12636    Credit 127-IND
12637    Credit 220-IND
12638    Credit 289-IND
12640    Loan 1100-IND
12641    Loan 1268-IND



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION VIII
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        Agriculture accounts for over 40% of Indonesia's GDP, about 66% of
its employment and nearly 80% of its non-oil exports. Rice, which accounts
for 30% of agricultural production, is the staple food and, throughout the
First Five-Year Plan period (1969-74), Government programs concentrated on
expanding its production. Despite these programs, rice imports continue at a
rate in excess of 1.0 million tons per year, and self-sufficiency in rice has
remained a priority goal of the Government's Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79).
2.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance to
carry out the proposed project, the eighth Bank-assisted project aimed at
increasing domestic rice production. With the exception of one project that
is assisting in the extension of an existing system (Credit 514-IND) and
another (Loan 1268-IND) that is introducing tertiary systems on part of the
areas covered by the first four credits, all the ongoing projects, including
one that was completed in March 1976 (Credit 127-IND), have concentrated on
restoring major engineering works of existing irrigation systems to their
original design capacities in the shortest possible time. Construction works
on the six ongoing projects is progressing well, although rising costs due
to inflation have created budgetary constraints, resulting in delays in the
projects' completion. Operation and maintenance (OS&) services on the com-
pleted systems, which have been unsatisfactory in the past because of the
insufficiency and untimely availability of O&M funds, have improved following
the allocation by the Central Government of substantially higher levels (30%
over 1975/76 levels) of O&M funds in its 1976/77 budget. To upgrade O&M
services to acceptable standards, however, there is further need for even
higher levels of O&M funds, timely release of these funds, and an increase in
the number of qualified O&M personnel to effectively utilize the available
funds. To this end, GOI has agreed to allocate to the Bank-assisted irriga-
tion systems, in FY77/78, O&M funds totaling about Rp 3,350 million, of which
about Rp 2,900 million would be for about 783,000 ha of rehabilitated systems
and the balance of Rp 450 million for about 330,000 ha to be rehabilitated in
the projects' remaining construction period. Although the above O&M funds
are only 10% higher than FY76/77 levels, substantial improvements in O&M
services are expected due to GOI's agreement to take the necessary steps
to ensure that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to
the subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal quarterly
installments thereafter, until the total budgeted amounts are fully released;
and to progressively increase the number of qualified 0&M personnel in
the Bank-assisted projects until the additional numbers to be established by
GOI in consultation with the Bank are employed.
3.        The proposed project would initiate the rehabilitation and improve-
ment of the 140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system, the last major system in
Java that is in need of rehabilitation. Because of GOI budgetary constraints
and the long construction period required to complete rehabilitation of the



- ii -
entire system, the works under the project would be initially limited to
75,000 ha within the oldest and most severely deteriorated systems, including
tertiary development /1 on 30,000 ha of these systems. Planning and design
would continue on the remaining 65,000 ha, which would be rehabilitated at a
later stage when GOI budgetary capability permits. The proposed project
would also assist in: (a) establishment of a 2,800 ha groundwater pilot
project at three separate locations in the Madiun-Solo area, which would be
used to identify and evaluate technical and management alternatives for
conjunctive surface and groundwater development in the area; (b) construction
of a drainage and flood control scheme for about 5,700 ha of the Ciujung
subproject, a coastal area served by an irrigation system that was rehabili-
tated with Bank assistance, but where flooding and drainage problems continue
to inhibit the realization of optimal benefits; and (c) the employment of
consultants to assist PROSIDA /2 in carrying out tertiary designs on
155,000 ha of the Cirebon and Rentang subprojects; extension of an ongoing
audio-visual training program for operation and maintenance and construction
supervision of irrigation facilities, and construction of a training center,
dormitory for trainees and staff housing; establishment of a centralized
records depository and retrieval system and a text processing system for
documents related to Bank-assisted irrigation projects; and production of
additional large-scale maps with 0.5 m contours covering all unmapped areas
of the PROSIDA systems. The project components would require about 3,100
man-months of consultant services, of which 2,600 man-months would be pro-
vided by Indonesian consultants.
4.        The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$118 million
(Rp 48,995 million), of which US$58.8 million or approximately 50% would be
in foreign exchange. The Bank loan of US$63 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project (US$58.8 million) and US$4.2 million of
local costs associated with financing expenditures of local consultants to
the same degree (80% of total cost) as foreign consultants. Vehicles and
equipment (US$5.1 million) would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The construc-
tion of drainage structures in Giujurng and small structures for tertiary
systems, small pumphouses, tubewells, buildings, and housing in Madiun, which
are scattered over a wide area and time span, would not be of interest to
international contractors. This would also apply to the Madiun rehabilita-
tion works, which would be impracticable to group into contracts large
enough to attract international competition, since they consist of a large
number of small, widely scattered and differing construction activities.
These works would, therefore, be carried out by force account (US$14.2
million) and locally advertised contracts (US$80.6 million), suitable for
/1 Tertiary development consists of the construction of tertiary and quater-
nary canals and drains. Although all 75,000 ha would ultimately require
tertiaries, the initial area to be developed under the project was limited
to 30,000 ha due to current GOI implementation constraints.
/2 An agency of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development which
was created to execute IDA-assisted projects.



- iii -
large local contractors and joint ventures of smaller local firms. Consulting
services, mapping and training would cost US$18.1 million. Contingencies
included in the above costs would amount to US$41.5 million, of which US$24.3
million would be for expected price increases during the 4-1/2 year construc-
tion period.
5.        PROSIDA, which completed one and is currently executing four other
Bank-assisted irrigation projects, would be responsible for implementing the
Madiun Rehabilitation and Ciujung Drainage components of the proposed project.
P2AT, another agency of the DGWRD, which is carrying out groundwater investi-
gations in the Madiun-Solo area under Credit 289-IND and Loan 1100-IND, would
be responsible for establishing the Madiun groundwater pilot project.
6.        The economic rates of return on the project components would be 21%
for the Madiun Rehabilitation, 18% for Ciujung Drainage and 13% for the
Madiun-Solo groundwater pilot project. Excluding the groundwater pilot
project, the rate of return on each part of the project under a number of
adverse assumptions would not fall below 14%.
7.        The proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$63 million for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
in rehabilitating and improving existing headworks and canals serving 75,000
ha and introducing tertiary systems /1 on 30,000 ha of the 140,000 ha Madiun
irrigation system, the last major system in Java in need of rehabilitation;
constructing flood control and drainage works and inspection roads on 5,700
ha of low-lying coastal land in the Ciujung irrigation system in West Java;
and establishing a 2,800 ha groundwater pilot project at three separate
locations in the Madiun-Solo area near the provincial boundary of Central and
East Java. This would be the eighth Bank-assisted project for improving and
promoting irrigation development in Indonesia.
1.02      The feasibility study for Madiun rehabilitation (Stage I) was pre-
pared by PROSIDA /2 with consultant assistance (ELC-NK); for Ciujung drainage,
by PROSIDA; and for the Madiun-Solo groundwater pilot project, by P2AT /3 with
consultant assistance (ELC-NK). This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission composed of Messrs. J. T. Caparas, J. J. O'Brien, M.
Saddington, C. J. Poortman (Bank), K. Anderson, A. Feinstein and P. Judd
(Consultants), which visited Indonesia in October/November 1976.
2. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia: Recent Develop-
ments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND), reviewed the
medium- and long-term outlook for the Indonesian economy. That report also
examined the outlook, potentials and problems of Indonesian agriculture. The
main findings of that report are summarized in the President's Report for this
project.
Agricultural Production
2.02      Agriculture, together with forestry and fishing, accounts for over
40% of Indonesia's GDP. The sector also provides part- or full-time employment
for about 70% of the total labor force in Indonesia, and accounts for about
80% of the value of non-oil exports. Over the last five years the volume
of total rural output increased at an average rate of between 4% and 5% per
/1 Tertiary systems consist of tertiary and quaternary canals and drains.
/2 Proyek Irrigasi IDA - Agency of Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD), which was created to execute IDA - assisted projects.
/3 Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah - an agency of the DGWRD that is supervising
groundwater investigations in the Madiun - Solo valleys and other areas
in Indonesia.



annum; however, the volume of rice production, the country's staple food, has
been growing at between 3.5% and 4% over the same period. This growth rate
in supply has not been enough to meet demand, and food grains still need to
be imported. Specific programs to boost rice production have been included
in both of Indonesia's Five-Year Plans (Repelita I covering 1969-74 and
Repelita II covering 1974-79). These programs include rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems, creating rice price support policies, providing
funds for research and extension, and improving the supply of seed, fertilizer,
pesticide and credit. The Bank has been involved in various ways with all of
these programs and the Government's actions have been relatively successful.
2.03      However, despite improvements in production and institutional
support, various studies indicate that unless foodgrain production in
Indonesia can be stimulated to grow at a rate of at least 4% per annum, the
current gap between supply and demand will widen in the future. The Govern-
ment has set its sights on self-sufficiency in foodgrains. However, to
achieve that goal there will be a continued need for adequate supplies of
credit, certified and high yielding varieties of seed, fertilizer and pesti-
cides. In addition, there is a need to improve irrigation facilities and
drying and storage facilities for grains.
2.04      Although production of secondary field crops (palawija) /1 is
believed to have declined during Repelita I partly because of shifts of
land use to rice production, their position remains significant. Under
RepeLika II, their production is being revitalized, and the Government has
extended the BIMAS agricultural support program to several of these crops.
The Government has also begun research to improve palawija crop yields and,
through the INPRES program, construction of market facilities at subdistrict
and village levels.
Project Formulation
2.05      Following nearly thirty years of neglect, virtually the entire
1.5 million ha of Government maint3¶ned irrigation systems, which are located
mainly in Java, were in need of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation work (on
about 1.0 million ha) was started under Repelita I, with about 840,000 ha on
nine major systems being rehabilitated with financial assistance from four
Bank Group Credits. Subsequently, three more projects totaling 150,000 ha
have received Bank Group assistance during the current Repelita. Because of
the large volume of work required on the systems, initial rehabilitation
covered only the most essential aspects to put the systems back in near normal
working condition. This consisted primarily of reconstructing headworks and
weirs, primary and secondary canals and appurtenant structures.
2.06      Aside from extending and rehabilitating existing systems, the
fifth, sixth and seventh irrigation projects provided assistance for the
/1 Palawija crops are those other than rice, sugarcane and estate crops;
major ones are soybeans, corn, casSava, groundnuts, green beans and
vegetables.



- 3 -
development of tertiary and quaternary canal systems to eliminate the
inefficient irrigation practices that required water to travel from secondary
canals over 50 to 100 plots before reaching the farthest fields in the
command area.
2.07      Under the proposed project, GOI would initiate the last major
system rehabilitation on the 140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system. Due to GOI
budgetary constraints and the long construction period required to complete
rehabilitation of the entire 140,000 ha, however, the works to be carried out
under the project are limited to 75,000 ha (Stage I) of the oldest and most
seriously deteriorated systems, and include tertiary development on
30,000 ha /1 of these systems. Planning and design work would continue for
the rehabilitation of the remaining 65,000 ha (Stage II), which would be
implemented under a future project, along with tertiary development on the
remaining 110,000 ha. A pilot groundwater scheme in the Madiun-Solo area
would be constructed to develop techniques for joint surface and groundwater
use and to serve as a guide for other areas of Indonesia.
2.08      There are about 50,000 ha of land within irrigation systems rehabi-
litated with Bank assistance that continue to suffer from excessive flooding
and surface drainage problems which inhibit realization of optimal benefits.
PROSIDA completed a detailed survey, study, and development plan for improve-
ment of a sample area of 2,000 ha with those problems to determine the type,
number and cost of the improvement works required. The results of that study
were extrapolated to the 5,700 ha in the 24,300 ha Ciujung subproject because
of hydraulic and topographic similarities between the two areas, and were
made the basis for appraising the works to be constructed under the project.
For other areas where the sample study data are not applicable, PROSIDA would
carry out sample area studies for each specific area and, depending upon the
results, financing for construction could be considered under future projects.
3. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The Madiun rehabilitation project area is part of the 140,000 ha
Madiun irrigation system in East Java province. It consists of 26 irrigation
systems, varying in size from 140 ha to 11,800 ha, and covering 75,000 ha.
The area includes about 60,400 ha of fully developed and controlled irrigation
systems, about 7,200 ha of less developed and insufficiently controlled
systems, and 7,400 ha of simple or village irrigation. The Madiun River and
its tributaries are the main source of irrigation water. Lesser sources are
the Solo River, its tributaries and springs. The Ciujung drainage project
area consists of 5,700 ha in 16 parcels of irrigated land within the 24,300 ha
Ciujung subproject area in West Java province. Although PROSIDA is currently
/1 Although all 75,000 ha would ultimately require tertiaries, the initial
area to be developed under the project was limited to 30,000 ha due to
current GOI implementation constraints.



-4-
rehabilitating the Ciujung subproject under Credit 220-IND, this Credit did
not provide for the drainage works required on the low-lying 5,700 ha.
Climate
3.02      The climate in Java is tropical and monsoonal.  Temperatures vary
only a few degrees around the annuaL average of 26°C in the lowlands where
the projects are mainly located.  At Madiun annual average temperatures in
the higher lands are slightly lower than 26 C. Improved rice varieties do
not perform well above 500 m, and these areas are better suited for upland
rice or temperate vegetable crop production. Throughout the Madiun project
area, however, the temperature regime is suitable for year round cropping.
Daylight periods are almost constant- throughout the year. The rainy season
extends from November through May (northwest monsoon) and the dry season from
June through October (southeast monsoon). Mean annual precipitation varies
from about 1,600 to 2,000 mm. Further details of climatic conditions in the
specific project areas are given in Annex I.
Soils and Topography
3.03      The MIadiun project area is located on the slopes and flood plain
of the Madiun and Solo river watersheds. It is bounded on the west by a
mountain range containing Lawu mountain, and on the east by the slopes of
Wilis mountain. The Kendeng hills are the northern boundary, and a low range
of hills the southern. Most of the proiect area is located on the valley
floor. The soils are largely of volcanic origin and are mainly alluvial and
grumosols. They range from clay loams through silty clay loams to heavy
clays with good depth, and all have moderate permeability except for the
heavier clays which are highly impermeable. The soils are slightly acid to
alkaline in reaction, and have fairly high organic matter and clay content
and a relatively high cation exchange capacity. Total nitrogen and phosphorus
levels are moderate to low, and all soils show good crop response to nitrogen
application. Many soils respond to phosphate, but the phosphate deficient
areas are not well defined. The lower areas are ideal for rice cultivation,
while palawija crops do better on the higher, well-drained, lighter soils.
3.04      The Ciujung project area is situated on the low, estuary lands of
the Ciujung river. Because of the river's low gradient, it floods all or
most of the project area annually. The soils are alluvial and of volcanic
origin. They are slightly acid, and respond positively to nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizer. Except for the poor surface drainage, they are well
suited for rice growing.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      Rehabilitation of the Madilun area would serve an estimated rural
population of 1.1 million, made up of about 150,000 farm-and 42,000 landless-
laborers-families. At Ciujung, the project would serve about 100,000 people,
consisting of 11,500 farm-and 5,000 :Landless-laborers'-families. The average
family is about six persons.



3.06      Farm size and land tenure data are sketchy.  Information from local
officials suggest an average farm size of 0.5 ha in both project areas. The
following is a rough estimate of the distribution of holdings:
No. of       Cultivated
Farm Size          Farms           Area
(ha)             ------  (%)
Madiun
Less than 0.5           60             27
0.5-1.0             27             33
1.0-2.0             11             31
2.0-5.0              2               9
More than 5.0            -              -
Ciujung
Less than 0.5           64             40
0.5-1.0             25             30
1.0-2.0             10             25
More than 2.0            1              5
3.07      At Madiun, some 80% of the farmers are owner-operators, and 20%
sharecroppers, while at Ciujung an estimated 60% are owner-operators and 40%
sharecroppers. In most sharecropping arrangements, the tenant and the land-
owner equally share total production, and input and harvesting costs. The
tenant provides the labor and the landowner pays the land tax. Landless
laborers comprise some 22% of the rural population at Madiun, and 30% at
Ciujung.
Agricultural Production
3.08      Irrigated rice is the most important crop in the Madiun rehabilita-
tion area. During the wet season, paddy is irrigated on 65,700 ha and
sugarcane on the remaining 9,300 ha. During the dry season the sugarcane
area plus 15,000 ha of paddy are also irrigated. Additionally, 65,500 ha of
secondary crop (palawija crop) are partially irrigated. About 30,000 ha of
the palawija area is planted in April-May, and the remaining 35,000 ha in
July-August. About 9,000 ha of this area follows sugarcane, which is har-
vested from June through August. Soybeans is the major palawija crop. While
cropping intensity varies from 140% in the poorly-watered areas up to 270% in
the better-watered areas, the overall cropping intensity is about 208%.
Farmers plant 80% of their rice areas to high yielding rice varieties (HYVs)
in the wet season, and 70% in the dry season. Average wet-season paddy
yields 3.2 ton/ha,/l dry-season paddy 2.8 ton/ha; early soybeans 0.6 ton/ha,
/1 Present wet-season paddy yields vary from 1.8 ton/ha to 6.0 ton/ha, and
dry-season paddy yields from 1.1 ton/ha to 4.9 ton/ha. On an irrigation
system's basis, average weighted wet-season ields vary from 2.2 ton/ha
to 5.0 ton/ha, and dry-season yields from 2.  ton/ha to 4.0 ton/ha.



late soybeans 0.44 ton/ha; factory sugarcane 100 ton/ha, and farmer sugarcane
70 ton/ha. Although paddy yields are relatively high, they are still below
the area's potential due to poor water management and distribution, inadequate
water supplies and unsatisfactory agricultural input services. While soybeans
are irrigated, most crops suffer moisture stress and are mainly dependent on
rainfall and residual subsoil moisture from the preceding crop. Even though
sugarcane has first priority on available water supplies, farmer grown cane
suffers from poor management.
3.09      At Ciujung, during the wet season, farmers irrigate paddy over the
entire 5,700 ha, and in the dry season on about 850 ha, giving a 115% annual
cropping intensity. Because of flooding during December to February, farmers
usually have to replant, often several times, considerable portions of their
wet season crops. Average wet-season paddy yields 2.2 ton/ha, and dry season
paddy 2.6 ton/ha. The flooding not only reduces yields, increases crop pro-
duction costs, damages irrigation facilities, discourages farmers from using
credit, HYV seed, fertilizer, other inputs, and constructing tertiary and
quaternary canals and drains, but, by extending the wet-season cropping period,
it also reduces the area of dry-season crop farmers can plant. Annex 2 pro-
vides more detail on agricultural production.
Storage, Processing and Marketing
3.10      Farmers sun-dry paddy and store it in their houses.  Insufficient
concrete drying floors makes drying of the wet-season crop difficult, and
losses often occur because of rainfal:! during the drying period.   Since
farmer storage space is not always vermin proof, and cannot be readily
fumigated, losses from rodents and insects are also high. The project areas
have more than sufficient milling capacity to handle current production. For
example, in the Madiun project area farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs) and
private individuals own some 450 rice mills and hullers, with an annual
capacity of 360,000 tons of paddy compared to the current area production of
283,000 tons.  Future increases in denmand for milling capacity can be readily
met. The rice milled is medium grade, around 35% broken.
3.11      At the Hadiun project area, farmers sell about one-third of the
total annual paddy production to BUUD/KUDs and middlemen. At Ciujung, less
than 10% of the total annual paddy crop is sold. The BUUD/KUDs act as the
purchasing agent of the Government's paddy/rice marketing agency (BULOG/DOLOG),
and buy a standard grade of paddy at a fixed floor price. The floor price is
currently Rp 70 (US$0.17)/kg for 14% moist paddy at the village. Although
during nonharvest periods, prices on the open market are usually higher than
the floor price, farmers are often forced to sell their paddy below the floor
price during the wet-season harvest. In some cases inadequate facilities
prevent paddy from being dried to the required 14% content standard. In
other cases, BUUD/KUDs exhaust their credit lines from BULOG and are unable
to obtain cash to pay the farmers. The farmers, who need cash immediately to
meet tax payments or to pay off the last season's debts so that they can
purchase inputs for the new season, are then forced to sell their paddy on
the open market at a discount.
3.12    Farmers sell their surplus palawija crop production in village and
subdistrict markets. Five Government-owned and one private sugar factory at
Madiun handle the processing of sugarcane and marketing of sugar.



-7-
Agricultural Support Program
3.13    The BIMAS program provides farmers with subsidized credit, fertilizer,
agrochemicals; allowances for HYV seed, spraying, and cost of living; and
extension advice for crop production.  At Madiun the BIMAS program covers 75%
of the irrigated wet-season paddy crop, 37% of the irrigated dry-season paddy,
and 5% of the palawija area. At Ciujung it covers 42% of the wet-season
paddy and 6% of the dry-season paddy areas.
3.14    The National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) produces
limited suplies of certified paddy seed. This is distributed through BUUD/
KUDs at Rp 150/kg. At Madiun, seed growers who obtain their planting material
from district seed farms of the Provincial agricultural services supply
practically all available certified seed.
3.15    In all project areas, staff of the Directorate of Food Crops Agricul-
ture within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provide extension services to
farmers. Although all farmers are entitled to extension services, only BIMAS
recipients currently receive extension advice due to the shortage of trained
staff. The National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND) is correcting
this deficiency. Annex 3 gives more details of agricultural support programs.
Transportation
3.16    National highways and railroads connect the Madiun area to Surabaya
and Jakarta, and the Ciujung area to Jakarta. The railway provides reasonably
good passenger service, but offers only limited freight service. The national
highways are paved and generally well maintained. While provincial, district
and village level roads in the Madiun area are in reasonable condition and
generally passable during the wet season, this is not so at Ciujung. Here
the rural road system is in extremely poor condition and, as a result, the
transport of agricultural inputs to, and agricultural production from, the
villages is hindered. Although a Government works program (INPRES) helps in
maintaining some of these roads, upgrading and rehabilitation works would be
necessary to provide adequate transport links within the Ciujung project
area. Additionally, the construction of adequate fertilizer storage at the
village level would help offset poor transport links between the villages and
the district center.
Operation and Maintenance
3.17      Irrigation systems in Indonesia are generally operated at gate
settings established from long experience. Constraints to more efficient
operation are: (a) lack of dependable communications, which would allow
rapid adjustment of canal flows based on local requirements and rainfall;
(b) the unwieldy process of operating large, heavy gates with manpower and
old-fashioned winches; (c) insufficiency of measuring devices in primary
canal intakes and major secondary bifurcations; and (d) shortage of trained
operating personnel. Constraints to effective system-wide maintenance
despite a substantial increase in operation and maintenance (O&M) fund
allocations in FY76/77 (30% above FY75/76 levels) are the untimeliness of



- 8 -
fund releases for this purpose and the insufficiency of maintenance personnel.
Funds provided under the project woulcl correct the above operational deficien-
cies in the project area by assisting GOI in establishing a substantial
telephone communications network, constructing additional measuring devices
near canal intakes and major canal bifurcations, and modifying existing gates
and gate structures to facilitate gate! operation with motor-driven devices.
The proposed project would also address the inadequacies in systems operation
and maintenance resulting from the untimeliness of the O&H fund releases and
the insufficiency of O&M personnel (para. 5.11). Loans 1100- and 1268-IND
and the proposed project would provide overseas and local in-service training
for design and O&M personnel.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would include:
(a)  rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems serving about
75,000 ha in the Madiun area, including 30,000 ha of tertiary
development in these systems (Map 12634);
(b)  construction of a pilot groundwater scheme for about 2,800 ha at
three different locations in the Madiun-Solo area (Map 12634);
(c)  improvement of flood control, drainage and road networks on
5,700 ha of low-lying coastal land in the Ciujung area, which was
rehabilitated under Credit 220-IND (Map 12633);
(d)  technical assistance to PROSIDA for the expansion of the audio-
visual training aids program that was started under Loan 1100-IND,
design of tertiary irrigation and drainage systems by local consul-
tants for 155,000 ha in the 180,000 ha Cirebon and Rentang subpro-
jects, additional large scalea mapping on all PROSIDA project areas
(Maps 12636-12641); a text processing and a centralized records
depository and retrieval systzem for documents related to previous
Bank-assisted irrigation projects; and
(e)  local and overseas in-service training of design and O&M staff
(Annex 9).
4.02      The 140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system consists of 117 distinct
systems served by about 1,200 headworks, 120 km of main canals, 700 km of
secondary canals and about 2,500 hydratulic structures. The 75,000 ha sche-
duled for execution under the proposed project (Stage I) are served by 26
irrigation systems whose headworks and conveyance systems are badly in need
of rehabilitation. The 30,000 ha of tertiaries on these systems would be
constructed to the standards developed under Loan 1268-IND. Tertiary canals
would deliver water to units of about 150 ha. Quaternary canals taking off
from the tertiaries would convey water to units of about 10-15 ha; below
that level, irrigation would be from field to field. Local consultants to
be engaged under the project (para. 4.06) would prepare the design and



- 9 -
construction drawings. PROSIDA would lay out the systems and construct the
control structures. Farmers would excavate the tertiary and quaternary canals
under the direction of PROSIDA, at daily wage rates equal to the prevailing
rates for work done under the INPRES program.
4.03      The groundwater pilot project would consist of the Tanon pilot
scheme in the Upper Solo valley, which would provide a year-round groundwater
supply for about 300 ha of currently rainfed land, and the Balong (1,300 ha)
and Caruban (1,200 ha) pilot schemes in the Madiun valley, which would pro-
vide supplemental groundwater supplies to existing irrigation systems that
currently provide limited dry season surface water supplies. The existing
systems in the Balong and Caruban pilot areas lie within, and would be
rehabilitated and upgraded under, the Madiun rehabilitation subproject. Three
test wells in the Tanon pilot area, which were drilled, cased and tested
during groundwater investigations carried out under Credit 289-IND, would be
converted into production wells by equipping them with turbine pumps and
diesel primemovers. Nineteen new production wells in the Balong pilot area
and eleven in the Caruban pilot area would be drilled and cased under the
project. In addition, the project would provide assistance in equipping the
eight remaining test wells in the study area with diesel engine-driven turbine
pumps, to enable the continuing evaluation of groundwater potential for an
additional 30,000 ha.
4.04      Consulting services, both expatriate and local, would be financed
to provide assistance for the Madiun rehabilitation and groundwater segments
of the project, for design of the Cirebon-Rentang tertiary systems, for
Ciujung drainage construction supervision and for assistance in the audio-
visual training aids program and the records depository and retrieval system.
Total consulting services would amount to about 3,100 man-months, including
about 480 man-months of expatriate and 2,625 man-months of local services.
The details of the consulting services to be provided are discussed in
paras. 4.06 to 4.12 and Annex 6.
Project Works
4.05      Details of the project works are given in Annex 4 and are summarized
as follows:
Madiun Rehabilitation
(a) rehabilitation or reconstruction of 216 headworks;
(b) rehabilitation of 440 km of primary and secondary canals,
including 1,400 structures, channel clearing, and lining;
(c) improvement of tertiary works on 30,000 ha;
(d) improvement of drainage systems;
(e) construction of buildings and housing for O&M personnel;



- 1.0 -
(f) improvement of about 450 km /1 of inspection and access roads;
(g) improvement of 338 km of telephone communications lines for
operation and maintenance; and
(h) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Project
(a) drilling, casing and developing to depths of 100-150 m about
30 wells (19 in Balong and 11 in Caruban) that are expected
to yield 40-75 1/sec and command 55-110 ha each;
(b) procurement and installation of 44 turbine pumps with diesel
primeovers /2, and construction of suitable pumphouses for the
wells;
(c) rehabilitation of about 15 km of inspection and access roads
and construction of 4 km of new roads;
(d) construction on the Tanon pilot area of about 3 km of tertiary
and 15 km of quaternary canals and 3 km of tertiary and 15 km
of quaternary drains;/3 and
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Ciujung Drainage
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of 23 gated control structures,
6 weirs, 21 box culverts, 91 pipe drains, and 6 check dikes,
all appurtenant to existing surface drainage systems;
(b) rehabilitation of about 150 km of existing secondary drains and
construction of about 30 km of secondary and 7 km of primary
collector drains, including raising or rehabiltation of flood
protection and road embankments;
/I  Some 120 km of district roads that are used for access to the project are
maintained by the Kabupatens (Districts) and would not require assistance
under the project.
/2  Six turbine pumps would be spares, iand five turbine pumps would be
installed elsewhere in the groundwater study area to convert existing
test wells into production wells. In addition six turbine pumps would be
procured under Loan 1100-IND to convert the remaining test wells in the
study area into production wells.
/3 Tertiary and quaternary canals and drains for the Balong and Caruban pilot
schemes would be constructed under the Madiun rehabilitation subproject.



- 11 -
(c)  dredging of 7 km of river channel coupled with the reconstruction
or raising of flood protection embankments;
(d)  bituminous surfacing of 5 km of existing road, reconstruction of
five bridges and construction of about 50 km of gravel-surfaced
all weather roads and 150 km of dirt roads along the drainage
embankments; and
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Technical Assistance
(a) Audio-visual Training Aids Program
(i)  extension of an existing contract (NEDECO) for provision of
audio-visual (AV) tape recorded training programs on operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems, including training
of counterpart AV staff;
(ii)  extension of the AV program to cover construction supervision;
(iii) procurement of AV equipment for implementing the program; and
(iv)  construction of an AV training center, dormitory for trainees
and staff housing within the compound of the Ministry of
Public Works Regional Training and Education Center in
Surabaya.
(b)  Cirebon-Rentang - provision of local consulting services to
prepare detailed design and construction drawings for tertiaries
on 155,000 ha of the 180,000 ha service area of these systems,
which is beyond the capability of PROSIDA to accomplish in a
timely manner, and for which construction assistance was provided
under Loan 1100-IND.
(c)  Mapping - on the service areas of the PROSIDA systems and the
SEDEKU /1 irrigation system, consisting of:
(i)  production of aerial photography on a scale of 1:10,000
for 380,000 ha;
(ii)  rectified photo mosaics on a scale of 1:5,000 for abott
450,000 ha; and
(iii) contour mapping on a scale of 1:5,000 with contour interval
of 0.5 m for 800,000 ha.
/1 A system to be financed under a US$35 million loan for the Irrigation IX
project, which was negotiated concurrently with this project.



- 12 -
(d) Records Depository and Retrieval and Text Processing Systems
(i) construction of climate controlled records building
adjacent to the PROS]:DA headquarters in Jakarta;
(ii)  procurement and installation of a text processing system,
and equipment for recording, storing, and retrieving documents
on microfilm and reproduction of stored material; and
(iii) technical assistance for system development and overseas
training of staff in records management.
Consulting Services
4.06      Consulting services (ELC-NK) for preparation of the Madiun Rehab-
ilitation feasibility report, as well as subsequent detailed engineering for
project implementation, are being funded under Loan 1100-IND. Additional
consulting services under the proposed loan would include approximately 125
man-months of expatriate assistance for a feasibility study on Bendo dam and
construction supervision of rehabilitation works on 75,000 ha, and 625 man-
months of local consultant services for detailed design of tertiary systems
on 60,000 ha in the Madiun area to be rehabilitated under the project. From
the 60,000 ha, PROSIDA would select the 30,000 ha to be constructed under the
project.
4.07      Consulting services (also by ELC-NK) for preparation of the Madiun-
Solo groundwater pilot project feasibility study, as well as continuing
groundwater investigations in the Madiun-Solo study area, are being funded
under Credit 289-IND and Loan 1100-INI). Additional consulting services under
the proposed loan would include about 225 man-months of expatriate services
for preparation of detailed design and construction drawings for the pilot
project; supervision of well drilling, installation of equipment, and civil
works construction; operational guidance /1 for two years following implemen-
tation; and feasibility studies for lairge-scale groundwater development
(about 30,000 ha) in the Madiun-Solo study area.
4.08      Consulting services for studies and detailed design of drainage
works (100 man-months expatriate, 40 man-months local) were provided under
Loan 1268-IND for Ciujung, Cisedane, Pemali-Comal (Java) and North Sadang
(South Sulawesi). Under the proposed loan, additional funding would be made
available for approximately 24 man-months of expatriate consultant services
for supervision of construction of drainage works on 5,700 ha in the Ciujung
Subproject.
4.09      A total of about 100 man-months of expatriate consulting service
would be included in the AV training aids program, of which about 50 man-
months would be for the extension of the ongoing program for operation and
/1 Covers operation and maintenance of- mechanical equipment, distribution of
water, determination of consumptive use and monitoring of groundwater
reservoirs.



- 13 -
maintenance training and the remaining 50 man-months, for extension of the
program into the construction supervision field.
4.10      About 2,000 man-months of local consultants' services for the
design of the tertiary irrigation and drainage systems in the Cirebon and
Rentang subprojects would be financed under the project. Construction of the
systems is being financed under Loan 1100-IND.
4.11      For the text processing and records depository and retrieval
systems, eight man-months of expatriate consulting service would be funded
under the project for the identification and analysis of the text processing
and records management problems, supervision of equipment installation and
startup, and staff training.
4.12      To avoid project implementation delays associated with the engage-
ment of consultants, assurances were obtained from the Government that
consultants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged by December 31, 1977
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.13      The Madiun rehabilitation area is supplied principally from the
unregulated flow of the Madiun and Solo rivers and their tributaries, local
springs, and groundwater (less than 10%); in addition, large quantities of
drainage water from higher areas are re-used within the area's complex
hydraulic network. Because of the efficient utilization of return flows, the
system is capable of sustaining a cropping intensity of about 208% (113% of
paddy and 95% of sugar cane and palawija). No additional supplies would be
developed under the project but, compared to the prevailing situation
(Annex 4), the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing system is
expected to bring about a more timely delivery of water and a more equitable
sharing of available supplies, as well as shortages. These improvements
would result from the reduction of losses at diversion points, in canals, and
through spillage; greater conveyance capacity; and better water control.
Details of water supply and demand are given in Annex 5. Results from tests
of water samples indicate that the project water supply is suitable for sus-
tained irrigation of rice and secondary crops. The same sources have been
used satisfactorily for generations. Sediment loads at most diversion points
are high, and the increased desilting efficiency resulting from the project
would minimize the heretofore serious effects of sediment deposition on
system operation, conveyance, and distribution.
4.14      Groundwater supplies in the Madiun-Solo area, although not yet fully
evaluated, are much greater than the quantities required for the pilot project.
Four distinct aquifer systems have been identified, three of which are under
varying degrees of artesian pressure. Although wells driven into these
acquifers yielded only 40-60 1/sec when tested,/l it is projected that some
production wells would yield as high as 75 1/sec. Chemical analyses indicate
/1 Maximum yield of 60 1/sec was dictated by the capacity of the test pump.



- 14 -
quality is adequate to excellent for irrigation purposes. Preliminary
geohydrological findings indicate that groundwater resources are adequate to
irrigate some 30,000 ha on a year round basis.
Status of Engineering
4.15       In the Madiun rehabilitation area, the consultants (para. 4.06)
are currently carrying out detailed engineering and designs for the first
25,000 ha to be rehabilitated under the project. Detailed engineering for
the remainder (50,000 ha) would be completed in phase with the projected
construction schedule over the next 4-1/2 years. Preparation of maps
required for detailed engineering is well underway. Aerial photography and
rectified mosaics for 150,000 ha have been completed. Contracts have been
let for contour maps (scale 1:5,000, 0.5 m interval) needed for the design of
tertiary systems, and these are expected to be finished by mid-1977.
4.16       For the Madiun-Solo groundwater pilot scheme, the consultants (para.
4.07) are currently involved in detailed design to initiate construction of
project wells. Studies are continuing to identify the precise location of the
wells in each of the pilot areas. Topographic ground surveys required to
produce the 1:5,000 scale maps (0.5 m contours), which are needed for tertiary
systems layouts are expected to be started in October 1977 and completed by
hIay 1978. The consultants are currently preparing specifications for topo-
graphic surveys and drilling equipment, including casing, screens, and other
drilling accessories. The consultants have also started the design of pump
houses and irrigation systems for 11 new tubewells. Two additional drill
rigs /1 for project execution and continuing groundwater investigations,
specifications for which were prepared earlier and which were procured with
GOI funds, are expected to be on site by May 1977.
4.17       Detailed engineering for the Ciujung drainage project would be
carried out by consultants to be engaged under Loan 1268-IND. An extension
of the consultants contract to cover construction supervision would be
financed under the proposed project. Aerial photos of 1:6,000 scale are
already available, and 1:5,000 scale photomosaics and topographic maps with
0.5 m contour intervals are under preparation and expected to be completed in
June 1977. Supplemented by ground surveys for individual structures, channel
profiles and cross sections in extremely flat areas, the maps would be fully
suitable not only for the proposed works but also for possible future tertiary
irrigation and drainage designs./2
/1 The rig used during groundwater investigations in the study area would
be kept on site and employed during project execution.
/2 There would be no tertiary development under the drainage project because
part of the Ciujung area is covered by the tertiary construction program
under Loan 1268-IND. Areas not covered under that loan would be included
in a future tertiary development project.



- 15 -
imp1 ementation Schedule
4.18      Implementation schedules for the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung
drainage are presented in Charts 16997 and 16998; for Madiun groundwater, in
Chart 16991. The rehabilitation of the Madiun systems would start with
25,000 ha in the 1977 dry season, and the rehabiltation of the remaining
50,000 ha would extend through the dry season of 1981. Construction of the
Madiun-Solo groundwater pilot schemes would be started during the 1977 dry
season, but on site work would be confined to the preparation of access to,
and surface preparation for drilling at the designated well sites. Because
of the lead time required for these preparatory works, as well as the
acquisition of well casings and screens, major construction activity would
not be carried out until the 1978 dry season. Some wells would start to go
into final operation during the 1980 dry season. Monitoring of the yield
potential of acquifers in the pilot areas, based on the performance of
production wells, would continue up to September 1982. Since consultants for
the Ciujung drainage have just been engaged, the first year's work will
consist of items requiring a minimum of planning, such as road rehabilitation
and river improvement, which would follow existing standard designs and use
PROSIDA equipment. Construction is expected to be completed during the
fourth dry season, in 1980.
Cost Estimates
4.19      The total project cost is estimated at US$118 million, of which
US$58.8 million, or about 50%, is the foreign exchange component. PROSIDA
extrapolated the civil works quantities for Madiun from a sample area of about
20,000 ha (27% of the total rehabilitation area) and for Ciujung, from a
sample area of about 2,000 ha (35% of the drainage area), and estimated these
subprojects' costs by applying to the extrapolated quantities the actual unit
costs of similar ongoing works in Java. P2AT estimated the civil works quan-
tities for the groundwater pilot project from the entire pilot area, and esti-
mated this subproject's cost by applying to the estimated quantities the unit
costs of similar ongoing works in the Madiun-Solo area. Based on experience
with previous irrigation projects in Indonesia, the following adjustments in
the estimates were introduced during appraisal: (a) the base estimates were
increased for some civil works items (excavation, fill, canal lining, concrete,
masonry, desilting, etc.); (b) all cost estimates were updated to end-1977
prices; and (c) physical contingencies of 10% were applied to miscellaneous
services, which can be estimated to about 10% accuracy, and 25% to the reha-
bilitation and drainage components whose costs have been based on sample areas,
and where experience from the ongoing irrigation rehabilitation projects has
shown that substantial additional work is likely to be required after the
existing structures are dewatered. The cost estimates also include an allow-
ance for expected price increases during project execution (26% of base cost
plus physical contingencies), which are based on the following annual infla-
tion rates projected from a large number of civil works contracts in the
irrigation sector in Indonesia:
(a) Civil works -- 20% in 1977, 15% in 1978-1979 and 12% in 1980-1982;
(b) Equipment and services -- 7.5% in 1977-1979 and 7% in 1980-1982.



- 16 -
Costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts signed in
Indonesia for similar services with local and foreign firms. The direct
costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas allowance and company
overhead and fee) amount to about US$65,500 per man-month. Including indirect
costs (travel, housing, office and miscellaneous expenses), the total cost
would be about US$8,000 per man-month.. By comparison, total costs of local
consultants amount to about US$2,000 per man-month.
4.20      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 7 and are
summarized in the table on the following page.
Financing
4.21      The proposed loan of US$63 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project (US$58.8 million) and US$4.2 million of local
expenditures associated with financing expenditures for local consultants to
the same degree (80% of total cost) as foreign consultants. It would cover
about 53% of total project costs and about 7% of local costs. GOI would
provide in a timely manner, the remaining Rp 22,800 million (US$55 million)
to PROSIDA and P2AT out of annual budget appropriations.
Procurement /1
4.22      Vehicles and equipment for construction and operation (US$5.1
million) would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation 'of bids.
Small off-the-shelf items costing less, than US$10,000 each and limited to a
total of US$100,000, which are not suitable for international competitive
bidding, would be purchased locally through normal Government procurement
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. There are sufficient supplies
of such goods to ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and
equipment exceeding US$100,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for
review before bidding and award. Mapping (US$5.5 million) would be carried
out under locally advertised contracts following usual Government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. There are enough mapping contractors in
Indonesia to assure adequate competition. Consultant services (US$12.6
million) would be procured in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 17 -
IRRIGATION COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---- Rp Million -        --- US$ Million ----  --- %
iAadiun rehabilitation 10,875   9,220  20,095  26.2    22.2        48.4     46
Ciujung drainage        2,245   1,740   3,985   5.4       4.2       9.6     44
Madiun groundwater
pilot project           570   2,135   2,705   1.4       5.1      6.5      79
Technical Assistance   2 195   2,790   4,985   5.3        6.7      12.0     56
Base cost         15,885  15,885  31,770  38.3    38.2       76.5      50
Physical contin-
gencies               3,575   3,565   7,140   8.6       8.6     17.2      50
Estimated price
increases             5,105   4,980  10,085  12.3    12.0       24.3      50
Total project
cost            24,565  24,430  48,995  59.2    58.8    118.0        50
4.23      The construction of drainage structures in Ciujung, small structures
for tertiary systems in Hadiun and small pumphouses, power station buildings
and tubewells for the groundwater pilot project, which are scattered over a
wide area and time span, would not be of interest to international contractors.
This would also apply to the Madiun rehabilitation where it would be imprac-
ticable to group the project works into segments large enough to attract inter-
national construction interests. The work is spread over 75,000 ha in 26
separate service units with a considerable variety of work among the units.
The preparation of detailed designs, construction drawings and specifications
can be most efficiently accomplished by concentrating on the work in each
service unit and combining several units in each construction contract.
Groupings large enough in capital cost still would be unattractive to inter-
national contractors because they would consist of a great number of rela-
tively small and disparate construction activities scattered over a wide
area. These works would therefore be carried out either by force account
(US$14.2 million) or locally advertised contracts (US$80.6 million) following
usual Government procedures. Local contracting procedures were reviewed
under the seven Bank Group projects and are acceptable with the following
changes agreed upon by the Government: (a) except for tertiary canals and
structures, the works would be divided into a number of suitable contracts
(minimum size US$125,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint
ventures of small local firms to bid within the categories or classes for
which Government regulations require them to be prequalified; (b) to minimize



- :18 -
late construction starts early in the dry season, invitations to bid for such
contracts would be issued as bid documents are completed, and bids would be
received and processed without waiting for the project implementation budget
(DIP) to be signed, but contract award and signing would be done after the
DIP is approved; and (c) price escalat:ion clauses, which are not normally
provided in local civil works contracts, would be included in contracts
extending beyond one year. For contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 and
above, documents would be submitted to the Bank for review before tendering
and award.
Disbursements
4.24      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of training and of directly imported vehicles and equipment,
95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, 65% for locally
procured imported equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expendi-
tures for locally procured vehicles. Disbursements for both foreign and
local consultants would be at 100% of total expenditures to encourage the
use of local consultants and to enable the executing agencies to engage
consultants expeditiously, since prior budgetary allocations would not be
needed. Disbursements for civil works, including tertiary systems, would
be at the rate of 60% of total costs. Disbursements for tertiaries would,
however, be made only if the withdrawal application is accompanied by a
certificate from the site engineer stating that the quaternary canals and
drains in the tertiary block (four tertiary systems of about 150 ha each)
had also been constructed. Disbursemen,ts for force account works would be
made against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would
not be submitted to the Bank for review but would be retained by the borrower
and made available for inspection by the Bank's supervision missions. Dis-
bursements for mapping would be at the rate of 80% of total expenditures.
In consultation with the Bank, savings under the project would be used to
finance similar additional works in the project area.  The estimated schedule
of expenditures on the project and the disbursement schedule are presented in
Annex 8. Although disbursements would be about 98% complete by March 31,
1982, the loan would be kept open until March 31, 1983 to enable disburse-
ments to be made against consultants services for monitoring the yield
potential of acquifers and completing feasibility studies for large scale
groundwater development under the Madiun groundwater pilot project.
Accounts and Audits
4.25      The accounts of PROSIDA and P2AT are audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) the above agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project; (b) auditors acceptable to the Bank would be engaged to audit these
accounts; and (c) audited financial statements, together with the auditor's
comments and opinion on the certificates of expenditure for force account
works, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.26      Three elements of the proposed project would have physical environ-
mental impacts: Madiun irrigation system rehabilitation, Madiun groundwater



- 19 -
pilot project, and Ciujung drainage. The areas embraced by all three elements
have been under cultivation/irrigation for many generations, thus the basic
land use would not change appreciably in character, although the quality of
agricultural activity would improve with more intensive and viable usage
following implementation of the project.
4.27      For the Madiun rehabilitation and groundwater pilot project, there
would be some temporary disruption of the flora and fauna cycles in the
immediate vicinity of the construction activity. Because of the tropical
character of the area, however, disturbed areas would be restored to their
natural condition within a year without any special effort being made. The
quality of life in the project area would be significantly improved for the
human population of the area with the project as opposed to a continuing
degradation in quality of life without the project.
4.28      In Ciujung, some areas that are now swampy, marshy or inundated
with water for varying periods of time due to excessive flood or drainage
flows would be restored to a quality more adaptable to man's use for food
production and construction of homesites and roads. The project works would
lessen the dislocation of families or entire villages due to flooding, stabil-
ize agricultural production, render transportation less subject to inter-
ruption, and improve the quantity and quality of domestic water supplies.
Given adequate maintenance of facilities incorporated in the project, the
abovementioned changes in land and waterway use and character would be
permanent, but not irreversible.
4.29      There are no known unique environmental factors in any of the areas.
Physical damage to the environment due to the construction activity would
be minimal and short lived. The impact upon the human environment would be
positive in every instance. There is no present occurrence of schistosomiasis
in the project areas, and mosquito breeding areas that currently exist would
be reduced as a result of the project works.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
5.01      PROSIDA, who completed rehabilitation works under Credit 127-IND and
is currently in charge of works under Credits 220, 289-IND, and Loans 1100
and 1268-IND, would implement the tertiary construction and rehabilitation
works in Madiun, flood control and drainage works and inspection roads in
Ciujung and the technical assistance component under the proposed project.
It would carry out day-to-day supervision of tertiary construction and
rehabilitation works in Madiun through its Madiun subproject office, which
was strengthened with the assignment of experienced personnel drawn from
PROSIDA subprojects that are nearing completion. Direction of drainage works
at field level in Ciujung would be carried out through its subproject office
in Ciujung, which was strengthened under Credit 220-IND. P2AT, who supervised
the investigation of the groundwater potential of the Madiun area under
Credit 289-IND, would implement the establishment of the Madiun groundwater
pilot project. Direction at field level would be done through its Madiun



- 20 -
subproject office, which was established and gradually strengthened under
Credit 289-IND and Loan 1100-IND. To ensure good coordination of the works
within the overlapping service areas of the groundwater pilot project and
Madiun irrigation system, the DGWRD has appointed a common PROSIDA and P2AT
subproject manager and deputy subproject manager in Madiun. Chart 16017
shows the DGWRD general organization; Chart 16008, the PROSIDA management
structure; Chart 8964, the typical PROSIDA subproject organization; and Chart
17135, the P2AT subproject organization.
5.02      With its long experience in executing Bank-assisted projects,
PROSIDA should have no difficulty in implementing its part of the work with
the assistance of consultants. Similarly, P2AT is expected to have no diffi-
culty in establishing the groundwater pilot project with the assistance of
consultants since this would be an extension of the groundwater investigations
it started under Credit 289-IND. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that: (a) the PROSIDA and P2AT subproject offices involved in project
implementation would be adequately staffed; and (b) GOI would consult with
the Bank before appointing a replacement for the General Manager of PROSIDA
or for the General Manager of P2AT.
Agricultural Support Services
5.03      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), and
Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC) would supply supporting services
in the project areas consisting of research and extension; credit; HYV seeds,
fertilizer, and pesticides; and storage and processing facilities. These
services would need to be improved to maximize benefits from the project.
Since many problems in agricultural supporting services, however, extend
across the entire agricultural sector, and must be solved on a sector-wide
basis, this project is unsuitable to provide solutions for them. Neverthe-
less, some existing Bank-assisted projects, and ongoing GOI programs, would
rectify some of the problems, and help to improve others. The Bank also has
been discussing with GOI the introduction of several other programs to
improve agricultural supporting services, such as building village fertilizer
stores, upgrading the management and operation of farmer cooperatives, and a
second seeds project. The recently introduced National Food Crops Extension
project (Loan 1268-IND) would intensify and expand extension services by
reorganizing and increasing the number of field extension workers, and by
rehabilitating and/or constructing rural extension centers for about every
ten village units (10,000-12,000 farmers). The Agency for Research and
Development (ARD), established under Loan 1179-IND, would conduct paddy and
palawija crop research at the National Research Centers for Paddy and Secon-
dary Crops in Sukamandi, and at Tegalgondo Seed Improvement Center, a field
station located near the Madiun project area. Domestic fertilizer production
would continue to grow with assistance from the Bank Group (Credit 193-IND
and Loan 1089-IND), and the Fertilizer Distribution Project (Loan 1139-IND)
would aid fertilizer distribution from the national to the district level.
5.04      At full development, demand for fertilizer would rise from its
current level of 18,000 tons to 23,000 tons/year at Madiun, and from 600 tons



- 21 -
to 1,800 tons/year at Ciujung. The existing fertilizer supply channels
could handle the increased demand, and the repairing and upgrading of sub-
district roads under the INPRES program, would help improve the distribution
efficiency at the village level. The demand for certified rice seed would be
800 tons at Madiun and 80 tons at Ciujung at full development. To meet these
targets, the quality of local seed growers' production would be upgraded
under the Provincial agriculture services ongoing work. After project com-
pletion, production credit requirements would also rise. At Madiun the
annual project area short-term production credit needs would increase from
about Rp 1,900 million to Rp 3,000 million, and at Ciujung from Rp 90 million
to Rp 180 million. While BRI would be able to supply these funds, it would
have to increase its field staff to avoid delays in processing and issuing
the credits. BRI has been gradually improving its service to farmers and it
is expected to continue doing this, and provide the required field staff. To
ensure that farmers' needs for advice, credit and agricultural inputs would
be provided for in the project areas, assurances were obtained that GOI
would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit and agricultural
inputs (including fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and certified seed) are
made available at the village level in all project areas.
5.05      The Provincial Irrigation Services and the Ministry of Home Affairs
would form farmer groups (water-user associations) for extension, production
planning, water management, and tertiary and quaternary unit construction in
each tertiary unit. As they would be vital in synchronizing crop calendars
and water supplies, assurances were obtained from GOI that a water-user
association would be formed for each tertiary unit in the project areas to
participate in the unit's construction and to take over its operation and
maintenance after project completion.
Monitoring Benefits
5.06       Project benefits accruing from irrigation and drainage develop-
ments, together with other social aspects, would be monitored in accordance
with the monitoring system set up under Loan 1100-IND (Irrigation Project VI
appraisal report). Funds to carry out this work would be provided under a
subsequent Bank-assisted project.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      PROSIDA would be responsible for the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of tertiary systems and primary and secondary irrigation works in
Madiun during construction. For one year after construction, PROSIDA would
continue to operate and maintain the works to ensure that all defects are
corrected and needed repairs are made before the systems are formally turned
over to the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service. Thereafter, the Provin-
cial Irrigation Service would assume responsibility for operating and main-
taining the primary and secondary systems. The responsibility for operating
and maintaining tertiary systems of about 150 ha each would shift to tertiary
water-user associations in these systems, which would collect 40-50 kg of
paddy per ha from all beneficiaries to meet the full O&I costs. This is
currently being done on a number of pilot tertiary systems and, in nearly all
cases, the systems are being adequately maintained.
5.08      PROSIDA would be responsible for O&M of the Ciujung flood control
and drainage works and inspection roads during, and for one year after



- 22 -
construction, to ensure that all works are properly operating before they
are formally turned over to the West: Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
The Provincial Irrigation Service would, thereafter, assume responsibility
for operating and maintaining the internal drains and inspection roads along
embankments of these drains; the DGW4RD's Directorate of Rivers, the main
drainage channels; and the Kabupaten (District) the district and village
roads in the project area.
5.09      P2AT would operate and maiLntain all works, including tubewells,
pumps and diesel primemovers, during, and for the three-year transition
period following the establishment of the Madiun-Solo groundwater pilot
project, to ensure that all elements of the project are functioning properly
before they are formally turned over to the East Java Provincial Irrigation
Service. GOI would wholly or partly subsidize the pilot project's operation
during the transition period, depencling upon the project beneficiaries'
capability to meet the O&M costs.
5.10      Within the first year after project completion, the local govern-
ment and the Provincial Irrigation Service would form a water-user associa-
tion for each well.  During this period, P2AT would operate and maintain the
pumps and diesel engines and train the Provincial Irrigation Service's
operating personnel. It would also assess the organizational needs and
establish the operational and maintenance standards, the minimum farm
operating unit, suitable cropping patterns, the optimum mix between surface
water and groundwater supplies and the irrigation fees required to meet full
O&M and replacement costs of the operating units. No O&M charges would be
levied at this time, but at the start of the second year, and continuing to
the third year, the Provincial Irrigation Service, through the water-user
associations, would begin collecting irriation fees based on the beneficiaries
capacity to pay to cover part of P2AT's operating expenses. At the end of
the third year, P2AT would turn over to the Provincial Irrigation Service all
the operating and service facilities, but it would continue to provide
technical guidance and effect all major repairs. To ensure satisfactory O&M
services and reasonable cost recovery, assurances were obtained from GOI
that: (a) a water-user association would be formed for each well not later
than one year after the completion of each pilot scheme; (b) one year after
the completion of each scheme, the water-user associations would establish
and collect from all beneficiaries fees in amounts that would be gradually
increased during the first five years of well opertion to ensure sound O&M
practices; (c) not later than June 30, 1981, GOI would furnish to the Bank a
report on the groundwater pilot project's implementation, including an assess-
ment of the beneficiaries' capability to contribute to the project's replace-
ment cost and its proposals for collecting such contribution from the bene-
ficiaries; and (d) based on this assessment, GOI would cause the water-user
associations to establish and collect from all beneficiaries such charges as
shall be agreed with the Bank.
5.11      Although there have been some improvements in O&M services in the
completed and ongoing irrigation projects, there is still a need for more
trained staff, as well as an increase in O&M budgetary allocations. This
fiscal year's per hectare allocations for rehabilitated and unrehabilitated
systems, which were established jointly by GOI and the Bank are about 30%



- 23 -
higher than last year's levels. The increase in O&M funding is reflected in
the ongoing projects maintenance programs that were reviewed by the Bank's
supervision missions in August and November, 1976. Despite the commitment of
substantially higher levels of O&M funds, however, the major constraint to
the improvement of O&M services is the untimeliness of fund releases for this
purpose. Last year, significant fund releases to most subprojects were not
made until the second semester of the fiscal year (rainy season), when little
maintenance other than urgent repairs could be done. The subprojects obtained
permission to use the carry-over funds during the first quarter of the current
fiscal year to meet operating expenses and carry out needed repairs. Due to
delays in the signing of the DGWRD budget, the subprojects did not start oper-
ating with funds released from the current budget until August 1976. Because
total releases of FY76/77 funds as of September 30, 1976 amounted to only
5%-8% of the subprojects' budgets, however, no appreciable system-wide main-
tenance could be done although most systems had been out of service and ready
for repairs for some time. To enable the subprojects to operate efficiently
and to carry out timely and effective system-wide maintenance in the dry
season, GOI has agreed to allocate to the PROSIDA, Jatiluhur and SEDEKU
systems in FY77/78, O&M funds totaling about Rp 3,350 million (Annex 10,
Table 2) for about 783,000 ha of rehabilitated systems (Rp 2,900 million);
90,000 ha to be rehabilitated in FY77/78 (Rp 120 million); and about 240,000
ha to be rehabilitated in the projects' remaining construction period (Rp 330
million). Although the above O&M funds are only 10% higher than FY76/77
levels, a substantial improvement in O&M services would be realized if they
are released in a timely manner and additional qualified O&M personnel are
employed to ensure that the available funds are effectively utilized.
Therefore, assurances were obtained from the Government that: (a) adequate
O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and actual needs, would be
allocated in future years for all Bank-assisted irrigation projects; (b) GOI
would take the necessary steps to ensure that at least half of the budgeted
O&M funds would be released to the subprojects by August 15 of each year and
the balance, in equal quarterly installments thereafter, until the total
amounts are fully released; (c) to upgrade the standard of O&M services and
to effectively utilize the available funds, GOI would progressively increase
the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted projects until the
additional numbers to be established by GOI in consultation with the Bank are
employed; and (d) GOI would inform the Bank by December 31 of each year of
the proposed number of O&M personnel and per hectare O&M budget for each
subproject; and (e) by June 1 of each following year, it would submit the
approved O&M budget and by October 1, the staffing provisions.
Cost and Rent Recovery
5.12      Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) and, depending on
the intensity of on-farm irrigation development, water charges for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the secondary
turn-out. IPEDA is collected by village heads, and turned over to local and
provincial administrations for use in public services. However, it can be
considered a direct project tax which contributes towards the operation and
maintenance, plus capital repayments, of the main irrigation system. Since
IPEDA is assessed as a percentage of the value of production, the amounts



- 24 -
collected would increase as crop yields rise in response to the project. A
GOI interministerial committee has recommended that part of this increase in
IPEDA should be used to cover annual operating and maintenance costs of the
irrigation works that were rehabilitated or constructed. Additionally, as a
result of a recent GOI decision to tie disbursements under its local infra-
structure development program (INPRES) to IPEDA collection performance, IPEDA
collection rates have improved markedly. Present and expected future levels
of IPEDA and water charges rates in the two project areas are as follows (in
1977 prices):
Madiun                          Ciujung
With                              With
Present  Project /a  Increment   Present  Project  Increment
--------- (Rp '000) ----------   ------- (Rp '000) ---------
IPEDA                 7         12           5            4        9          5
Water charges         -          3.9         3.9          -        1.5        1.5
Total            7         15.9         8.9          4       10.5       6.5
Cost recovery (%)               28                                 9
Rent recovery (%)             13-100                              4-34
/a With project refers to full agricultural development in 1987. In future
without project IPEDA and water charges are assumed to remain at the
present levels (1977 prices).
5.13      Water-user associations at t:he tertiary canal level in Indonesia
have traditionally contributed a portion of their crop to the water master
(ulu-ulu), or he has received the use of an area of village rice land, in
payment for his services. As tertiary, and quaternary canal and drain
development has occurred under Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the
irrigators have increased their contributions to cover all operation and
maintenance costs for the tertiary/qua.ternary unit. The amount of this
water charge varies according to the degree of development of the tertiary
unit.
5.14      Assurances were obtained that GOI, in -accordance with its laws
and regulations, would collect the adjusted IPEDA based on the increased
productivity of all irrigated land rehabilitated and constructed under the
project; amounts to be collected would. be sufficient to ensure sound O&M
practices and to recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs during the
projects useful life, taking into account farmers' incentives and capability
to pay; and it would submit to the Bank for review every two years the IPEDA
rates collected for different land classes.



- 25 -
5.15      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits under the project, cost and rent recovery indices
have been calculated (Annex 15). The cost recovery indices are 28% for Madiun
rehabilitation, and 9% for Ciujung drainage. Rent recovery indices were cal-
culated for owner-operators and sharecroppers on 0.2, 0.5 and 1.3 ha farms at
Madiun; and on 0.3 and 0.8 ha farms at Ciujung. They indicate that at Madiun
owner-operators would pay from 74% to 100% of their project rent in incremen-
tal project charges, and sharecoppers from 13% to 31%; wile at Ciujung owner-
operators would pay from 31% to 34%, and sharecroppers from 4% to 6%.
5.16      The project charges in the Madiun area are considered satisfactory.
At Ciujung, even though owner-operators would have rent recovery indices
less than 50%, no increases in charges are proposed as some 90% of the proj-
ect area farm families at present have per capita incomes below the absolute
poverty level of US$95 (1975 prices). At full project development, some
70% of all farm families' per capita incomes would still be below this
figure. Besides paying a substantial total land tax (Rp 9,000 (US$22)/ha),
irrigators would pay at least 10% of their gross value of production in
village taxes (Annex 15, Table 1). As well, they would contribute to the
social life and welfare of the village through religious taxes and compulsory
feasts. Since even at full project development practically all sharecropper
families would have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level, the
low rent recovery indices for this group are appropriate.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The project would increase agricultural production through higher
yields in all project areas, and at Ciujung, a more intensive cropping
pattern.  The net irrigated areas, however, would remain unchanged in both
project areas. Reduced flooding in Ciujung would shorten the wet-season
cropping period for paddy and thus allow increased planting of dry-season
paddy. The annual cropping intensity would increase from 115% to 140%. At
Madiun, however, it would remain at around 208%. Additionally at Madiun, as
cane areas already have first priority on available water supplies and the
sugar industry is implementing other developments outside this project, the
project would not increase sugarcane production. As a result of better water
control and distribution, a strengthened and improved extension service, and
farmers using better quality rice seed, at full development paddy yields
would average 4.2 ton/ha /1 in the wet season and 3.8 ton/ha in the dry season
at Madiun; and 3.6 ton/ha and 3.8 ton/ha at Ciujung. Early soybeans would
average 0.8 ton/ha and late soybeans 0.63 ton/ha at Madiun. Farmers would
achieve these yields five years after adequate and reliable irrigation is
established. Additionally, Madiun dry-season yields allow for water short-
ages, more severe on the palawija crops than the paddy area, and Ciujung
/1 Composite yield: 40% (30,000 ha) of area equipped with tertiary and
quaternary facilities yielding 4.5 ton/ha; 60% (45,000 ha) of area
without tertiary and quaternary facilities yielding 4.0 ton/ha.



- 26 -
yields assume minimum tertiary, and no quaternary, canal development.
However, all average crop yields could be higher, providing GOI could
sufficiently expand the necessary agricultural supporting services, in
particular the availability of short-term production credit, adequate and
timely distribution of fertilizer at t'he village level, crop protection
services, grain drying floors, and an adequate network of properly maintained
rural roads. At full development, about six years after completion of
project works, annual paddy production would reach 335,000 tons compared to
254,000 tons at present in Madiun; and 29,000 compared to 15,000 tons at
Ciujung. Annual soybean production would reach 46,000 tons compared to
34,000 tons at present in Madiun. Annex 2 gives details of present and
future crop yields and production.
Market Prospects
6.02      Self-sufficiency in rice is a major Government goal.  Indonesian
rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for many decades. Since
1968, imports have ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million tons.  According to
Government estimates of future demands, 0.6 million tons of imported rice
would be needed in 1978, and substantiial imports would continue to be required
in subsequent years. Thus, no difficu'lties are foreseen in marketing the
additional paddy from the project areas. Much of the incremental production
from M4adiun and Ciujung would be consumed at the farm level, and the balance
would be marketed in the Surabaya and Jakarta areas respectively. Palawija
crop production at Madiun would be marketed locally or in the Surabaya area.
Prices
6.03      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued in end-1977 prices. For rice, soybean, sugar and
fertilizers, these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's
forecasts for world market prices, and adjusted for transportation costs.
Only an estimated 10% of rice production from the project areas would be
milled into high-grade rice (5% brokens); 60% would be medium-grade (25-35%
brokens); and 30% would be low grade (42% brokens). Using this quality mix
and the world market price forecasts, the equivalent economic farm-gate price
for paddy would rise from US$144/ton in 1977 to US$188/ton in 1985 (in terms
of end-1977 constant dollars) in the Madiun project area. Historically, the
Government has followed a policy of keeping consumer food prices low by
selling imported rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices low.
To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm income, GOI has simultaneously
subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. :[n the last two years, however, GOI has
substantially raised domestic paddy prices to encourage rice production. This
change in policy, combined with the fall of world prices from the record
levels of 1973-74, has brought farm-gate prices fairly close to world levels.
Thus, the floor price for paddy is now Rp 70/kg, as compared with an imputed
economic price of Rp 75/kg. Although with some fluctuations, GOI has simi-
larly gradually reduced the subsidies for fertilizers. GOI is expected to
continue its efforts to align domestic and world market prices, and conse-
quently at full development, economic and financial prices for inputs and



- 27 -
outputs are assumed to coincide at the Bank's forecasted world market prices.
Annex 11 shows the calculation of commodity and fertilizer prices in more
detail.
Farm Income
6.04      For farm income analysis, three farm models (0.2 ha, 0.5 ha and
1.3 ha) were examined for the Madiun rehabilitation area, and two (0.3 ha and
0.8 ha) for the Ciujung drainage area. Land use and cropping patterns for
the present condition broadly reflect averages for cultivated lands in the
project areas. Small farms (less than 1.0 ha) have a higher cropping intensity
than large farms. The future condition with the project assumes the annual
cropping intensity would increase at Ciujung, but not at Madiun where the
future cropping pattern and intensity would remain as now. Soybeans represent
all other palawija crops in the Madiun crop budgets. As well, sugarcane pro-
duction has been excluded from the Madiun crop budgets, and farms, which cover
about 28,000 ha and are leased to the sugar factories once every three years,
would produce average annual farm incomes some 20% less than the incomes
shown here. Farm incomes are summarized below and detailed in Annex 12.
6.05      As shown in the table, present annual net crop income for share-
croppers and owner-operators varies from Rp 25,000 to Rp 245,000 at Madiun,
and from Rp 15,000 to Rp 75,000 at Ciujung. Similarly, at full development
net crop income would vary from Rp 35,000 to Rp 400,000 at Madiun and from
Rp 40,000 to Rp 215,000 at Ciujung. This represents a 4-6% annual crop
income increase at Madiun, and a 12% increase at Ciujung. Even allowing for
the additional costs of family farm labor and management (Annex 16), this
indicates farmers would have sufficient financial incentive to achieve the
projected yields and cropping intensities.
6.06      At Madiun with an estimated six persons per family and one family
per farm, present per capita farm income (US$35-110) would increase by
14-55% at full project development (US$40-170) in 1986; and at Ciujung
by 33-100% over the same period (from US$30-50 to US$40-100). However, even
at full development these estimated per capita farm incomes would be less
than the 1975 Indonesian per capita GNP of US$210.
6.07      An estimated 85-90% of the project area's farm families presently
have per capita incomes at or below the estimated absolute poverty level of
US$95 (1975 prices). At full agricultural development, the project would
increase this group's incomes on average by 40%, raising from one fifth to
one quarter of the farmers in the group above the absolute poverty level.



- 28 -
Farm                   Crop Income    Off-Farm Income             Farm Income /a
Size     Tenure      Present Future /b Pr,esent Future  Present Future  Present Future
(ha)                ----         - (Rp '000) -----------  -- (Rp '000)--  ---- (US$)
Madiun Rehabilitation
0.2  Owner-operator    45      70       60      60       105      130     250      310
Sharecropper       25     35       60      60        85      95      200     230
0.5  Owner-operator   105    175        40       35      145     210      350      510
Sharecropper       55     90       40      35        95     125      230     300
1.3  Owner-operator   245    400        25      20       270     420      650   1,010
Sharecropper      125    210       25      20       150     230      360     550
Ciujung Drainage
0.3  Owner-operator    30      80       55      55        85      135     200     330
Sharecropper       15     40       55      55        70      95      170     230
0.8  Owner-operator    75    215        45      40       120     250      290     600
Sharecropper       40    110       45      40        85     150      200     360
/a  Rounded to nearest Rp 5,000 and US$10.
/b Future represents at full project development in 1986.
6.08      No reliable income data are available for the landless laborers who
live in the project areas. However, assuming two full-time workers per
family; an average wage rate of Rp 150/day; and 200 work days/year/worker,
the annual income of a landless family can be no more than Rp 60,000 or
US$145. Since employment opportunities are limited, many families probably
earn less. Benefits to accrue to landless laborers under the project are
discussed in para. 7.01.
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      By providing improved water control, distribution and drainage,
the proposed project would increase crop yields and production on a total of
80,700 ha at lIadiun and Ciujung. It would also increase production on
2,800 ha served by the pilot groundwater development by providing a new
source of irrigation water, and continue investigation of the groundwater
resource. The project would directly benefit some 167,000 farm families or
1.0 million people; and through the provision of additional employment oppor-
tunities, indirectly benefit some 49,000 landless laborers' families, or
294,000 people. Through increased water control, crop production, and annual
cropping intensity at Ciujung, it would create a demand for an additional



- 29 -
4.9 million man-days of farm labor per year, or about 20,500 man-years. The
improved drainage at Ciujung would reduce flood damage to fishponds. Although
not included in the economic benefits, it would also reduce flood damage to
public and private structures such as roads, bridges and houses, improve
domestic water supplies and reduce mosquito breeding areas.
7.02      The economic rates of return would be 21% for Madiun rehabilitation
and 18% for Ciujung drainage, in both cases using a thirty-year evaluation
period; full project benefits being attained six years after completion of
construction; farm-gate prices for rice, soybean, sugarcane and fertilizers
based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985 expressed in December
1977 constant prices; a shadow foreign exchange rate; and a seasonally vari-
able shadow wage rate for unskilled labor (Annex 14).
7.03      The rates of return for both areas showed little sensitivity to
variations in the assumptions made concerning the timing of agricultural
benefits, and at Madiun, to variations in the cost estimate. They showed
most sensitivity to a reduction in the level of benefits, but in none of the
cases tested would the rate of return fall below 14%. On the other hand, if
project benefits turn out to be 25% higher than forecast because of higher
commodity prices, the rate of return would be 25% for Madiun and 22% for
Ciujung.
7.04      Economic rates of return were also calculated for the pilot ground-
water development at Madiun-Solo. Using similar assumptions to those listed
in para. 7.02, it would be 13%. The use of groundwater supplies in conjunc-
tion with existing surface water supplies would be carefully studied under
the project to obtain the maximum returns from each water source.
7.05      At full agricultural development, the project would result in rice
import savings of US$37 million annually at the projected world market price
c.i.f. Surabaya and Jakarta (Annex 11). After deducting the incremental cost
of imported chemicals, fuel and other farm inputs, annual net foreign exchange
savings would amount to about US$26 million.
7.06      No management or organizational problems are expected in the imple-
mentation of the project. Rapid inflation over the last several years led
to sizable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s. Inflation
is now more nearly under control, but provisions for price increases are
greater for this project and other projects recently financed by the Bank
than in earlier projects. Physical contingencies allowed are 25% for rehabil-
itation and drainage works, and 10% for miscellaneous services. Considering
the detailed investigations made for the project, these would be adequate.
Substantially higher benefits could be realized from investments in project
works if the required supporting agricultural services could be expanded so
as to provide adequate coverage to all areas (para. 6.01).
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached
on the following points:



- 30 -
(a)  consultants acceptable to the Bank wouLd be engaged by December 31,
1977 on terms and conditions approved by the Bank (para. 4.12);
(b) except for tertiary canals and structures, the works would
be divided into a number of suitable contracts (minimum size
US$125,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint
ventures of smaller local firms to bid within the categories or
classes for which Government regulations require them to be pre-
qualified; to minimize late construction starts early in the dry
season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be issued as
bid documents are completed, and bids would be received and pro-
cessed without waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP)
to be signed, but contracts would be awarded only after the DIP is
approved; and price escalation clauses, would be included in local
civil works contracts extending beyond one year (para. 4.23);
(c) PROSIDA and P2AT would maintain separate accounts for the project;
auditors acceptable to the Bank would be engaged to audit these
accounts; and audited financial statements, together with the
auditors' comments and opinion on the certificates of expenditure
for force account works, would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 4.25);
(d) the PROSIDA and P2AT subproject offices involved in project imple-
mentation would be adequately staffed, and GOI would consult with
the Bank before appointing a replacement for the General Manager of
PROSIDA or the General Manager of P2AT (para. 5.02);
(e) GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit
and agricultural inputs (including fertilizer, agricultural chemicals
and certified seed) are made available at the village level in all
project areas (para. 5.04);
(f) a water-user association would be formed for each tertiary unit in
the project areas to participate in the unit's construction and to
take over its operation and m,aintenance after project completion
(para. 5.05);
(g)  a water-user association would be formed for each well not later
than one year after the completion of each pilot scheme; one year
after the completion of each scheme, the water-user associations
would establish and collect from all beneficiaries fees in amounts
that would be gradually increased during the first five years of
well operation to ensure sound O&M practices; not later than June 30,
1981, GOI would furnish to the Bank a report on the groundwater
pilot project's implementation, including an assessment of the
beneficiaries capability to contribute to the project's replacement
cost and its proposals for collecting such contribution from the
beneficiaries; and based on this assessment, GOI would cause the
water-user associations to establish and collect from all bene-
ficiaries such charges as shall be agreed upon with the Bank.
(h) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and annual
needs, would be allocated to all Bank-assisted irrigation systems



- 31 -
in future years; GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that
at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to the
subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal
quarterly installments thereafter, until the total amounts are
fully released; to upgrade the standard of O&M services and to
effectively utilize the available funds, GOI would progressively
increase the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted
projects until the additional numbers to be established by GOI in
consultation with the Bank are employed; and GOI would inform
the Bank by December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M
personnel and per hectare O&M budget for each subproject; and by
June 1 of each following year, it would submit the approved
O&M budget and by October 1, the staffing provisions (para. 5.11);
and
(i) GOI, in accordance with its laws and regulations, would collect the
adjusted IPEDA based on the increased productivity of all irrigated
land rehabilitated and constructed under the project; the amounts
to be collected would be sufficient to ensure sound O&M practices
and to recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs during the
project's useful life, taking into account farmers' incentives and
capability to pay; and it would submit to the Bank for review
every two years the IPEDA rates collected for different land
classes (para. 5.14)
8.02      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$63 million, with
a 20-year maturity including a grace period of 4-1/2 years. The Borrower
would be the Government of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Climate
Madiun Area
1.        The Madiun project area is located near the western edge of East
Java, with a minor portion in Central Java. It embraces parts of the Kabupa-
tens (Districts) of Ngawi, M4adiun, Magetan and Panogoro in East Java, and
Sragen in Central Java.
2.        The project area of about 2,500 sq km is drained by the Bengawan
Solo and its principal tributary, Kali Madiun, which drain a total of 9,800
sq km. The Lawu volcano, which rises to a height of 3,200 m, and two lesser
volcano groups, the Willis-Dorati on the east and the Menapi-Menbabu on the
west, are prominent features that influence the local micro-climate. Project
lands vary in elevation from about 50 to 150 meters, averaging about 100
meters.
3.        Annual rainfall, which averages 2,000 mm, is influenced by the
tropical monsoons. The rainy or wet season normally extends from November
through May (northwest monsoon), while the dry season predominates during the
June-October period (southeast monsoon). Annual precigitation by months is
given in Table 1. Annual mean temperature is about 29 C, with a monthly
variation of only 3-40C from that mean. Humidity is generally high compared
to the rest of Java, even in the dry season.
Ciujung Area
4.        This area is typical of the relatively flat, low-lying coastal
plains on the northwestern coast of Java. It has the historic northwest
monsoon season from November through May, followed by an extremely dry period
from June through October. Mean annual temperature is about 27 0C, with
monthly means varying only 2-3 C from that mean. Day lengths are of approxi-
mately equal duration throughout the year, comprising about 13 hours of
daylight or near-daylight. More than 75% of the annual precipitation occurs
during the November-May period, and there are no significant orographic
features in the area that affect the micro-climate other than proximity to
the sea. Average monthly precipitation is presented in Table 1.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Climatological Data
Area
Total
Station                        Years        Jan      Feb      Mar      Apr      May       Jun      Jul      Aug      Sep       Oct      Nov      Dec      (Average)
Madiun Area
Mean rainfall, mma
Upper Basin          }  1941-45         305      293       294      201      144        45       43       20       25        81       135       296      1,916
Lower Basin               and           303      308       315      218      151       57        45       25       26        99       194      265       2,006
Entire Basin        }  1951-75          305      299      301       207      146       56        43       21       25        86       187      267       1,943
Temperature, OC           1964-75
Mean                                   26.9     27.0    27.2       27.9     28.1     28.1      27.7     28.2     29.0     29.5       28.7     27.5      (28.0)
Maximum                                30.6     30.7     31.3      31.8     32.0     32.1      32.0     32.9     33.9     34.3       33a2     31.5      (32.2)
Minimum                                22.6     22.6      22.5     22.4     22.3     21.2      21.2     21.4     22.4      23.1      23.3     22.6      (22.3)
Relative humidity, %   1964-75
14ean                                    77        79       79       75       72        66       61       57       55        57        67        74       (68)
Maximum                                  64        55       52       46       48        38       37       34       43        46        42        48       (46)
Minimum                                  99        99       98       99       98        95       95       97        97       99        98        98       (98)
Cloud cover               1967-76          7/8      7/8      6/8      6/8      6/8       4/8      3/8      3/8       4/8      5/8        7/8      6/8      (5/8)
Wind velocity, knot       1964-75            8        9        7         7        7       10       12        12       14       12          9        8        (10)
Sunshine hours, %         1971-75        63.2     60.2      70.0     83.5     80.4      89.2     91.8     96.7     94.1      91.0      83.1      72.6     (81.3)
Evaporation, mm/day       1953-75         5.8       4.1      4.2      4.5      4.7       5.1      5.1      6.0       6.4      6.6       4.8       4.5      (5.2)
Ciujung Area
Mean rainfall, mm         1950-67          185      121      124       83        82       76       43        53      128      205        257      256       1,613
F3 M~
a I-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Agricultural Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.       lMadiun Rehabilitation.  The project area is part of the Madiun irri-
gation systems in East Java province. Within the districts (kabupatens) of
Madiun, Magetan, Ngawi and Ponorogo, the total irrigated area of 140,000 ha
consists of 117 separate, small irrigation systems (DP units), grouped into
four irrigation sections. The DP units are situated from 2,000 m elevation
on the slopes of the adjacent volcanos Lawu and Wilis down to less than 100 m
on the intervening valley floor. Only a relatively small part of the irri-
gated areas, however, are above 500 m. Consisting of 26 DP units, the
75,000 ha project area is located mainly on the valley floor. This area
comprises some 60,440 ha technical, 7,230 ha semitechnical, and 7,840 ha
nontechnical irrigation /1 as follows:/2
Irrigation Section
Type of Irrigation System /1   Madiun   Ngawi   Ponorogo   Barat   Total
_____________-- (ha) ----- ---------
Technical                        15,524   7,471    10,363    27,084  60,442
Semitechnical                         -   1,223      3,955     2,051   7,229
Nontechnical                          -      96      6,229     1,514   7,839
Total                      15,524   8,790    20,547    30,649  75,510
2.        During the wet season, paddy is irrigated on 65,700 ha and sugar-
cane on the remaining 9,300 ha. During the dry season, this sugarcane area
is also irrigated, plus 15,500 ha of paddy. Additionally 65,500 ha of
/1  Technical irrigation refers to fully developed and controlled systems;
semitechnical to partially developed and controlled systems; and nontech-
nical to village or simple irrigation systems. Annex 4 gives more
details on all these systems.
/2 Area, yield and production statistics presented are averages for the five
years 1971-75, and come from data collected at the DP unit level. This
was also checked with data maintained at the subdistrict, district and
provincial level.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
secondary crop (palawija crop) /1 are partially irrigated. About 30,000 ha
of the palawija area is planted early in the April-May period, and the
remaining 35,500 ha is planted late in July-August. About 9,000 ha of this
area follows sugarcane, which is harvested from June through August. Soybean
is the major palawija crop as it is well adapted to the heavier lowland
soils, is reasonably tolerant to drought conditions, and matures in 90-100
days. In this report, soybeans have been used to represent all palawija
crops. Cropping intensity varies from 140% in poorly watered areas up to
270% in the better watered areas where some farmers can grow three crops per
year. The overall project area croplping intensity is about 208%. Table 1
shows the cropping patterns and production estimates at present and in future
without the project.
3.        Depending on water supplies, cropping patterns vary widely through-
out the project area. In the best watered areas, two paddy crops may be
followed by a palawija crop, or wet-season paddy be followed by two palawija
crops. In less favored areas, wet-season paddy is usually followed by a
palawija crop or fallow. Since sugar factories grow only one crop every
three years on any particular piece of land, sugarcane is rotated over about
28,000 ha. Immediately following the sugarcane! harvest, farmers usually grow
soybeans on the sugarcane beds.
4.        Wet-season rice is grown between October and May.  Depending on the
start of irrigation supplies, farmers transplant over some 12 weeks
between November and early February. They harvest over ten weeks between
March and May. Farmers grow dry-season paddy between March and August,
transplanting in March-May and harvesting in July-August. While most farmers
adhere to the above timetables, DP unit crop calendars can vary considerably
depending on the degree of water cont:rol in the unit. All rice is transplanted
from field nurseries onto previously puddled land. Early soybean crops are
grown from late March to mid-August and late crops from July to November.
Depending on water supplies, these crops may receive from two to four irriga-
tions. Following sugarcane, this is largely restricted to splashing water
over the old sugarcane beds from the drainage ditches. Most soybean crops,
however, suffer moisture stress and a,re mainly dependent on rainfall and
residual subsoil moisture from the preceding crop. Sugarcane is grown from
May to August the following year, and has first priority on available water
supplies. Factories rent land from farmers, and grow only a plant crop over
12-14 months, while farmers may now grow a plant crop and one ratoon over
23-25 months.
5.        Farmers sow 80% HYV rice in the wet season and 70% in the dry sea-
son. Average wet-season paddy yields 3.2 ton/ha, and dry-season 2.8 ton/ha.
Paddy yields are affected by poor water management, inadequate water supplies
and unsatisfactory agricultural input services. The main soybean variety
sown is variety No. 29, released by the Central Research Institute of Agricul-
ture. Average yields are 0.6 ton/ha for the early crop, and 0.44 ton/ha for
/1 Palawija crops are crops other than rice, sugar and the estate crops.
Major ones are soybeans, corn, cassava, groundnuts, green beans and
vegetables.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the late crop. Inadequate water supplies principally cause the low yields.
Factory sugarcane yields average 100 ton/ha, but farmers yields average
considerably lower at 70 ton/ha.
6.        Groundwater Pilot Project.  The three pilot groundwater development
areas are also in the Madiun region of East Java province. Their cropping
patterns and timetables are similar to the Madiun rehabilitation area. The
first two areas, 1,300 ha at Balong in Ponogoro district and 1,200 ha at
Caruban in Madiun district, are already partly irrigated, and are within DP
units to be rehabilitated (DP39,49 and DP 70 respectively). However, insuf-
ficient surface water restricts the present cropping activity and intensity.
At present, all the Balong area is planted to wet-season paddy, 100 ha of the
area to dry-season paddy, and 820 ha to early palawija crops, giving an
annual cropping intensity of 171%. Similarly all the Caruban area is planted
to wet-season paddy, 300 ha to dry-season paddy, and 600 ha to palawija
crops, giving an annual cropping intensity of 175%. For both areas, average
crop yields are: wet-season paddy 3.0 ton/ha; dry-season paddy 2.2 ton/ha;
and soybean 0.5 ton/ha.
7.        The third area, 300 ha at Tanon in Sragen district is rainfed.
The entire area is planted to wet-season paddy and 120 ha to early palawija
crops, giving an annual cropping intensity of 140%. Average crop yields are:
wet-season paddy 1.8 ton/ha; and soybean 0.4 ton/ha.
8.        Ciujung Drainage.  The Ciujung drainage area consists of several
small parcels of irrigated land within the existing Ciujung irrigation
rehabilitation project in West Java province. Wet-season rice is planted
over the entire 5,700 ha and dry-season rice over 850 ha, giving an annual
cropping intensity of 115%.
9.        Wet-season rice is grown from November to June and dry-season from
April to October. Because of flooding during December to February, farmers
may have to replant considerable portions of their wet-season crops. Paddy
yields average 2.2 ton/ha in the wet season and 2.6 ton/ha in the dry season.
Not only does the flooding reduce yields, damage irrigation facilities and
discourage farmers from constructing tertiary and quaternary canals and
drains, but by extending the wet season-crop period it reduces the area of
dry-season crop farmers can plant.
Future Cropping Patterns
10.       Madiun Rehabilitation.  Without the project, the increasing
deterioration of the irrigation system's capacity and level of water control
is expected to outweigh any possible crop yield increases due to varietal
improvement or better farming practices. Due to increasing canal siltation
and breakdown of intake and other control structures, crop yields would drop
by up to 10% by 1986. Wet-season paddy would average 3.0 ton/ha, dry-season
paddy 2.5 ton/ha, early soybeans 0.55 ton/ha, and late soybeans 0.4 ton/ha.
Sugarcane yields, however, would not be affected as cane areas have first
priority on available water supplies. Varietal improvement would increase
factory cane yields to 110 ton/ha and this, plus the spread of the BIMAS
sugar program, would increase farmer cane yields to 90 ton/ha.



AMINEX 2
Page 4
11.       As the project area is already intensively cultivated, and practi-
cally all available surface water resources utilized, the project would not
increase the area irrigated. The cropping pattern and annual cropping
intensity would remain as at present (Table 1).
12.       Groundwater Pilot Project.  WiLthout the project, the Balong and
Caruban areas wet-season paddy yield would reach the level expected with
rehabilitation of the Madiun irrigation area. Since surface water supplies
are limited, and this area would have last call on dry-season supplies,
dry-season yields would increase only 20% over existing yields. Wlet-season
paddy yield would average 4.2 ton/ha, dry-season paddy 2.6 ton/ha, and
soybean 0.6 ton/ha. The annual cropping intensity would not increase.
Resulting from varietal improvement and improved crop protection, the Tanon
area yields are expected to increase by up to 10%. Wet-season paddy yields
would average 2.0 ton/ha, and soybean 0.44 ton/ha. The annual cropping
intensity would not increase.
13.       Table 2 shows the expected changes in cropping patterns and produc-
tion with the project. While this is a pilot development and extension
workers would need to experiment with cropping patterns and yields to obtain
maximum returns, the following changes are considered feasible and consistent
with local farming practices. At Balong, Caruban and Tanon, groundwater sup-
plies would enable farmers to irrigate Et dry-season paddy crop on 50% of the
project areas, an early palawija crop on 50%, and a late palawija crop on
50%. Additionally, at Tanon farmers could irrigate the wet-season paddy
crop. The overall project areas cropping intensities would be 250% per year.
14.       Ciujung Drainage.  Without the project, crop yields and patterns
would remain as now. The frequent flooding would discourage farmers from
upgrading or intensifying. production. With the project, the shorter wet-
season crop period would allow the dry-season paddy crop to increase from
850 ha to 2,300 ha, and the overall project area cropping intensity to rise
from 115% to 140% (Table 1).
Future Yields
150       With good water management, control and distribution, a strengthened
and improved extension service, and adequate credit and input supplies, the
estimated future crop yields would average:
Average Yields (ton/ha)
Paddy             Soybeans       Sugarcane
Wet Season Dry Season Early Late Factory Farmer
Madiun Rehabilitation      4.2          3.8        0.8   0.63      110       90
Pilot Groundwater          4.2          4.2        1.2   1.2         -        -
Ciujung Drainage            3.6         3.8         -      -



AM;NEX 2
Page 5
The projected yields would be achieved five years after the introduction of
water, or completion of drainage or rehabilitation works. Madiun dry season
yields allow for water shortages, more severe on the paliwija crops than the
paddy area, and Ciujung yields assume minimum tertiary, and no quaternary,
canal development. Providing GOI could sufficiently expand the necessary
agricultural supporting services, all average crop yields could be higher.
16.       The project would not increase sugarcane yields as cane areas
already have the best water supplies, which are reasonably well maintained.
The improved yields would be assisted by the use of HYV rice varieties
throughout all areas, certified seed, and improved efficiency of credit and
input services. The introduction to the project areas of the National Food
Crop Extension project would play a key role in the organization of farmer
groups for extension, crop production, and water management. The forming of
the groups would help in synchronizing cropping patterns and calendars with
projected water deliveries, increasing contact between individual farmers and
government programs, and ensuring better use of resources and inputs available
to each farmer.
Development Constraints
17.       The most important possible constraints to the project's success
are discussed briefly. Other items (seed, fertilizer, credit, extension) are
discussed in Annex 3.
18.       Crop Calendars and Water Management.  At MIadiun, water management,
control and distribution in the main system and at the tertiary-quaternary
unit levels nust be substantially improved.  At present, all available sur-
face water is used. Water wasted in the upper sections of a system usually
finds its way back into the system or overall systems, and is utilized fur-
ther downstream. Thus, increased crop yields would result from better dis-
tribution of the existing water supply. In addition, water management must
be integrated with crop patterns and calendars. Water user groups would
be organized to smnchronize crop calendars and projected water supplies, and
to carry out improved water distribution and system maintenance at the
tertiary and quaternary levels.
19.       Crop Protection.  Major rice pests are stemborer, rats, leptocoriza
(rice bugs) and brown plant hopper. So far in the MIadiun area, serious
outbreaks of the brown plant hopper have been restricted to a few, small
areas. The agricultural service hopes to contain the pest by introducing
resistant varieties (IR26, 28, 30 and 34) and chemicals. According to local
data, farmers use on average one liter/ha of insecticide, but pest control is
inadequate. Common soybean pests are the bean shoot fly (Mtalagromyza and
Agromyza sp), leaf eating caterpillars, and pod sucking insects. Farmers do
not use agrochemicals on soybeans, and do not report insect pests as a major
probler.  However, there appears to be considerable insect damage which is
not identified by the farmers.  Following introduction of the National Food
Crops Extension project, extension workers would identify crop pests, and
assist farmers protect their crops.



AflNEX 2
Page 6
20.       Draft Animals.  At present, there is one pair of working draft
animals (buffalos and cattle) to 1.5 ha of irrigated land in the Madiun
residency. Since 1973, the number of working draft animals has been
falling by 3% per year. If this trend continues, farmers could have diffi-
culties in the timely preparation of land for the dry-season rice crop. The
Bank Rakyat Indonesia does make loans avaialble for draft animal purchases;
however, these animals would have to come from outside the residency. At
present farmers do some 20% of their paddy cultivation by hand. If the fall
in the draft animal population cannot be stopped, farmers would have to
cultivate more by hand.
21.       Harvesting, Drying and Storage.  Farmers harvest rice using small
knives (ani-ani) or, occasionally, sickles. They thresh the crop by treading
on the panicles or beating them on a threshing floor. Paddy is sun-dried on
mats in the house yard or on the roadside. Lack of proper concrete drying
floors makes drying of the wet-season rice crop difficult and losses from
rainfall can be considerable. Although the Government has initiated a
program to provide drying floors at farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs), more
drying floors are required. Farmers store bagged paddy or dry stalk paddy in
their houses or on racks in small outbuildings until it is sold or consumed.
This storage is not always vermin proof and cannot be readily fumigated to
control insects. Storage losses are around 5-8% while losses during harvest,
drying, and storage could be as high as 15-20%.
22.       Processing.  BUUD/KUDs and individuals own some 450 rice mills and
hullers in the Madiun project area. Assuming an eight-hour working day and a
200-day milling season, the mills have an annual capacity of 360,000 tons of
paddy compared to the current area production of 283,000 tons. Slightly more
milling capacity would be needed at full development; however, BUUD/KUDs and
individuals would provide this when required. The same situation holds at
Ciujung.
Marketing
23.       Rice marketing channels and problems are described in the Irrigation
Program Survey (Report No. 705-IND), and in Annex 12. Farmers sell their
palawija crop production in village and subdistrict markets. Facilities at
these markets are being upgraded where necessary under the INPRES program.
Some BUUD/KUDs are disseminating information on market prices to their mem-
bers. Local authorities should encourage the spread of this price informa-
tion, and should monitor markets to see they work efficiently.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Cropping Patterns and Production
Present                   Future without project           At full project development /a
Area   Yield   Production          Area   Yield   Production           Area   Yield   Production
(ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)          (ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)          (ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)
Madiun Rehabilitation
Wet season
Irrigated
Rice                    65,700    3.2        210.2         65,700    3.0         197.1         65,700    4.2        275.9
Factory sugarcane        6,600      -          -            6,600       -                       6,600      -
Farmer sugarcane         2,700      -          -             2,700      -                       2,700      -
Subtotal           75,000                              75,000                             75,000
Dry season
Irrigated
Rice                    15,500    2.8         43.4          15,500    2.5         38.8         15,500    3.8         58.9
Factory sugarcane        6,600  100.0        660.0          6,600  110.0         726.0          6,600  110.0        726.0
Farmer sugarcane         2,700   70.0        189.0           2,700   90.0        243.0          2,700   90.0        243.0
Soybean I /b            30,000    0.6         18.0         30,000    0.55         16.5         30,000    0.8         24.0
Soybean II              35,500    0.44        15.6         35,500    0.4          14.2         35,500    0.63        22.4
Subtotal          90,300                              90,300                             90,300
Annual summary
Paddy                   81,200    -          253.6         81,200    -          235.9          81,200    -          334.8
Sugarcane                9,300    -          849.0          9,300    -          969.0           9,300    -          969.0
Soybean                 65,500    -           33.6         65,500    -            30.7         65,500    -           46.4
Total cropped area       156,000                             156,000                            156,000
Cropping intensity            208%                               208%                                208%
Ciujung Area
Wet season
Irrigated
Rice                     5,700    2.2         12.5           5,700    2.2         12.5          5,700    3.6         20.5
Dry season
Irrigated
Rice                       850    2.6          2.2             850    2.6          2.2          2,300    3.8           8.7
Annual summary
Paddy                    6.500      -         14.7           6,550      -         14.7          8,000      -          29.2
Cropping intensity            115%                               115%                                140%
/a In 1986.
/b Soybean I = early crop planted after wet season rice.
Soybean II = late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Cropping Patterns and Production: Groundwater Pilot Project
Present                 Future without project            At full proiect development /a
Area   Yield   Production         Area   Yield   Production          Area   Yield   Production
(ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)         (ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)          (ha)  (ton/ha) ('000 ton)
Wet season
Irrigated
Rice                 2,500     3.2        8.0           2,500     4.2       10.5           2,800     4.2        11.8
Rainfed
Rice                   300     1.8        0.5             300    2.0         0.6
Subtotal       2,800                              2,800                              2,800
Dry season
Irrigated
Rice                   400    2.2         0.9             400    2.6         1.0           1,400     4.2         5.9
Soybean I /b         1,420    0.5         0.7           1,420    0.6         0.9           1,400     1.2         1.7
Soybean II              -       -          -               -       -          -            1,400     1.2         1.7
Rainfed
Soybean               120    0.4         0.05            120    0.44        0.05
Subtotal       1,940                              1,940                              4,200
Annual summary
Paddy                  3,200                 9.4          3,200                12.1          4,200                17.7
Soybean                1,540                 0.75         1,540                 1.0          2,800                 3.4
Total cropped area       4,740                              4,740                               7,000
Cropping intensity          169%                               169%                               250%
/a In 1986.
/b  Soybean I = Early crop;  Soybean II = Late crop.
mb1



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        Previous irrigation project appraisal reports, and the Irrigation
Program Survey report (No. 705-IND) have described the organization of
agricultural supporting services in Java. In addition, the National Food
Crops Extension Project report (No. 1105a-IND) describes in detail the BIMAS
(farm production credit and inputs) program, and the revised agricultural
extension service, which will ultimately be introduced to the project areas.
This annex, thus, only briefly describes the programs and supporting services
available to farmers.
2.        The principal government agencies in the project area are:
(a) the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) -
contains agencies implementing water resource development projects,
and, through the Provincial Irrigation Services, operates irrigation
systems to the secondary canal turnout;
(b) the Directorate General of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFC) - within
the Ministry of Agriculture, plans and executes food crop production
programs, and operates extension, seed production and plant protec-
tion services;
(c) the Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC) - operates farmer
cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs);
(d) Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) - main rural credit supplier;
(e) BULOG/DOLOG - the national paddy/rice marketing agency;
(f) Agency for Research and Development (ARD) - within the Ministry
of Agriculture, carries out agricultural research and development
programs; and
(g)  the Ministry of Home Affairs (MIIA) - provides the provincial and
local administrative services.
3.        All agencies have a Central Directorate in Jakarta, which plans,
supervises, provides technical assistance and finances programs on a national
basis. Each agency is represented at the provincial and district (kabupaten)
levels, and sometimes also at the subdistrict (kecamaten) and village (desa)
levels. Staff assigned to the provinces are administratively responsible to
local government, that is the Governor (province) and the Bupati (district),
who coordinate the programs and activities of the agencies within their area
of command, and provide basic salaries and operating expenses.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Research
4.        ARD conducts research for paddy and secondary crops at the National
Research Centers for Paddy and Secondary Crops in Sukamandi, and at a number
of field stations. Under the National Food Crops Extension project (NFCE)
(Loan 1267-IND), subject matter specialists would conduct adaptive research
at the district or subdistrict level. Tegalgondo Seed Improvement Center is
the nearest ARD field station to the Madiun project area.  Here, workers
produce rice and secondary crops foundation seed, carry out rice varietal
adaption and fertilizer trials, and new varietal adaption trials for secon-
dary crops.
Extension
5.        The Bank-assisted NFCE project would be introduced into each
project area. The four districts (Madiun, Magetan, Ngawi and Ponorogo),
into which the Madiun rehabilitation area falls, have only 144 field exten-
sion workers (PPL) to service 467,000 farm families, an average ratio of 1
PPL:3,200 farm families. Under the NFCE project, this ratio would be reduced
to 1:1,700. Additionally, the extension service operates 14 rural extension
centers (REC), has 31 senior extension workers (PPM), and four subject matter
specialists (PPS). Under the NFCE project, one new REC would be built, ten
RECs rehabilitated, seven PPMs, seven PPSs and four district extension offi-
cers hired, and the necessary furnishings and equipment provided to bring the
extension service up to the NFCE project standards.
Credit and BIMAS Program
6.        Farmers obtain credit from six main sources:  BRI, BUUD/KUD, village
cooperatives (Lumbung Desa), landlords, merchants and relatives. Under the
BIMAS program, BRI is the main source of production credit. For irrigated
rice production, a farmer can obtain up to Rp 37,000/ha to cover seed, ferti-
lizer, insecticide, rodenticide, spraying, and cost-of-living expenses. This
would cover about 80% of estimated cash costs at full project development.
The loan is for seven months at 1%/month interest rate. To be eligible for
the loan, a farmer must not be more than two years overdue with his earlier
BIMAS repayments. BIMAS loans are also available for soybean, corn, ground-
nut, green pea, sorghum and sugarcane production. At present, in the Madiun
area, the BTIAS program covers 75% of the irrigated wet season paddy, 37% of
the irrigated dry-season paddy, and 5% of the soybeans, corn and groundnuts.
At Ciujung, the BINAS program covers 42% of the irrigated wet season paddy,
and 6% of the irrigated dry-season paddy. Assuming that at full project
development, BIMAS covered 85% of the rice area and 40% of the secondary crop
area, at a loan level of Rp 37,000/ha for rice and Rp 26,000/ha for secondary
2rops, the annual project area credit requirements would be Rp 3,035 million
at Madiun, and Rp 180 million at Ciujung. While BRI would be able to supply
these funds, it would have to increase its field staff to avoid delays in
processing and issuing BIMAS credits. At present the BRI officer to farmer
ratio is about 1:1,600, which is insufficient to efficiently handle the
present BIMAS coverage.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        BRI also supplies farmers and BUUD/KUDs with some medium-term
credit (one to five years) for purchases of draft and breeding cattle, pigs
and chickens, hullers, water pumps, grain storage and drying floors. However,
the volume is low, application procedures are complicated and repayment terms
restrictive. Most loans are for one to three years. A greater volume of
credit is required, and over longer repayment periods, particularly for
storages or land development. The Bank is already assisting BRI in providing
medium term credit under Credit 480-IND. Although its repayment terms are
easier than BRI's general repayment terms, it is restricted to a few provinces.
A rural credit project, currently being considered for financing, would provide
credit for up to a maximum of 15 years over 7 provinces.
Seed
8.        Madiun.  Approximately 3,250 tons of rice seed are currently used
each year in the project area. About 80% of the seed is obtained by retention
from the farmers' production and 20% from seed growers. Under the Provincial
agricultural service's plans, seed growers would supply in future a much
larger percentage of farmer's paddy seed, even up to near 100% when disease
attacked varieties must be replaced.  The district seed farms multiply founda-
tion seed from the provincial seed farms, and the produce is distributed to
seed growers or demonstration plots. Some of the seed growers' production is
cleaned, tested and certified by the district seed station; the rest is sold
directly to farmers. In addition, BUUD/KUDs may purchase seed from growers,
have the seed cleaned and tested, and then resell it to farmers. At present,
Madiun, Magetan, Ponorogo and Ngawi districts have 45 ha of district seed
farms, 79 ha of demonstration plots, and 1,040 ha of seed growers' farms.
This is more than sufficient to supply the entire Madiun residency present
demand, and sufficient to meet future demand; however, only some 20-30% of
the seed sold to farmers is of good quality. More seed production inspectors
are required to supervise growers and check quality during production and
marketing. At present, good quality soybean, corn or groundnut seed is not
produced. A workable storage system must be provided to carry these seeds
over from October to March without substantial losses in the germination
percentage. At full development, project farmers would use about 2,450 tons
of rice seed per year. If rice seed would be renewed every third crop year,
the estimated annual requirement of quality seed would be 800 tons.
9.        Ciujung.  Approximately 450 tons of rice seed are currently used
annually in the project area. Farmers purchase about 10% of the seed from
BUUD/KUDs or local seed farms; the remaining 90% they retain from their own
production. BUUD/KUDs distribute certified seed from the National Seed
Corporation at Sukamandi (Bank-assisted under Credit 246-IND). At full
project development, because of reduced crop replanting, farmers would use
only 250 tons of rice seed annually. If farmers would renew their rice seed
every third crop year, the estimated annual requirement of quality seed
would be 80 tons.
Fertilizer
10.       Madiun.  Supplied mainly under the BIMAS program, project area
farmers currently apply some 18,000 tons of fertilizer annually to their rice



ANNEX 3
Page 4
and secondary crops. This consists of 13,000 tons of urea and 5,000 tons of
triple superphosphate (TSP). Application rates are relatively high on the
rice crops, being 170 kg/ha of urea and 50 kg/ha of TSP in the wet season,
and 120 kg/ha of urea and 40 kg/ha of TSP in the dry season. Crop yields,
however, are not consistent with these application rates. Due to incorrect
application procedures and timing, much of the fertilizer is wasted. Secon-
dary crops receive some 20 kg/ha of TSP. At full project development, rice
and secondary crops would require some 22,300 tons of fertilizer annually,
consisting of 15,600 tons of urea and 6,700 tons of TSP. Fertilizer distri-
bution and storage would have to be improved at the village level. Improved
extension services under the NFCE would assist farmers to use their fertilizer
more efficiently. Local road upgrading under the INPRES program would improve
village level fertilizer distribution.
11.       Ciujung.  Farmers currently apply some 600 tons of fertilizer
annually in the project area, consisting of 500 tons of urea and 100 tons of
TSP. At full project development, rice crops would require 1,800 tons of
fertilizer per year, consisting of ]L,400 tons of urea and 400 tons of TSP.
Again, the fertilizer distribution and storage systems would have to be
improved at the village level. This will be done as described in para. 10.
Farmer Organizations
12.       Two main farmer groups operate in the project area:  farmer coopera-
tives (BUUD/KUD) and water user groups. BUUDs are precooperatives, which
convert to full cooperatives, KUDs, when proven viable. They distribute
fertilizer and agrochemicals, provide paddy drying, cleaning, storage and
milling services, and act as the rice procurement authority's (BULOG/DOLOG)
agent in the village, buying paddy directly from farmers. At Madiun, there are
47 BUUD/KUDs in the project area, and 19% of the farmers are members. The
expansion of membership and services offered to members are constrained by
poor management and little supervision or technical support by the DGC.
13.       The water users group is a traditional organization in the village
of farm irrigators. The village headman controls it and is assisted by an
elected representative of the village (the ulu.-ulu). In return for contribu-
tions by irrigators from their crops, and sometimes an area of village A'ce
land, the ulu-ulu organizes water distribution and maintenance of the irriga-
tion system below the tertiary outlet. In many areas, the water user groups
are inefficient, and their organization to integrate cropping calendars and
the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system at the farm level is
basic to increasing crop yields. To do this, irrigation and food crop
extension officials must work as a team, as would be done under the proposed
agricultural development plan for Loan 1100-INI).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIII
The Project Works
1.         The general location of the project works is shown on Map 12631.
The Madiun Rehabilitation project is shown on Map 12634; the Madiun Ground-
water pilot project, on Map 12634; and the Ciujung drainage project, on Map
12633.
Madiun Rehabilitation, Stage I
2.         The project area consists of 26 contiguous service units (Table 1)
in four irrigation sections classified as technical (60,000 ha), semitechnical
(7,200 ha) and nontechnical (7,800 ha). /1 The total Stage I area of 75,000 ha
lies mostly in the lower, flatter center of the Madiun valley; the rehabilita-
tion of the peripheral 65,000 ha will be carried out at a later stage.
3.         The Madiun irrigation area is served by a highly developed network
of predominantly technical systems, most of which are covered by rudimentary
tertiary systems. Water is, with few exceptions, supplied on a run-of-river
basis, and some of the main diversion structures date back to the end of the
19th century. Over the decades project works have deteriorated, both struc-
turally and through extensive siltation, so that there is a risk of losing
essential structures. Such features as diversion and sluice gates are
blocked by silt and boulders precluding proper operation, and conveyance
works have lost their original capabilities to serve farmers' needs. Roads in
the area have likewise deteriorated, with travel during the wet season
severely restricted and sometimes impossible. The works proposed for Stage I
would restore/upgrade the entire service area to full technical standards,
and rehabilitate and upgrade tertiary systems to PROSIDA standards. Emphasis
would be put upon reducing siltation in the entire system, and associated
improvements would be instituted in the fields of drainage, roads, and
communications.
/1 Technical systems are those with gate-controlled permanent diversion
weirs, measuring devices, and desilting facilities; their conveyance
systems have control structures and measuring devices on all primary and
secondary canals, including turnouts to tertiary canals. Semitechnical
systems have permanent or temporary diversion weirs with control and
measuring facilities, but their conveyance systems either lack these
facilities or have them, but not to technical standards. Nontechnical
systems are those without control and measuring facilities at the headworks
and with conveyance and control structures either temporary or rudimentary.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Project works would comprise:
(a)  rehabilitation and improvement of 216 headworks;
(b) rehabilitation of 440 km of primary and secondary canals,
including 1,190 structures, channel clearing, and lining;
(c) rehabilitation and improvement of tertiary works on 30,000 ha;
(d)  improvement of drainage systems;
(e)   construction of buildings and housing for O&M personnel;
(f)  improvement of about 450 km /1 of inspection and access roads;
(g) improvement of 338 km of telephone communication lines and
related facilities; and
(h) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
5.        Headworks.  Some 80% of the Stage I area is supplied by run-of-river
diversions, with the remainder coming from four small reservoirs, springs,
groundwater, and river pumps. Diversion weirs are of both permanent and
temporary types. The former employ manually operated vertical lift gates,
many of which are inoperable and most of which require replacement or repair.
The erosion of wingwalls and aprons, furthermore, threatens the stability of
some of the major diversion structures, river aggradation over the decades
prevents adequate hydraulic control at canal intakes, and desilting structures
are unable to reduce the sedimentation rate in conveyance systems. Under the
project, existing sluice and delivery gates would be serviced and restored;
geared hoists would be provided, and, where necessary, would be power
operated; damaged structures would be repaired to their original condition;
all works serving 16,000 ha or more would be brought to technical standards;
all headworks serving more than 100 ha would be provided with diversion weirs,
sluicing facilities, and measuring devices; existing desilting basins would be
upgraded; and new desilting works would be constructed for those canals
serving more than 1,000 ha which presently lack them.
6.        Canals and Canal Structures   The major problems with canals have
resulted from siltation and erosion.  The former has significantly reduced
canal capacities. In some cases silt has been deposited on fields to a
height where they can only receive part of the flow required from the convey-
ance system. These effects in turn have resulted in water wastage at the
time that water is in short supply.  Erosion has destroyed canal banks,
encroached on roadways, undermined structures, and increased seepage. Many
control structures are presently inoperative, damaged, and missing components;
measurement devices are often inoperative or insufficient in number to afford
/1 Some 120 km of district roads that are used for access to the project are
maintained by the Kabupatens and would not require assistance form the
project.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
efficient control. Existing canal linings are in general in sound condition,
with the notable exception of those near structures. Under the project,
canals and structures would be rehabilitated to ensure structural stability
and provide the required capacity. In many cases this would entail the
construction of new works or the raising of existing diversion and control
structures to enable them to serve their original command areas. Where
velocities are excessively high, check and drop structures would be added,
and masonry lining would be introduced, where required, to prevent erosion
and curtail seepage losses.
7.        Tertiary Systems.  Existing tertiary facilities are inefficient and
unable to provide equitable water distribution because ditches are too long
and turnouts and measuring facilities are generally primitive or lacking.
Canal embankments have deteriorated and field-to-field irrigation is common.
As a result, some agricultural inputs are lost, seepage is excessive, and
remote fields are less satisfactorily served than those that are adjacent to
or near canals. In upgrading these systems to the PROSIDA standards devel-
oped under Loan 1268-IND, the project would limit tertiary units to serve
about 150 ha maximum and provide modular, modern turnouts, measuring facili-
ties, and lining for the first 50 m of canal if shown to be required. The
farmers would excavate the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains under
technical supervision provided by the project, at daily wage rates equal to
the prevailing rates for work done under the INPRES program.
8.        Drainage.  Existing farm drains would be improved by the farmers
and new drains would be added, if required, in conjunction with the improve-
ment of tertiary systems. They would be designed to limit the duration of
flooding to 72 hours or less during the occurrence of a 5 year storm.
9.        Buildings and Housing.  At present, office buildings, shops, and
housing are inadequate for the proper operation and administration of irriga-
tion systems in the Madiun area. Under the project, the following will be
provided: 19 sub-section offices, 11 gate-tender stations, 181 inspector's
houses, 1 central workshop, and 4 section storehouses.
10.       Roads and Bridges.  Unpaved access roads in the Madiun area are
hazardous and sometimes impassable in the wet season, with the result that
headwork structures and inspection roads cannot be reached during critical
periods. Inspection roads are in general eroded and often nonexistent along
some canals. Wooden and bamboo bridges are deteriorated and too widely
spaced for the efficient operation and maintenance of the works and the
movement of produce. Under the project, about 460 km of inspection and access
roads would be upgraded to all-weather standards by providing a 15 cm thick,
compacted gravel or crushed stone surfacing on the 4.5 m wide roadway.
Motorcycle paths would be constructed along smaller canals. Vehicular
bridges would be spaced at 3-5 km intervals ajong canals, with animal/pedes-
trian crossings in between.
11.       Communications.  Present telephone facilities do not permit the
efficient coordination of administrative and operation activities in the
area. The project would improve 338 km of telephone lines and associated
equipment throughout the area.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Project
12.       The proposed project would involve development of groundwater
resources to serve about 2,800 ha in three pilot areas of 300 ha (Tanon),
1,200 ha (Caruban), and 1,300 ha (Balong). The pilot schemes would identify
and evaluate alternative engineering, geohydrologic, agricultural, social,
economic, financial, operational and institutional possibilities for applica-
tion in potential future groundwater developments throughout Indonesia.
13.       The Tanon pilot area is located northeast of Solo in the Solo River
basin, and the scheme would involve development of groundwater for the irri-
gation of presently rainfed lands. The Balongy pilot area, near Ponogoro,
lies along both banks of the Anjar River, in the upper Madiun River basin.
Block A on the west bank embraces about 800 ha that are presently served by
a technical irrigation system from the Sungkar River; Block B, of 500 ha, lies
along the east bank, and is served by a semitechnical system from the Anjar
River. The Caruban pilot area lies northeast of Madiun and is currently
served by a technical system which draws its surface water supply from the
Notopuro river. The water supply for both the Balong and Caruban pilot areas
is inadequate and groundwater would be utilized conjunctively with the
available surface water. Rehabilitation of the irrigation systems for both
areas would be done as a part of the Madiun Irrigation System Rehabilitation
(paras. 2 and 3).
14.       The pilot project would include a system of 33 deep wells (3 in
Tanon,/l 19 in Balong, and 11 in Caruban) to provide a year-round water
supply in all three areas. The wells would be equipped wth turbine pumps
with individual diesel engine drives.
15.       Wells in the Tanon area would be 100-150 m deep, have a projected
yield of 75 liters per second (1/sec) with a lift of about 20 m and command
an area of about 100 ha each. Peak demand from the well system (0.23 cu
m/sec) is projected to occur in December, at the beginning of the wet season
paddy crop. A new irrigation system down to the quaternary canals, each
commanding about 15 ha, would be required in the Tanon area and is included
in the project. About 3 km of tertiary and 15 km of quaternary canals would
be required. A minor terminal drainage system is also included to convey
excess storm and return flows to natural drainageways. Rehabilitation of
about 2.5 km of village and farm roads would be required to assure appropriate
access to the wells. No new road system would be required in this area.
16.       For the Balong area, wells would also be 100-150 m deep, have a
projected yield of 40 1/sec with a lift of 20 m, and command an area of about
/1 These three wells were drilled and cased under Credit 289-IND; all the
remaining wells would be new.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
80 ha each in Block A and about 55 ha each in Block B. Peak demand for
groundwater would occur during December, the beginning of the wet paddy
season and total about 0.7 cu m/s (0.4 cu m/s for Block A and 0.3 cu m/s for
Block B). In Block A, about 3 km of secondary canals with appurtenant
tertiary canals are in place. For Block B, there is less than 1 km of
secondary canal and a few tertiary canals in place. All of the existing
canal systems are in need of rehabilitation that would be provided under the
Madiun Irrigation System Rehabilitation portion of the project. No drainage
network would be required in the Balong area, but about 2 km of new access
roads would be required and about 5 km of existing village roads would
be upgraded or rehabilitated.
17.       Wells in the Caruban area would be 150-200 m deep, have a projected
yield of 60 1/sec at 40 m lift, and command an area of about 110 ha each.
Peak demand from the well system is projected at 0.65 1/sec. All irrigation
and drainage canals in the area, down to the tertiary and quaternary levels
would be rehabilitated or constructed under the Madiun irrigation subproject.
Access to the area would be facilitated by the construction of 2 km of new
road and the rehabilitation and improvement of 7.5 km of existing village
roads.
Ciujung Drainage
18.       Flooding on the coastal area of the 24,300 ha Ciujung subproject,
which was rehabilitated by PROSIDA under Credit 220-IND, is produced by local
runoff that is not evacuated fast enough by the internal drains, and by
overbank flow from rivers which collect runoff from upstream catchments and
flow through the area before discharging into the Java Sea. Sixteen separate
pockets of land totaling 5,700 ha require drainage upgrading to solve this
flooding problem. It will serve as a pilot project to develop useful guide-
lines for the evaluation of similar programs in low-lying areas within the
other rehabilitated areas. To estimate the numbers and quantities of internal
drainage works required (paras. 20-25), a detailed study was made of a 2,000 ha
sample area lying immediately to the east of the Ciujung area, and findings
were extrapolated to the latter's entire 5,700 ha on a per ha basis. For
river channel and embankment improvement (para. 25), as well as for road
surfacing and bridges (para. 26), inventories of requirements were carried
out through the entire area to be rehabilitated.
19.       The project would comprise:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of the primary drainage system
including 23 gated control structures, 6 weirs, 21 box culverts, 91
pipe drains, and several check dikes;
(b) rehabilitation of about 150 km of existing secondary drains and
construction of 30 km of secondary and 7 km of primary collector
drains;
(c) desilting of 7 km of river channel coupled with the reconstruc-
tion of flood protection embankments; and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(d) bituminous surfacing of 5 km of road, reconstruction of 5 bridges,
and construction of about 50 km of gravel-surfaced all weather
roads and 150 km of dirt roads along drainage embankments.
20.       Internal Drainage Structures.  Control structures at the outlets of
secondary drains will consist of one or more bays with rectangular, counter-
weighted flap gates 2.0 m in width. These flap, gates, which permit only
unidirectional flow will enable discharge from the interior area when water
levels exceed those in the receiving primary drain or river but would prevent
reverse flow when outside water levels are higher. The manually operated
vertical slide gate upstream of the flap gate in each bay would retain water
for agricultural and domestic use during the dry season and facilitate trash
removal and maintenance of the flap gate during the wet season. These gates
will be mounted in a reinforced concrete structure with gabion-lined transi-
tions upstream and downstream, a design which has proved workable in other
coastal areas with similar drainage problems. At present the project area is
deficient in control structures and where they exist, are generally function-
ing improperly owing to inadequacies of design and maintenance.
21.       An estimated six weirs would be required in the area to retain
water in the interior drainage channels during the dry season. These would
be simple multi-bay reinforced concrete structures with manually operated
vertical gates 2.5 m in width. They would render unnecessary the present
practice of farmers of blocking secondary drains with earthen dams during
the dry season, to obtain additional irrigation water. These dams are not
removed at the onset of the wet season and hence impede local drainage,
whereas the proposed weirs would simply be openied at the outset of the
monsoon rains.
22.       Reinforced concrete box culverts would be used for spans of less
than 6.0 m where roads cross drainage channels within the project area; they
would thus enable vehicular traffic to operate in areas that are currently
completely isolated in the wet season and difficult to reach in the dry
season.
23.       More than 90 concrete pipe drains typically  0.50 m in diameter
would convey excess water from local areas averaging 60 to 65 ha to secondary
drains. They will pass through the embankment of the secondary drains and
eliminate the farmers present practice of tearing down these embankments to
remove excess water.
24.       Small earthen check dikes would be constructed to block some exist-
ing arterial drains which have silted up over the years, owing to low dis-
charges and the ineffectiveness of the moderate tides characteristic of
the area to flush out accumulated sediment. These structures would divert
flows to new collector drains, which would in tturn discharge into improved
primary drains and rivers. In this way the increased wet-season flow in the
unblocked major channels would provide more effective flushing of sediments
out to sea. This would maintain channel capacities required to evacuate
flood waters rapidly enough to avoid extensive crop losses. The diversion of
drainage flows to a few channels would also reduce losses presently sustained



ANNEX 4
Page 7
when commercial fish ponds, which lie along the coast between the agricultural
areas and the sea, are inundated and flushed out. Fish farmers would no
longer need to block drains to protect their ponds.
25.       Secondary and Primary Collector Drains.  Under existing conditions,
5,700 ha in low-lying zones of in the Ciujung area are flooded more than once
in five years to depths and durations which necessitate one or more replant-
ings and results in loss of some agricultural inputs and reduction of yields.
The proposed rehabilitation of 150 km of secondary drains and the construc-
tion of 30 km of new secondary and 7 km of primary drains would reduce the
flood frequency, the areal extent, and the destructiveness of inundation from
runoff within the Ciujung catchment. Using excavated materials from existing
drains, embankments would be raised along the newly excavated channels to
increase conveyance capacity and limit overbank flooding. These embankments
would also serve as inspection and maintenance access roads, which are
virtually nonexistent in the project area.
26.       River Improvement.  The channel capacities of principal rivers and
drains in the area would be improved by dredging silt and sand bars which
impede their flow. The excavated materials would be used to raise flood
protection embankments paralleling their courses. The 7 km of works proposed
would reduce overbank flooding to an average frequency of once in 50 years./l
The embankment heights and the level of protection provided by them would be
reviewed by the project consultants, and GOI, in consultation with the Bank,
may reduce their frequency of failure if it is shown that such failure would
pose a serious threat to the rural population. Periodic dredging, where
required, would be carried out as part of routine O&M services. This is
expected to be minimal, however, because of the sediment-flushing velocities
that would develop upon completion of the works.
27.       Roads and Bridges.  In addition to the improved accessibility
resulting from river and drain embankments, box culverts, and the roadways
over internal drainage structures, the project would include the rehabilitation
of 5 km of the Mauk-Terate district road running through the project area
roughly parallel to the coast. This vital link from the interior of the
Ciujung area to both the Jakarta-Merak state road and the state railroad
would be bituminous-surfaced for all-weather use. Five bridges along this
road, which have spans of about 20 m and which have deteriorated since their
construction some 40 years ago, would also be rehabilitated or reconstructed
as necessary.
Technical Assistance
28.       This segment of the project would include four distinct activities:
(a) Audio-Visual Training Program;
(b) Cirebon-Rentang Tertiary System Design;
/1  This return period has been adopted by GOI for major flood control works
in Java.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(c) Mapping Program; and
(d) Text Processing and Records Depository and Retrieval System.
Each is designed to provide assistance to PROSI])A in more effectively carry-
ing out its Bank-assisted projects through anci:Llary supportive activities.
29.       Audio-Visual Training Aids Project.  UJnder the Sixth Irrigation
Project (Loan 1100-IND) assistance was provided to PROSIDA to initiate an
audio-visual program (AV) for staff training in operation and maintenance of
irrigation systems. A small classroom and some related facilities financed
by GOI are nearing completion, and consultants and counterparts are well along
on the development of about 17 program concepts /l,of which 7 programs
(slides synchronized with sound tapes) on operation and maintenance have been
completed. An initial test group of trainees has been exposed to the first
seven programs, a trial instructor's training stession has been held and the
response has been extremely encouraging. About 50 program concepts and 18
full programs would remain to be completed before the expiration of the
present contract.
30.       The present terms of reference and contract with the expatriate
consultant (NEDECO) extend through June 1977. A major portion of the
initial contract time and effort has been expended in engaging and training
counterpart staff in AV technology, procedures, and conceptualization.
The language barrier has been more significant than in many other joint
expatriate - counterpart efforts. In the operation and maintenance field,
the program would be directed primarily to Pengamats (watermasters) and Jurus
(ditchriders, gatetenders and damtenders), but Seksis (section heads) and
Wilayahs (district heads) would also to exposed to the program. If the
program is expanded to cover construction supervision, the comparable audience
would include i spection foremen, subforemen and site engineers, as well as
district heads.
31.       The programs are intended to be utilized throughout Indonesia. The
many dialects and colloquial terminologies, varying degrees of technical and
educational levels of the intended AV program audience, and the fact that the
programs are written in English but delivered in Bahasa Indonesian make it
necessary to assure that the nuances and semantics of the translations are
applicable throughout Indonesia.  In many instances, technical terminology
varies over the country and over varying educational levels, which compounds
difficulties in developing a fully comprehensives narrative.
32.       A Steering Committee has been established within the DGWRD to moni-
tor and advise on the direction of the AV program. Because of the success of
the first test-training effort, the Committee rescognized that the program
/1 A program concept is a description of the subject matter for which a
detailed scenario and text will be developed; a scenario consists of
detailed instructions as to what slides and accompanying narrative text
should be prepared.



AUNEX 4
Page 9
could be equally valuable in the construction supervision field, where quali-
fied technicians for PROSIDA's projects are at a premium. The Steering
Committee has, therefore, recommended that the ongoing program be fully
completed and that it be extended to provide approximately 50 programs that
encompass construction supervision for PROSIDA field staff.
33.       The project includes extension of the existing assistance contract
with NEDECO to enable them to complete 166 program concepts (116 for O&M and
50 for construction supervision) and 116 programs (slides synchronized with
sound tapes) on operation and maintenance and and 50 programs on construction
supervision. Acquisition of additional AV equipment to provide each of
the 26 provinces with the full AV training capability, further training
of counterpart AV staff in AV technology (photograpy, cartography, cinema-
tography, graphic arts), text writing and language training (English), by
local instructors is also included in the project.
34.       In addition, the project would include the construction of an AV
training center consisting of classrooms, reproduction studio and laboratory,
and offices with a total floor area of about 1,000 sq m, including all asso-
ciated facilities, furniture and equipment (Table 5). Also included would be
a dormitory for 120 trainees, 8 teacher's quarters of 125 sq m each, electrical
distribution lines, water supply system, and rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing buildings, as required.
Cirebon-Rentang Irrigation System Detailed Design
35.       Construction of tertiary irrigation systems for the 88,000 ha
Cirebon Subproject and for the 92,000 ha Rentang Subproject was included
in Loan 1100-IND. It was anticipated that PROSIDA would design and lay out
the systems and construct the canal structures, but that the farmers would
excavate the canals and drains and construct the embankments under an aided
self-help program.
36.       Under Loan 1100-IND financial assistance was provided for construc-
tion of the works but no assistance was provided for design and layout. GOI
has now realized that the central and subproject design staff of PROSIDA have
a capability to design and provide construction drawings for an area of only
about 25,000 ha within the projected timetable for construction.
37.       This portion of the project would assist in financing local consul-
tants to carry out the design and preparation of construction drawings for
the remaining 155,000 ha in the Cirebon and Rentang systems. Similar assis-
tance was provided in Loan 1268-IND for 100,000 ha of tertiary systems.
An increasing number of qualified local consultants have the capability to
perform this work and keep the tertiary construction program on schedule.
Mapping
38.       The status of mapping in Indonesia has improved steadily during the
period in which Bank assistance for irrigation development has been available.
Unfortunately, however, most of the mapping has been accomplished on a site-
specific crash basis to meet immediate and urgent needs (Table 6). On many



ANNEX 4
Page 10
existing and ongoing PROSIDA-managed projects, the lack of adequate large
scale maps significantly hinders comprehensive project-wide planning, design,
construction, operation, and maintenance of irrigation systems, especially at
the tertiary and quaternary levels.
39.       To correct this deficiency, and in anticipation of the construction
of tertiary and quaternary irrigation systems, including drains, on all
irrigation projects under PROSIDA management, the Government has requested
Bank assistance under the proposed project in ca[rrying out the remaining
mapping on the service areas of all PROSIDA systems./l This would involve
aerial photography of about 380,000 ha, production of rectified photomosaics
for about 450,000 ha, and contour mapping on about 800,000 ha. Aerial
photography will be at a scale of 1:10,000, and rectified photomosaics will
be produced at a scale of 1:5,000. Contour mapping will also be at a scale of
1:5,000 with a contour interval of 0.5 m.
Records Depository and Retrieval System
40.       PROSIDA is currently implementing five Bank Group-assisted projects.
Because of urgency, many of the projects were initiated without fully develop-
ing within PROSIDA the capability to effectively handle some of the mushroom-
ing administrative and supporting services that compounded with each succes-
sive project. Notable among these deficiences aLre the absence of a text
processing system and a sound, systematic and coordinated methodology and
apparatus for filing, correlating, cross-referencing and retrieving the
voluminous reports, records and other documents that not only precede but
increase in number following execution of a Bank loan or credit. Although
PROSIDA has up to now managed to maintain reasonable order of these pyramid-
ing records with minimal staff, it has become obvious that the workload and
quantity of materials that must be maintained for record purposes and be
available for prompt retrieval is reaching unmanageable proportions.
41.       The Records Depository and Retrieval System is  intended to achieve
systematic storage and retrieval of the more than 100,000 documents, drawings,
records, etc. that have accumulated thus far on Bank assisted work as well as
to accommodate the continuing influx of similar materials that are coming in
at a rate in excess of 10,000 annually. The text processing and typing
system would enable PROSIDA to cope with the increasing number of contract
documents and reports that it has to produce.
42.       Included in this portion of the project is construction of a 50 sq m
climate-controlled building at the DGWRD compound in Jakarta; procurement of
text processing and typing equipment, microfilm or microfiche equipment for
drawings and documents, reader/printer for reproduction of stored material,
and film storage equipment, technical assistance for system development;
and overseas and local training of staff in text processing and records
management.
/1 Including the SEDEKU irrigation system to be rehabilitated by PROSIDA
under the Irrigation IX project, for which a US$35 million loan was
concurrently negotiated with this project.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIII
Madiun Rehabilitation, Stage I, Details of Areas
Irrigated Area, ha
Irrigation      Service Unit                 Tech-   Semi-    Non
Area        No.       Name                nical   Tech.   Tech.       Total
Ngawi           16   Pilang Bango               574        -       -        574
17   Brendil                    264       -        -        264
18   Semen Kali Buntung         187       -        -        187
19   Andong Bawah            3,433        -        -     3,433
20   Ketonggo Bawah          2,009        -        -     2,009
20a  Ketonggo Atas            1,004   1,223       96     2,323
Barat           21   Gandong                  6,680   1,619        -      8,299
21a  Gandong Kerik              847       -        -        847
22   Tinil Bawah              4,011       -        -     4,011
25   Sumber Gareng Gareng         -     417        -        417
27   Kuluhan Bawah            1,392       -   1,069      2,461
76   Madiun Canal            11,669      15       62    11,746
76a  Guyung                     978       -      239     1,217
76b  Tejo                       556       -        -       556
77   Pancur                       -       -      144       144
78   Jungke                     951       -        -       951
Ponorogo        34   Cemer Bawah                836       -      440     1,276
34a  Cemer Atas               1,570     645   1,886      4,101
39   Slahung                  2,336      69      926     3,331
43   Sungkur                  1,286   3,241      646     5,173
44   Galok Bawah                329       -   2,331      2,660
Pono & Madiun  33   Asin Bawah                6,953        -       -      6,953
Madiun          51   Batil Bawah              1,201        -       -      1,201
55   Brangkal Bawah           1,193       -        -     1,193
56   Catur Bawah              5,055       -        -     5,055
70   Notopuro                5,128        -        -     5,128
Total                  60,442   7,229   7,839    75,510



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIII
Madiun Rehabilitation, Stage I, Inventory of Works
Canal Length, km                           Structures, Number
Irrigation      Service Unit                         Primary       Secondary      Headworks       Turnouts      Bridges       Other /a
Area          No.      Name                       E       R       E       R      E        R       E    R       E    R       E    R
Ngawi           16      Pilangbango         -      0.7   0.5       2.1    2.1        1      1        7    7       6    3      4    3
17     Brendil                      -     -       0.7    0.7        1      1        2    2       -    -      1    -
18     Semen Kali Buntung           -     -       0.3    0.3        1      1        1    1       -    -      1    1
19     Andong Bawah               5.5   5.5    23.2   23.2          2      1       21   10       2    -    24    3
20     Ketonggo Bawah             4.7   1.4    13.0   11.0          3      1       13    9    28       1    14    7
20a    Ketonggo Atas                -     -       3.8    3.8       35    28        19   19       1    -    17    5
Barat           21      Gandong                    4.2   4.2    60.3   27.0         70    50        48   43       8    7   196  163
21a    Gandong Kerik               -      -       4.8    4.8        2      2        8    8    14   14        9    7
22     Tinil Bawah                6.6   6.5    23.0   15.4          5      5       30   27    10    9   118  108
25     Sumber Gorang Gareng         -     -        -       -        5      0        -    -       -    -      5    5
27     Kuluhan Bawah                -     -       3.2     1.3       3      3        5    5       -    -      1    1
76     Madiun Kanal              26.3  26.3    59.5   59.5         13    10        70   65    53   24    77   56
76a    Guyung                     3.5   3.5       4.9    4.0        2      1        7    7       7    7      7    7
76b    Tejo                        1.4   1.4      4.6    4.6        1      1        7    7       6    6      7    7
77     Pancur                      -      -        -       -        6      0        -    -       -    -      2    2
78     Jungke                     1.3   1.3       4.8    4.8        1      1        9    9       1    1    14    5
Ponorogo        34      Cemer Bawah                 -      -       2.4    2.4       10      0        3    1       2    -    10    7
34a    Cemer Atas                 4e1   4=1    37=1   25o8         37    31        40   34       1    -    12    6
39     Slahung                     1.0   1.0      3.6    0.6       42    41        11    2       4    -    24   14
43     Sungkur                    4.7   4.7      19.8   19.6        9      8       51   48       3    2       3    3
44     Galok Bawah                  -     -      14.7   14.7        7      7       22   22       2    2       7    7
Pono. & Madiun 33       Asin Bawah                 7.2   5.2    56.9   49.6          5      3       61   53    72   35   110   67
Madiun           51     Batil Bawah                  -     -       6.5     5.7      10      6        9    6    13    4    21    6
55     Brangkal Bawah             3.5   2.7       6.7     6.4        1     1       11   11       7    6    28   16
56     Catur Bawah               11.7  10.0    37.2   28.3          8      8       55   30    53   24    78   38
70     Notopuro                   7.1   7.1    38.7   38.7          5      5       68   67    20    -    33    2
Total                     93.5  85.4   431.8  354.3    285   216          578  493   313  145   823  546
.." X
E;  Existing                                                                                                                                                N 4
R: To be rehabilitated
/a Checks, drops, gates, siphons, wasteways, steplandings and buffalo wallows.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Work Items, Quantities and Unit Prices
Item                                Quantity   Unit      Unit Price /a
(Rp)
I. Madiun Rehabilitation (Stage I)
Housing for O&M staff                    15,725   sq m           50,000
Inspection and access roads                  450   km         3,100,000
Headworks and weirs /b                       213   each      17,500,000
Primary and secondary canals
Earthwork                           3,000,000   cu m              550
Masonry lining                        260,000   sq m            5,700
Canal structures                             920   ea         5,000,000
Drainage canals & structures             L.S.       -       250,000,000
Telephone communications                     338   km           735,000
Tertiary systems                         30,000   ha             81,500
Land acquisition                            250   ha         2,000,000
II. Groundwater Pilot Project
Drilling, installing casing and
developing wells /c                        30   ea.         6,920,000
Pumphouses /d                                 33   ea         3,770,000
Irrigation and drainage canals
Excavation                             25,000   cu m              560
Fill                                   10,000   cu m              470
Lining                                  5,000   sq m              140
Irrigation and drainage structures           15   each          100,000
Inspection and access roads
Rehabilitation                             15   km          5,054,700
New                                       3.5   km          7,209,000



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 2
Item                                Quantity   Unit      Unit Price /a
(Rp)
III. Ciujung Drainage
Drainage structures
Control structures, I bay                    14  ea        21,000,000
2 bays                  9  ea        32,000,000
Diversion weirs, 3 bays                       6  ea        16,000,000
Box culverts, 2-8 barrels                   21  ea          6,000,000
Pipe drains, 50 cm 0                        91  ea          1,600,000
Check dikes                                   6  ea        20,000,000
Primary and secondary drains
Primary drains (by equipment            96,000  cu m              420
Secondary drains (by equipment)   1,400,000  cu m                 450
Secondary drains (by hand labor)  1,400,000  cu m                 560
River earthwork                          125,000  cu m               420
Roads and bridges
Bituminuous road surfacing /e                5  km         42,000,000
Gravel surfacing                             50  km         2,000,000
Bridges                                      5  ea         33,000,000
Land acquisition                           350  ha          1,700,000
IV.  Audio-visual Training Center
Office, clas-sroom and reproduction
center                                    1,000  sq m           80,000
Dormitory for 120 trainees                  1,800  sq m           80,000
Earthfill for compound                     64,000  cu m            1,000
Housing for staff (8 units)                 1,000  sq m           70,000
Garage for 10 cars                             150  sq m          40,000
Internal roads and drainage                  L.S.   -         30,000,000
Masonry fence                               1,600  sq m            5,000
Emergency generating set (10 KVA)
and foundation                             L.S.   -         10,000,000
Transformer, 25 KVA                          L.S.   -         18,000,000
Water supply system, including
deepwell and pump                          L.',.   -        23,000,000
Finishing and landscaping                  40,000  sq m              500
Reconditioning existing classrooms             400  sq m           5,000
Land acquisition                           20,0()0  sq m          10,000
For footnotes, see p. 3.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 3
/a Not including engineering, administration and overhead (7%), vehicles
and equipment, physical contingencies (25%) and price contingencies.
lb Includes desilting basins.
/c Including installation of pumps and diesel engines.
/d Including foundation for diesel engines.
/e Includes sub-base, base, bituminous surface, shoulders, and side
drains.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Project Development Costs
Description                              US$/ha /a   US$/family
I. Madiun Rehabilitation (Stage I)
Housing & inspection & access roads            90
Headworks and weirs                            154
Primary and secondary canals                  315
Drainage works                                  10
Communications                                  10
Tertiary works /b                             250
Land acquisition                                20
Total                                    849 /c         430
II. Groundwater Pilot Project
Inspection & access roads                     148
Tubewells and pumphouses                      588
Turbine pumps & diesel engines                520
Irrigation & drainage network                  50
Total                                  1,306            650
III.  Ciujung Drainage
Drainage structures                           594
Primary and secondary drains                  754
River earthwork                                23
Inspection & access roads                     182
Bridges                                        91
Land acquisition                              320
Total                                  1,964            980
/a  Not including price contingencies (26% of base cost plus physical
contingencies) and engineering, supervision and administration (10%).
lb Based on 30,000 ha.
/c For systems with tertiaries only; for those without tertiaries,
rehabilitation cost would be US$599/ha.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials /a
Unit Cost       Amount
Item                               Quantity      -  (US$) -------
I. Madiun Rehabilitation
Vehicles
Jeeps                                    15          7,000        105,000
Pick-ups                                  5         10,000          50,000
Motorcycles                              81             500         40,500
Bicycles                                280              50        14,000
Subtotal                                                     209,500
Construction and Maintenance Equipment
Dragline (3/4 cu yd) & mats               2         75,000        150,000
Backhoe (1 cu yd)                         1         75,000          75,000
Dredge (8 in), pipes & pontoons           1        250,000         250,000
Road rollers, 3.5 tons                    4         30,000        120,000
Hand rollers                              8          7,500          60,000
Truck cranes, 3 tons                      2         30,000          60,000
Tamping rammers, 80 kg                    8         10,000         80,000
Tamping plates, 80 kg                     8         10,000         80,000
Portable concrete mixer, 0.2 cu m         8          7,500         60,000
4 in 0 Water pumps & engine, 12 hp        8          5,000         40,000
3 in 0 Water pumps & engine, 8 hp         8          4,000         32,000
2 in 0 Water pumps & engine, 6 hp         8          3,000         24,000
Photocopier                               1          7,500           7,500
Workshop equipment, set                   1          Lot          100,000
Subtotal                                                  1,138,500
Instruments & Tools
Theodolites & tripod                      4          2,500         10,000
Levels & tripod                           4            500          2,000
Current meters                            4          1,500          6,000
Stationary equipment                      4           Lot          10,000
Small tools, sets                         4           Lot          10,000
Subtotal                                                      38,000
Total                                                    1,386,000



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 2
Unit Cost      Amount
Item                             Quantity       ------ (US$) ------
II. Groundwater Pilot Project
Pilot Areas
Wells and pumps
450 mm 0 casing                         39 m          154         6,000
300 mm 0 casing                      1,326 m           74        98,000
200 mm 0 casing                      2,082 m           40        83,000
200 mm 0 screens                     1,146 m          179       205,000
Turbine pumps with diesel engines       37         32,000     1,184,000
Spare parts                            Lot          -           140,000
Subtotal                                                 1,716,000
Vehicles
Fuel tank truck, 2,000 1 cap.            2         15,000        30,000
Jeeps                                    5         7,000         35,000
Station wagons                           1         10,000        10,000
Executive vehicles                       2        15,000         30,000
Office equipment                         Lot           -            18,000
Hydro & geohydrologic equipment          Lot           -           50,000
Topographic survey equipment             Lot           -             6,000
Misc. equipment and spare parts          Lot           -            27,000
Subtotal                                                   206,000
Subtotal, Pilot Areas                                    1,922,000
Study Area
Vehicles
Jeeps                                    3          7,000        21,000
Motorcycles                             10            500          5,000
Bicycles                                30             50         1,500
Turbine pumps with diesel engines          7         32,000        224,000
Spare parts                              Lot            -          25,000
Subtotal, Study Area                                       276,500
Total                                                 2,198,500



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 3
Unit Cost    Amount
Item                                  Quantity    ------ (US$) ------
III.  Ciujung Drainage
Vehicles
Pick ups                                     2          10,000      20,000
Four-wheel drive                             4           7,000      28,000
Motorcycles                                 15             625       7,500
Subtotal                                                       55,500
Hydrological equipment
Water balance equipment                    Lot            -         62,800
Water level recorders, various               4           1,100       4,400
Boat (20 hp)                                 2           3,000       6,000
Boats (10 hp)                                1           1,800       1,800
Subtotal                                                      75,000
Total                                                        130,500
IV.  Records Depository and Retrieval System
Microfilmer for engineering drawings           1          30,000      30,000
Reader for engineering drawings                1           6,000       6,000
Microfilmer for documents                      1           7,000       7,000
Reader/printer for documents                   1           6,000       6,000
Storage cabinets                             Lot            -          5,000
Film stock (5 years operation)               Lot            -          4,000
Air conditioners and other accessories   Lot                -         10,000
Text processing system                         2          45,000      90,000
Total                                                        156,000
V. Audio-Visual Equipment
Photography, film and studio equipment
35 mm still camera with accessories          2           3,000       6,000
16 mm movie camera with sound syn-
chronizing system and tape recorder    1              20,000      20,000
16 mm movie camera with zoom lens            1           7,000       7,000
Slide projectors with lenses                 2             900       1,800
Dissolve control                             1           1,800       1,800
Program control                              1           2,400       2,400
Tape synchrocoder                            1             500         500
Movie projector, optic and magnetic
playback                                   2           3,300       6,600



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 4
Unit Cost    Amount
Item                                  Quantity         -- (US$) ------
Turntable                                    1           1,500       1,500
Reel deck                                    1           1,750       1,750
Sound mixer                                 1           4,000       4,000
Preamplifier                                1           1,500        1,500
Microphone and boom                         2              375         750
Cassette reproduction machine               1           6,600       6,600
Sound system                                3              400      1,200
Editing equipment for slides and film    L.S.             -         6,200
Study carrel equipment                      6          10,000      60,000
Air conditioning system                     L.S.           -       33,900
Electrical lighting equipment and
accessories                               L.S.          -         9,500
Subtotal                                                     173,000
VCR production. center equipment
Camera and control equipment                3           8,933      26,800
Video cassettes (synchronized,
editing and duplication)                  2           8,675      17,350
VCR color monitors                          4           1,475       5,900
Video audio distributor for CCTV use        1           1,900       1,900
Intercommunication headsets                 6               88        530
Video outdoor camera (field operation)   2              6,500      13,000
Video cassette (field operation)            1           4,500       4,500
Special effects generator and multi--
signals generator                         1           5,640       5,640
Production accessories                      L.S.          -        10,380
Slide duplication machine                   1          20,000      20,000
Subtotal                                                    106,000
Production Center Materials
For slide/tapes production (100 programs)L.S.             -       178,000
For movie film production (12 programs)  L.S.             -        18,000
For VCR production (8 programs)             L.S.          -        36,000
Subtotal                                                    232,000
Provincial Training Center Equipment (26 Provinces)
Videocassette and video monitor            26           3,450      89,700
Movie projector                            26           1,896      49,300
Subtotal                                                    139,000
Total                                                       650,000
Grand Total                                               4,521,000
/a Equipment to be procured under the proJect would be augmented by those
purchased under earlier credits for subprojects that have been completed,
or are nearing completion.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Inventory of Maps on PROSIDA's Systems
I Service    I   Aerial Photographs, 1:10,000          |      Photo Maps, 1:5,000           |          Contour Maps, 1:5,000
Subproject     | Area        | Total        Completed     Balance    | Total        Completed    Balance  |   Total         Completed      Balance
(Ha)          (Ha)          (Ha)         (Ha)       I (Ha)           (Ha)        (Ha)    |    (Ha)          (Ha)          (Ha)
Credit 127-IND
Way Seputih        | 25,000          -             -            - _-                        - _  _                   57,000       57,000          -
Cisedane           f 42,000    1   70,000          70,000       -         |  70,000       70,000         -     |     70,000       34,000         36,000La
Rentang            | 92,000    I 165,000          165,000       -            165,000     165,000         -     |    165,000      165,000            -
Glapan-Sedadi      I 47,400    I 105,000          105,000       -         I -               - _          _           105,000      78,600         26,400/a  I
Credit 220-IND                                                              |
Ciujung            I 24,300    I  65,800           65,800       -         |  65,800       65,800         -     I     65,800          -           65,800/b
Pemali-Comal       1 123,000    I 575,000         375,000     200,000    I 261,000        76,000      185,0001bl    250,000          -          250,000
Sadang            I 54,600    I 115,300           115,300       -             92,000      92,000         -     j     92,000       72,000         20,000
Credit 289-IND
Pekalen-Sampean   I 229,000    I 535,000          135,000     400,000/a  | 430,000        30,000      400,000  |    430,000       30,000        400,000
Sampean Baru      |  9,800          90,000        60,000       30,000    |  35,000        35,000         -     |      35,000      35,000            -
Loan 1100-IND
Cirebon            I 88,000    I 335,000          335,000       -         I 212,000      132,400       79,600Lal    212,000      113,000         99,000
Madiun             | 140,000       410,000        310,000     100,000        350,000     310,000       40,000  |    350,000           -         350,000Lc  I
Total          1 875,100    12,466,100      1,736,100      730,000    11,680,800      976,200      704,600  |  1,831,800      584,600      1,247,200
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ I  _  _   _ _ I  I__   _   _   _  _ _   _   _  _   _     I__     _   _   _ _  _   _  _   _     I__    _  _   _ _   _   _ _  _   _ _
/a  In progress under Loan 1100-IND.
/b  In progress under Loan 1268-IND.                                                                                                                              a >
/c 160,000 ha in progress under Loan 1268-IND.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
IBRD Assistance for Mapping on PROSIDA's Systems
Subproject                   Item                     Loan 1100-IND                 Loan 1268-IND                  Irrigation VIII
(Ha)          (US$)/a            (Ha)        (US$)/a           (Ha)         (USS)/a
Credit 127-IND
Cisedane                  Contour Maps              36,500       143,000/b             -            -
Glapan-Sedadi             Contour Maps              26,400        81,000/b             -            -
Credit 220-IND
Ciujung                   Contour Maps                -             -                65,800      190,000/c         -                -
Pemali-Comal              Aerial Photographs          -             -                  -            -           200,000          96,000
Photo Maps                  -             -              185,000      428,000/c          -                -
Contour Maps                -             -                 -             -           250,000        720,000
Sadang                    Contour Maps                -             -                               -            20,000          57,760
Credit 289-IND
Pekalen-Sampean           Aerial Photographs    400,000          146,000/b             -            -              -                -
Photo Maps                  -             -                 -             -           400.000        924,850
Contour Maps                -             -                  -            -           400,000      1,155,200
Loan 1100-IND
Cirebon                   Photo Maps               79,600        124,000/b             -            -               -               -
Contour Maps                -             -                  -            -            98,900        284,623
Madiun                    Aerial Photographs    310,000          497,000/                                        100,000         48,000
Photo Maps              150,000                          160,000       370,000/c         -                -
Contour Maps                -             -              350,000   1,010,800/d           -                -
SEDEKU /f                 Aerial photo                                                                            80,000         48,000
Photo maps                                                                             50,000        144,500
Contour maps                                                                           30,000        108,300
Total                                                      991,000/b                    1,999,000                      3,587,000
Loan Amount                                              1,000,000                      2,000,000                      3,600,000/e
/a  Based on disbursement percentage of 80% of total cost.
/b  In progress.  Contracts awarded under Loan 1100-IND.
/c  Tenders issued but not yet awarded.
/d  Tender not yet issued.
/e  To be provided under Irrigation VIII.  Total cost of mapping under Irrigation VIII is based on Rp 250/ha for aerial photo-
graphs; Rp 1,200/ha for photo maps; and Rp 1,500/ha for contour maps.
/f  An irrigation system to be financed under a loan for the Irrigation IX project, which would be negotiated concurrently with
the proposed project.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Madiun Rehabilitation
1.        The principal water supply for the 140,000 ha Madiun irrigation
system is derived from the streamflow of the Madiun and Solo rivers and
their numerous tributaries, which have a combined catchment area of about
9,770 sq km. This supply is augmented by groundwater and the discharge from
numerous springs in the area. Except for seven small reservoirs (two on-
stream and five off-stream, supplied by diversion canals) that regulate the
flood flows of five tributaries, the principal water supply is unregulated.
The run-of-river flows considerably exceed the wet season supplemental
irrigation needs, but they are fully utilized in the dry season. Since the
existing system contains as many as two to four headworks and intakes on the
same stream, the return flows from the upper service units are also fully
utilized. Because of the efficient utilization of return flows, the Madiun
irrigation system is capable of sustaining a cropping intensity of about
208% (113% paddy and 95% sugarcane and palawija). Under the project, no
additional supplies would be developed but, compared to the prevailing
situation (Annex 4), the rehabilitation and improvement of existing struc-
tures is expected to bring about a more timely delivery of water and a more
equitable sharing of available supplies, as well as shortages. These improve-
ments would result from the reduction of losses at diversion points, in
canals, and through spillage; greater conveyance capacity; and better area-
wide and local water control.
2.        The Madiun irrigation system is so complex that it precludes, under
present circumstances, precise analysis of the water supply available to each
of the 117 distinct systems in the 140,000 ha network. However, long-term
records on the two main rivers, extensive precipitation data, and numerous
irrigation diversion records make the calculation of available supplies pos-
sible on a zone-by-zone basis. To this end, the entire service area was
divided into five water supply zones, based on the geographic location of
the water sources and the interconnected service units supplied by them. The
calculated dependable water supply, by zones, is summarized in Table 1.
3.        Water requirements of wet- and dry-season paddy, sugarcane and
palawija were based on the crop calendar in Chart 16987 and the basic data
summarized in Table 2. For irrigated paddy, percolation was taken at 1.0 mm/
day, area of nursery beds was estimated at 5% of the paddy field area, and
puddling water requirement for nursery beds was calculated at 150 mm and for
paddy fields at 200 mm (100 mm for soil saturation plus 100 mm for maintain-
ing a water layer). Flooding immediately after, and for the two-week period
following transplanting, was estimated to be 60 mm. Subsequent water appli-
cations to compensate for evapotranspiration were based on the recommendations



ANNEX 5
Page 2
contained in the paper "Computation of Irrigation Water Requirements for Wet
Sawah Paddy," which was prepared by PROSIDA in 1973 with consultant assistance
(NEDECO), and is considered to contain the most up-to-date data applicable to
Indonesia. Potential evapotranspiration rates were calculated by the Penman
formula, using a reflection coefficient (albedo) of 0.25 and meteorological
data compiled in Madiun. These rates were modifi'ed by multiplying them with
the appropriate coefficients for paddy, sugarcane and palawija to obtain
evapotranspiration rates for these crops at various stages of their growth.
The dependable rainfall was taken as the rainfall equalled or exceeded in four
years out of five and, because of its nonuniformity, the 140,000 ha service
area was divided into four precipitation zones (Table 2). Zoning for purposes
of precipitation analyses was based on the geographic location of 29 selected
rain gauges, all of which have 25 concurrent years of record (1951-1975),
allowing computation of areal rainfall for each zone by the Thiessen method.
The effective rainfall was calculated by applying the following criteria to
the dependable rainfall determined for each zone: (a) 80% of daily rainfall
ranging from 5 to 80 mm is effective; (b) for daily rainfall over 80 mm,
only 80 mm is considered effective; and (c) in no case should computed effec-
tive rainfall for any period exceed the sum of evapotranspiration and perco-
lation for the same period. The results obtained by adopting the above cri-
teria have been verified to be within 10% of the values obtained by making a
day-to-day analysis of five years of continuous precipitation records, taking
into account the pondage which paddy can tolerate at various growth stages.
4.        The monthly net crop water requirement for each precipitation zone,
as computed on the above basis, is summarized in Table 4. It is expressed in
mm and is equal to the sum of all required water applications less effective
rainfall. Finally, the monthly diversion requirement was calculated for each
water supply zone to complete the water balance study (Table 5). The diver-
sion requirement takes into account the cropped area and stage of crop growth,
and includes an allowance of 15% for field application losses, exclusive of
percolation losses, and 30% for conveyance losses (about 60% overall irriga-
tion efficiency). Shortages in supply occur in June, July and September and
are generally below 20% for Zones I, III and IV. In Zones II and V, shortages
are not as damaging as they might at first appear since they are based upon
the water supply available in four years out five, they can be lessened by
increasing the use of groundwater, and the affected crops are the more
drought-resistant palawija crops.
Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Project
5.        Investigations.  The adequacy of the water supply projected for the
pilot project is in this case dependent upon the geohydrology of the pilot
areas. In the course of groundwater investigations undertaken by consultants
(ELC-NK) in the area since November 1972, the tectonic structure, geological
history, lithology, aquifer system and characteristics, recharge and discharge
capabilities and water quality have al:L been examiined and analyzed. A review
of existing literature was conducted and more than 250 existing dug wells
were monitored, (85 on a monthly basis and 5 equipped with automatic daily
water recorders). Six test holes and 12 test wells totaling 3,700 m in depth
have been drilled to maximum depths of 350 m. Eight of the test wells have



ANNEX 5
Page 3
been pump-tested to date. A total of 44 shallow exploratory wells were con-
structed and pump tested, and during 1977, 3 additional test holes and 55 t_St
wells totaling 1,500 m in depth would be drilled. About 110 geoelectric logs
(including 2,000 m of Schlumberger) were conducted and interpreted to depths
of 400 meters on project constructed wells and test holes, and 18 soundings
(including 500 m of Schlumberger logs) were obtained for selected dug and
bore holes.
6.        Present Groundwater Utilization.  Most of the towns and villages
in the project area obtain their domestic water supply from dug wells.
These wells are commonly brick-lined, protected by a parapet wall and 005 to
1.5 m in diameter. Well depths depend upon the depth to the water table
during the driest months of the dry season (September-October), with the
deepest of the more than 250 surveyed, extending 35.5 m below ground surface.
Table 5 summarizes the current (1975-76) use of groundwater in the project
area.
7.        Aquifer System.  The four generalized groundwater systems idsrlzi-ls
in the project area include: (a) a phreatic aquifer present througnout the
project area, which occurs in alluvial and terrace deposits (Holocene and
upper Pleistocene epochs); (b) a shallow (10-70 m depth) artesian aquifer
just underlying the phreatic zone and incompletely separated from it (upper
and middle Pleistocene epochs); (c) a mid-depth artesian aquifer known as the
Kabuh Beds, which lie 30-100 m below ground level and whose maximum thickness
is about 150 m (middle Plistocene epoch); and (d) a deep artesian aquifer
known as the Puncangan Beds (lower Pleistocene Epoch), which lie 80 to 275 m
below ground surface. The thickness of the Puncangan Beds is indetermirate,
as no drilled hole has yet entirely penetrated them.
8.        The quality of the underground water ranges from good to excellent
for irrigation purposes in all but the Puncangan beds. It has a low sodium
absorption ratio (SAR), low to medium salinity hazard and is slightly alkaline9
Conductivity ranges from about 200-750 micromhos per centimeter (mmhos/cem)
hardness as calcium carbonate is low to moderate, and the water is slightly
alkaline. In the Puncangan beds, only two samples were analyzed for chemical
composition.  These waters were slightly alkaline, of low to moderate hardness
moderate SAR and with electrical conductivity of 600-900 mmhos/cm.i  The water
is considered suitable for irrigation under normal conditions. Additional
chemical analyses will be made in the course of continuing investigations.
9.        Based on investigations and analyses made thus far, there is no
doubt that the groundwater supplies in the project area are more than adeqtuaLe
to supply the projected use for the three pilot areas on a sustained basis.
Preliminary estimates indicate that about 30,000 ha could be irrigated from
groundwater in the project area.
10.       The crop calendar and water requirements for the three area schemes
included in the groundwater pilot project are based upon climatologic and
agronomic data utilized for the Madiun Rehabilitation Subproject. The avail-
able water supplies for the Balong and Caruban areas are those availabLe from
the surface water supply system from which they are currently served. There



ANNEX 5
Page 4
is no surface water supply from the Tanon area. The project water require-
ment to be supplied from groundwater is the difference between the calculated
diversion requirement and the available surface supply.
11.       The water balances for the technically and semitechnically irri-
gated portions of the Balong area are shown on Charts 16988 and 16989,
respectively. Chart 16990 presents similar informnation for the rainfed Tanon
area, and Chart 17144 for the fully technically irrigated Caruban area.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
MADIUN REHABILITATION
Dependable Project Water Supply /a
Water Supply         May         June      July       Aug.       Sept.      Oct.
Zones              ------------------- cu m/sec -----------------------
Zone "I" (52,590 ha) /b
Surface water       11.0        8.8        6.9        5.9        5.1        5.7
Phreatic water        -          -
Artesian water         -          -          -         -          -          -
Total                11.0       8.8        6.9        5.9        5.1        5.7
Zone "II" (26,860 ha)
Surface water         1.42      0.88       0.62       0.52       0.43       0.52
Phreatic water        -          -          -          -          -          -
Artesian water       0.16       0.16       0.16       0.16       0.16       0.16
Total                 1.58       1.04      0.78       0.68       0.59       0.68
Zone "III" (120,970 ha)
Surface water       29.88      18.91      13.64      10.52       9.83      12.38
Phreatic water        -                     -          -          -          -
Artesian water        0.17       0.17      0.17       0.17       0.17       0.17
Total               30.05      19.08      13.81      10.69      10.00      12.55
Zone "IV" (76,770 ha)
Surface water        8.82       6.87       5.37       4.55       4.21       4.38
Phreatic water         -          -         -          -          -          -
Artesian water         -          -          -         -          -          -
Total                8.82       6.87       5.37       4.55       4.21       4.38
Zone "V" (12,210 ha)
Surface water        0.64       0.33       0.20       0.12       0.08       0.09
Phreatic water        0.13      0.13       0.13       0.13       0.13       0.13
Artesian water         -          -         -          -          -           -
Total                 0.77      0.46       0.33       0.25       0.21       0.22
Entire Project
Surface water       51.76      35.79      26.73      21.61      19.65      23.07
Phreatic water        0.13      0.13       0.13       0.13       0.13       0.13
Artesian water        0.33       0.33       0.33      0.33       0.33       0.33
Total               52.22      36.25      27.19      22.07      20.11      23.53
/a  Equaled or exceeded in four years out of five.
/b See Table 3.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
MADIUN IRRIGATION SYSTEH
Basic Data for Water Balance Study /a
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    Nay    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec
Potential Evapotranspiration /b, mm/day   5.58   5.76   5.61   5.73   5.28   5.80   6.72   7.39   8.56   8.24   6.87   5.98
Crop Coefficients:
Wet-season paddy                           1.30   1.24   1.12   1.00    -          -      -       -       -      1.00   1.09   1.20
Dry-season paddy                            -      1.00   1.09   1.28   1.34   1.16   1.00   0.31   0.36   0.46   0.64   0.83
Sugarcane                                   -          -           -      0.30   0.30   0.30    -         -       -      -       -
Sugarcan  0.98   1.08   1.09   1.08   1.05   1.03   1.03   1.00    -            -       -      -
Palawija I                                  -       -     0.15   0.20   0.26   0.28   0.26    -           -       -      -       -
Pilawija II                                 -       -       -      -       -      0.15   0.20   0.26   0.28   0.27    -          -
Evapotranspiration, mr/day
Wet-season paddy                           7.3    7.1    6.3    5.7        -       -      -       -       -      8.2    7.5    7.2
Dry-season paddy                            -      5.8    6.1    7.3    7.1    6.7    6.7         -       -       -      -       -
Sugarcane                                   -       -       -      -      1.6    1.7    2.0    2.3    3.1    3.8    4.4    5.0
5.5    6.2    6.1    6.2    5.5    6.0    6.9    7.4          -       -       -      -
Palawija I                                  -       -     0.8    1.1    1.4    1.6    1.7         -       -       -      -       -
Palawija II                                 -       -       -      -       -      0.9    1.3    1.9    2.4    2.2        -       -
Dependable Rainfall /c, mm
Zone A /d                                   280    284    292    196    133         57      55     37      45    118    208    253
Zone B                                      207    209    214    150    106         30      30     15      18      60    129    195
Zone C                                      230    232    238    166    117         44      34     17      20      67    143    217
Zone D                                      219    220    226    158    111         42      32     16      19      64    136    206
Effective Rainfall /e, mm
Zone A                                      224    227    234    157    106         46      44     30      36      94    166    202
Zone B                                       166    167    171    120       85      24      24     12      14      48    103    156
Zone C                                       184    186    190    133       94      35      27     14      16      54    144    174
Zone D                                       175    176    181    126       89      34      26     13      15      51    109    165
/a  Projected crop calendar used in the study is presented in Chart 16987; percolation is taken at 1.0 mm/day; area of nursery
beds is estimated at 5% of total paddy field area; puddling water requirement for nursery beds is calcuated at 150 mm and
for paddy fields at 200 mm (100 uam for soil saturation and 100 mm for maintaining water layer); pondage of 60 mm is built
up over a 2-week period following transplanting; conveyance efficiency is estimated at 70% and field application effi-
ciency at 85%, for an overall irrigation efficiency of 60%.
/b Calculated by the Penman formula using a reflection coefficient (albedo) of 0.25 for cut grass, which has been shown to be
the most appropriate for Indonesia (see PROSIDA paper prepared with consultant assistance (NEDECO) entitled "Computation
of Irrigation Water Requirement for Wet Sawah Paddy", Jakarta, September 1973).
/c Rainfall equaled or exceeded in four years out of five based on the 25-year period from 1951 to 1975.
/d Precipitation Zones based on geographic distribution of 29 selected rain gauges over the entire project area, allowing
computation of areal rainfall for each zone by the Thiessen method. Included in Zone A are service units numbered 1-20
and 20a; Zone B, No. 70-79; Zone D, No. 37-42; Zone C, all remaining unit; not in Zones A, B and C.
/e Based on the criteria that 80% of daily rainfall ranging from 5 to 80 mm is effective, and for daily rainfall over 80 mm,
only 80 mm is considered effective. In no case, however, should effective rainfall exceed the sum of evapotranspiration
and percolation.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
MADIUN REHABILITATION
Cropping Patterns /a by Precipitation and Water Supply Zones
Madiun System - 140,000 ha
Precipitation                            Water Supply Zones /c
Zones /b        Zone "I"  Zone "II"  Zone "III"  Zone "IV"  Zone "V"    Total
----------------------    (ha)   ------------------------------
Zone "A" (33,500 ha)
Wet-season paddy  25,900          170      4,940           490          -       31,500
Dry-season paddy  10,870           80       3,260          290          -       14,500
Sugarcane            1,060         10         200           30          -        1,300
Palawija I          8,260          50       1,580          160          -       10,050
Palawija II         5,210          40         990          110          -        6,350
Subtotal      51,300        350      10,970        1,080          -       63,700
Zone "B" (55,400 ha)
Wet-season paddy         -    12,940        3,290       29,050      6,320       51,600
Dry-season paddy         -      1,430         360        3,210        700        5,700
Sugarcane                -        180          50          390         80          700
Palawija I               -     9,140       2,320        27,190      4,470       43,120
Palawija II              -     2,820        1,740       15,280        640       20,480
Subtotal           -    26,510        7,760       75,120    12,210       121,600
Zone "C" (26,300 ha)
Wet-season paddy       550          -      19,650            -          -       20,200
Dry-season paddy       280          -      9,920             -          -       10,200
Sugarcane              160          -      5,540             -          -        5,700
Palawija I             100          -      3,450             -          -        3,550
Palawija II            200          -      6,850             -          -        7,050
Subtotal       1,290          -      45,410            -          -       46,700
Zone "D" (25,700 ha)
Wet-season paddy         -          -      19,800          200          -       20,000
Dry-season paddy         -          -       3,960           40          -        4,000
Sugarcane                -          -      5,150            50          -        5,200
Palawija I               -          -      11,190          120          -       11,310
Palawija II              -          -     16,730           160          -       16,890
Subtotal           -          -      56,830          570          -       57,400
Total (140,900 ha)
Wet-season paddy  26,450    13,110        47,680        29,740      6,320      123,300
Dry-season paddy  11,150        1,510      17,500        3,540        700       34,400
Sugarcane            1,220        190     10,940           470         80       12,900
Palawija I          8,360      9,190      18,540       27,470      4,470       68,030
Palawija II          5,410      2,860     26,310        15,550        640       50,770
Grand Total  52,590    26,860    120,970          76,770    12,210       289,400
/a  Cropped areas shown are averages of actual areas planted in the last 5 years
in the service units falling within the indicated precipitation and water
supply zones.
/b See footnote /d, Table 1.
/c Based on geographic location of water supply sources and interconnected
service units served by these sources.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
MADIUN REHABILITATION
Net Crop Water Requirements /a
Precipitation       Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  N4ay  Jun   Jul   Aug  Sep   Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Zones          ------- (min) -----------------------------
Zone "A"
Wet-season paddy   67    8   -         5   -      -      -      -    -       3   78  127   288
Dry-season paddy   -        3   -   156  140   145   31         -    -      -    -   -    475
Sugarcane            -      -   -    -    -         3   16    39   51    23    -   -         -
29   41    44   13       -    -       -    -   -    265
PalawijaI            -      -   -    -    -         3    3      -    -      -    -   -        6
PalawijalI           -      -   -    -    -       -      2    25   30       -    -   -       57
Zone "B"
Wet-season paddy  119   65   26   10   -          -      -      -    -    31   86  150   459
Dry-season paddy   -        3  145  187  163   160   34         -    -      -    -   -    692
Sugarcane            -      -   -    -    -       10   29    57   78    70   31   -          -
13   18   62   57    52   16         -    -      -    -   -    493
Palawija I           -      -   -    -    -       21    8       -    -      -    -   -       29
Palawija II          -      -   -    -    -       -    10    40   46    11    -   -    107
Zone "C"
Wet-season paddy  104   47   16    8   -          -      -      -    -       3   86  143   407
Dry-season paddy   -        3  140  176  153   153   34         -    -      -    -   -    659
Sugarcane            -      -   -    -    -        5   29    54   75    60   18   -          -
52   49    49   16       -    -       -    -   -    407
PalawijaI            -      -   -    -    -       10    8       -    -      -    -   -       18
PalawijalI           -      -   -    -    -       -    10    38   44        7    -   -       99
Zone "D"
Wet-season paddy  109   57   23   10   -          -      -      -    -    31   86  145   433
Dry-season paddy   -        3  143  181  156   153   34         -    -      -    -   -    670
Sugarcane            -      -   -    -    -        8   29    57   78    62   23   -          -
3    8   57   52    49   16         -    -      -    -   -    442
Palawija I           -      -   -    -    -       13    8       -    -      -    -   -       21
PalawijalI           -      -   -    -    -       -    10    40   46        8    -   -    104
/a  Net irrigation requirement based on basic data in Table 1 and cropping calendar in
Chart 16987; includes percolation losses, puddling requirement, and flooding after
transplanting, but excludes field and conveyance losses.



ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
HADIUN REHABILITATION
Water Balance Computation la
(140,000 ha)
Water Supply                                          Dry Season
Zones                         May       June      July   , Aug        Sept      Oct
-cu  /sec - ----                      - - --
Zone "I" (52,590 ha) lb
Irrigation requirement /c
Wet-season paddy          -         -         -         -        -         -
Dry-season paddy         8.59      8.81      1.90       -        -         -
Sugarcane                0.33      0.36     0.22      0.31      0.45      0.18
Palawija I                -        0.17     0.17       -         -         -
Palavija II               -         -        0.02     0.89      1.13       -
Total                8.92      9.34      2.31      1.20      1.58      0.44
Available water             11.00      8.80      6.90      5.90      5.10      5.70
Balance                      2.08    -0.54       4.59      4.70      3.52      5.26
Zone "II" (26.860 ha)
Irrigation requirement tb
Wet-season paddy          -         -         -         -         -       0.13
Dry-season paddy         1.33      1.33      0.29       -         -        -
Sugarcane                0.07      0.07     0.05      0.07      0.10      0.09
Palawija I                -        1.19     0.46       -         -         -
Palawija II               -         -        0.20     0.79      0.93      0.15
Total                 1.40     2.59      1.00      0.86      1.03      0.37
Available water              1.58      1.04      0.78      0.68      0.59      0.68
Balance                      0.18    -1.55    -0.22    -0.18    -0.44          0.31
Zone "III" (120,970 ha)
Irrigation requirement /b
Wet-season paddy          -         -         -         -         -       0.48
Dry-season paddy        14.53    14.35       3.33       -         -        -
Sugarcane                3.50      3.72      3.06     3.83      5.25      4.16
Palawija I                -        1.36      0.93       -        -         -
Palawija II               -         -        1.85     6.57      7.66      1.28
Total                18.03    19.37      9.17    10.39    12.91        5.92
Available water             30.05    19.08    13.81    10.69    10.00    12.55
Balance                     12.02    -0.29       4.64      0.30    -2.91       6.63
Zone "IV" (76.770 ha)
Irrigation requirement lb
Wet-season paddy          -         -         -         -         -       0.30
Dry-season paddy         2.94      2.90      0.67       -         -        -
Sugarcane                0.15      0.16      0.13     0.16      0.22      0.18
Palawija I                -        1.92      1.37       -        -         -
Palawija II               -         -        1.09      4.17     4.95      0.47
Total                 3.09     4.98      3.26      4.33      5.17      0.95
Available water              8.82      6.87      5.37      4.55      4.21      4.38
Balance                      5.73      1.89      2.11      0.22    -0.96       3.43
Zone "V" (12,210 ha)
Irrigation requirement /b
Wet-season paddy          -         -         -         -         -       0.06
Dry-season paddy         0.60      0.59      0.13       -         -         -
Sugarcane                0.03      0.03      0.02     0.03      0.04      0.03
Palawija I                -        0.36      0.22       -         -        -
Palawija II               -         -        0.05     0.18      0.20      0.02
Total                 0.63     0.98      0.42      0.21      0.24      0.11
Available water              0.77      0.46      0.33      0.25      0.21      0.22
Balance                      0.14    -0.52    -0.09        0.04    -0.03       0.11
/a  Presented only for dry season since run-of-river supplies are not critical in
the wet season.
/b See Table 2.



ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Groundwater Abstraction - 1975/76
Groundwater Use
Aquifer             Domestic      Irrigation       Industry      Total
---- Mcm/yr ------------------
Phreatic              36.5           2.0              0          35.2
Artesian                1.6         18.5              7.8        27.9
Total            38.1         20.5              7.8         66.4
------------------ cu m/sec -----------------
Phreatic                1.16         0.06             0            1.22
Artesian               0.05          0.59             0.25        0.89
Total             1.21         0.65             0.25         2.11



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Consulting Services
1.        Madiun Rehabilitation.  In addition to the services of ELC-NK under
Loan 1100-IND, the project would provide for an increased scope of services
by both the above and local consultants. ELC-NK would supply additional
staff to expedite the design of the first 25,000 ha of rehabilitation, which
are scheduled for execution in the 1977 dry season, carry out feasibility
studies for the proposed Bendo Dam as a multipurpose development, and provide
a construction supervision staff. Local consultants would be engaged to
prepare detailed design and construction drawings for 60,000 ha of tertiaries,
from which 30,000 ha would be selected for execution under the project. To
carry out the above assignment, about 125 man-months of expatriate assistance
and 625 man-months of local consultants' services would be required.
Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Project
2.        Consulting services for the preparation of the feasibility report
on the proposed groundwater pilot project were provided under Credit 289-IND.
The original consulting services agreement with ELC-NK, which was executed in
1972, covered a term of 35 months for the assessment of the groundwater
potential of 2,500 sq km in the Madiun and Solo River basins. By an addendum
to the contract in 1974, the term of consulting services was extended to 55
months, with a final report due in May 1977. A subsequent addendum in early
1976 further extended the term of the same contract to September 1977 to
allow the consultants to complete additional drilling. The due date of the
final report remained unchanged, but a supplemental report covering the
findings of the additional drilling is required in September 1977.
3.        Under the proposed project, the term of the consultants' contract
would be further extended and expanded to include preparation of detailed
designs and construction drawings for the three pilot schemes, supervision of
well drilling, installation of equipment, and civil works construction;
operational guidance during the first two years following implementation of
the plan; and feasibility study for large-scale groundwater development
(about 30,000). Approximately 225 man-months of consulting services would be
required to accomplish the above-mentioned work. Consultants would operate
as they have done thus far, working closely with a counterpart team for
purposes of training and knowledge transfer. As in the past, the counterpart
force would be drawn from P2AT, the agency under the DGWRD responsible for
groundwater resource investigations and development throughout Indonesia.
4.        Operational guidance to be provided by the consultants to P2AT
during the first two years following project completion would cover operation
and maintenance of mechanical and electrical equipment, distribution of water,



ANNEX 6
Page 2
determination of consumptive use, monitoring of groundwater reservoirs, and
integration of groundwater and surface water supplies.
5.        The consultant team would include a tearm leader, geohydrologist,
drilling supervisor, an irrigation engineer, mechanical engineer, topographer
and construction supervisor, who would be on continuous duty in the project
area over varying periods. Additional short-term assignments would be
utilized to provide periodic expertise as required in those fields, as well
as in topography, hydrology, agronomy, electrical systems, and economics.
Ciujung Drainage
6.        Consultants are being engaged under Loan 1268-IND to undertake
detailed design and preparation of tender documents for the Ciujung, as well
as the four other PROSIDA drainage areas. Additional services by expatriate
consultants will be provided under the project for assistance in the super-
vision of construction in the Ciujung area.
Audio-Visual Training Aids
7.        Existing consulting services with NEDECO for assistance in devel-
oping an audio-visual (AV) training program for operation and maintenance was
executed in mid-1976 and covers the period through June 1977.
8.        The extension of the contract for training in operation and main-
tenance would-require 50 man-months of consultant time. Expansion into the
construction supervision field would require an additional 50 man-months of
consultant effort, for a total obligation of 100 man-months. The contract
period would extend for about three years and would involve six consultants
over various periods of assignment.
Cirebon-Rentang Tertiary Systems
9.        The construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage systems on
180,000 ha in the Cirebon and Rentang subprojects was incorporated in Loan
1100-IND, with the expectation that detailed design and preparation of
construction drawings would be accomplished by PROSIDA staff. PROSIDA's
capability was considerably overestimated, however, and it is now apparent
that within the time frame for construction set forth under tht project,
PROSIDA could only produce designs for about 25,000 ha. Consequently, the
expansion of the PROSIDA staff or the utilization of local consultant forces
to undertake the work on the remaining 155,000 ha is essential to keep the
tertiary system construction program on schedule.
10.       Detailed design and preparation of construction drawings for
tertiary systems are highly personnel-intensive, requiring engineers,
engineering technicians and draftsmen, and supporting services personnel,
especially in the printing and reproduction areas. It is estimated that about
2,000 man-months of intensive effort would be involved in completing the
designs and drawings for 155,000 ha.  Engineers and engineering technicians
would account for about 1,100 man-months, engineering draftsmen about 600
man-months, and supporting services about 300 man-months. On top of this,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
the PROSIDA staff would have to maintain an orderly flow of design and
construction drawings to complete the main works in Rentang by March 1980 and
those in Cirebon by Mtarch 1981. Because of severe GOI personnel limitations,
however, expansion of the PROSIDA staff to undertake tertiary designs on the
remaining 155,00 ha would be extremely doubtful. The only viable alternative
is to engage local consultants.
11.       Because of the magnitude of the work involved, no single local
consulting firm would be capable of providing all the above services. There
are, however, a number of small to medium sized local firms that are familiar
with and have performed identical services for GOI, many of whom have already
been prequalified by PROSIDA and approved by the Bank under Loan 1268-IND.
These firms would have the combined capability to accomplish the work.
Records Depository and Retrieval System
12.       Establishment of this system will require a nominal amount of expat-
riate consultant assistance estimated to total eight man-months spread over a
period of one year. It is possible, although not certain, that a single
consultant could handle all of the assistance required in four distinct areas
of records management. The four types of assistance, which would occur at
progressive stages of implementation are as follows:
(a) identification and analysis of the records management problem and
recommendation of appropriate physical systems and equipment (two
man-months);
(b) supervision of equipment installation, and initial operation
and training of central office staff (two man-months);
(c) follow-up review of system operation, possible modification of
equipment, materials and staff management, and fine-tuning of
procedures (two man-months); and
(d) training of subproject personnel in application, utilization and
operation of system (two man-months).
Consultant assistance not specifically identified above would also include
selection of and arrangement for appropriate overseas training in records
management for two candidates from the PROSIDA staff.
13.       A summary of consulting services involved in the project is con-
tained in Table 1.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Estimated Consulting Requirements
Foreign /a        Local /b
----- (man-months) -----
Madiun Rehabilitation
Design engineer                                           24
Specifications - administration engineer                  12
Mechanical engineer                                         6
5 TDY engineers (Bendo Dam)                                9
Construction engineer                                     72
Tertiary design engineers                                  -              625
Subtotal                                  123              625
Madiun Groundwater Pilot Project
Permanent field staff                                    144
TDY specialists                                           81
Subtotal                                  225
Ciujung Drainage
Construction engineer                                     24
Audio Visual Training Aids Program
Extension - O&M training                                  50
Expansion - construction supervision                      50
training                                             100
Subtotal
Cirebon - Rentang Tertiary Systems
Tertiary Design Engineers                                 -             2,000
Records Depository and Retrieval System
Adviser                                                    8
Total                                  480            2,625
/a Includes expatriates permanently assigned to the site and specialists on
short visits.
/b Includes engineers, technicians and draftsmen.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 1
INDOUIESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Cost Estimate /a
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
--- (Rp million) ----  --- (US$ million)            (%) -
I. Madiun Rehabilitation (Stage I)
Civil works (75,000 ha)
Housing & inspection &
access roads                1,330      870   2,200   3.2       2.1      5.3      40
Headworks & weirs              1,700   2,075   3,775   4.1        5.0       9.1      55
Primary & secondary canals   3,860   3,860   7,720   9.3          9.3      18.6      50
Drainage works                   125      125      250   0.3      0.3       0.6      50
Telecommunications                40      210      250   0.1      0.5       0.6      80
Tertiary development
(30,000 ha)                 1,700     750   2,450   4.1       1.8       5.9      30
Subtotal             8,755   7,890  16,645  21.1    19.0         40.1      47
Consulting services /b             500      540   1,040   1.2                 2.5      50
Vehicles & equipment /c            -        580      580    -                 1.4    100
Administration & overhead        1,120      210   1,330   2.7       0.5       3.2      15
Land acquisition /d                 500     -        500   1.2       -        1.2      -
Base Cost            10,875   9,220  20,095  26.2    22.2         48.4      46
Physical contingencies           2,700   2,320   5,020   6.5        5.6      12.1      46
Expected price increases         3,650   3,115   6,765   8.8        7.5      16.3      46
Total             17,225  14,655  31,880  41.5    35.3         76.8      46
II. Ciujung Drainage
Civil works (5,700 ha)
Drainage structure               540      540   1,080   1.3       1.3       2.6      50
Primary & secondary drains       665      705   1,370   1.6       1.7       3.3     50
River earthwork                  -         40       40    -       0.1       0.1     50
Inspection & access roads        165      165      330   0.4      0.4       0.8     50
Bridges                           85       80      165   0.2      0.2       0.4     50
Subtotal             1,455   1,530   2,985   3.5        3.7       7.2      49
Consulting services /e             -         85       85    -       0.2       0.2      90
Vehicles & equipment /c            -         85       85    -       0.2       0.2    100
Administration & overhead           210      40      250   0.5      .1        0.6      15
Land acquisition                    580     -        580   1.4       -        1.4      -
Base Cost            2,245   1,740   3,985   5.4        4.2       9.6      44
Physical contingencies             540      455      995   1.3      1.1       2.4     44
Expected price increases            705     580   1,285   1.7       1.4       3.1     44
Total              3,490   2,775   6,265   8.4        6.7      15.1     44



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 2
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--  (Rp million) ----  --- (US$ million)             (x) -
III.  Madiun Groundwater Pilot Project
Civil works (2,800 ha)
Drilling & installing casing,
30 tubewells                     80     130      210   0.2       0.3       0.5      60
Pumphouse with discharge box,
33 pumphouses                    80       45     125   0.2       0.1       0.3      35
Irrigation & drainage canals
& structures                     40      -         40   0.1       -        0.1      45
Inspection & access roads          40       85      125   0.1      0.2       0.3      45
Subtotal                240      260      500   0.6      0.6       1.2      50
Consulting services /f              165      580      745   0.1       1.4       1.8      80
Training                            -        335      335    -        0.8       0.8    100
Vehicles, equipment &
materials /c                      -        915      915    -        2.2       2.2    100
Administration & overhead           165       45      210   0.4       0.1       0.5      15
Base Cost               570   2,135   2,705   1.4         5.1      6.5       79
Physical contingencies              125      500      625   0.3       1.2       1.5      79
Expected price increases            125      455      580   0.3       1.1       1.4      79
Total                 820   3,090   3,910   2.0        7.4       9.4      79
IV. Technical Assistance
Records depository & retrieval
system
Equipment /c                      -         85       85    -       0.2'      0.2    100
Consulting services &
training /g                    --         40       40    -       0.1  -   0.1       80
Audio-visual training services /h
Buildings                         455      250      705   1.1      0.6        1.7      35
Audio visual equipment            125      170      295   0.3       0.4       0.7      60
Consultants' services              80      250      330   0.2                 0.8      80
Mapping /i                          375   1,495   1,870   0.9         3.6       4.5      80
Consulting services, Cirebon-
Rentang tertiaries j1,160                  500   1,660   2.8       1.2        4.0      30
Base Cost             2,195   2,790   4,985   5.3         6.7     12.0       56
Physical contingencies              210      290      500   0.5       0.7       1.2      56
Expected price increases            625      830   1,455   1.5        2.0       3.5      56
Total               3,030   3,910   6,940   6.9        8.8      16.7      56
Grand Total           24,565  24,430  48,995  59.2    58.8    118.0           50
/a  Updated to end 1977 prices and based on exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.0.
/b  Provided for construction, supervision (foreign consultants) and tertiary design on
60,000 ha (local consultants) at billing rates of US$6,000-7,000/man-month for
expatriates, US$1,200-1,500/man-month for local engineers and US$450/man-month for
local draftsmen; does not include consulting services provided under Loan 1100-IND
(US$2.9 million foreign exchange or US$3.6 million total cost).
/c  See Annex 4, Table 5.
/d  Valued at Rp 150 - Rp 250/sq m.
/e  For construction supervision by expatriates at billing rates similar to those in
footnote /b.
/f  For detailed engineering and construction supervision by expatriates at billing rates
similar to those in footnote /b; also includes consultants' specialized equipment and
miscellaneous expenses.
/g Includes services of an adviser and overseas training of two technicians who will
operate the system.
/h  This is in addition to the consultants' services already provided under Loan 1100-IND.
/i  See Annex 4, Table 7.
X   For local engineers and draftsmen at billing rates similar to those in footnote /b, cost
also includes consultants' miscellaneous expenses.
/k  Includes embedded items, electrical wiring and cost of erecting mechanical and electrical
equipment.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual Inflation Rate, %
Civil works                      20       15      15      12      12       12
Equipment & services            7.5      7.5     7.5       7       7        7
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a                Total
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83  Increase
 ___________ ___________ (%) _____________________
Annual Inflation Rate
Civil works /c              4 /b   15      13      12       12      12
Equipment & services        2 /b  7.5       7       7        7       7
-U---------------- US$ Mlillion ----
I. Madiun Rehabilitation (Stage I)
Civil works               0.4    2.5      4.9     7.0        -        -    14.8
Equipment & services       -     0.3      0.5     0.7        -        -      1.5
Total          0.4    2.8      5.4      7.7       -         -    16.3
II. Ciujung Drainage
Civil works                -     0.6      1.2     0.9        -        -      2.7
Equipment & services       -     0.1      0.2     0.1        -        -      0.4
Total           -      0.7     1.4      1.0       -         -     3.1
III. Madiun Groundwater Pilot Project
Civil works                -     0.1      0.2     0.1        -        -      0.4
Equipment & services       -     0.2      0.3     0.3      0.1      0.1      1.0
Total           -      0.3     0.5      0.4     0.1       0.1     1.4
IV. Miscellaneous Services
Civil works                -     0.1      0.4     0.4        -        -      0.9
Equipment & services       -     0.1      0.7     0.9      0.9        -      2.6
Total            -     0.2     1.1      1.3     0.9         -     3.5
Grand Total   0.4      4.0     8.4    10.4      1.0       0.1    24.3
/a  April 1 - March 31.
/b  Base cost already updated to end 1977 prices.
/c  Projected from actual inflation rates experienced in a large number of civil
works contracts in Indonesia and based on the assumption that inflation
rates for local currency component equal inflation rates for indirect foriegn
exchange costs.



ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost             Loan
Total     Foreign      Amount
-------- US$ Million -------
I. Civil Works:
PROSIDA                                     49.0        23.3       35.5
P2AT                                         1.2         0.6        0.9
Physical contingencies                       4.3         2.1         -
Expected price increases                     6.2         3.0         -
Subtotal                         60.7        29.0       36.4 /a
II.  Vehicles & Equipment
PROSIDA                                      2.5         2.2        2.6
P2AT                                         2.2         2.2        2.4
Physical contingencies                        -           -          -
Expected price increases                     0.6         0.6         -
Subtotal                          5.3         5.0        5.0 /b
III.  Consulting Services
PROSIDA                                      7.6 /c      3.4        8.1
P2AT                                         1.8         1.4        1.9
Physical contingencies                        -           -          -
Expected price increases                     0.6         0.3         -
Subtotal                         10.0         5.1       10.0 /d
IV.  Overseas Training                              0.8           e        0.8 /e
V. Mapping:
PROSIDA                                      4.5         3.6        3.8
Physical contingencies                        -           -          -
Expected price increase                      0.3         0.2         -
Subtotal                          4.8         3.8        3.8 /f
VI. Unallocated:
Balance of physical contingencies           12.9         6.5        3.0
Balance of expected price increases         16.6         7.9        4.0
Land acquisition                             2.6          -          -
Administration & overhead                    4.3         0.7         -
Subtotal                         36.4        15.1        7.0
Total                           118.0        58.8       63.0
/a Disbursements will be 60% of total expenditures.
/b Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally manufactured
equipment, 65% of total expenditures for locally procured imported goods
and equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expenditures for
locally assembled vehicles.
/c Does not include consulting services that are already provided under
Loan 1100-IND.
/d Disbursements for training will be 100% of foreign expenditures; for
consulting services, 100% of total expenditures for both foreign and
local consultants.
/e Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures.
/f Disbursements will be 80% of total expenditures.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a           Total
Item                77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  Cost
----------------- US$ Million ----------------
I. Madiun Rehabilitation
(Stage I)                12.3   17.9   22.5   24.1        -      -    76.8
II.  Ciujung Drainage              1.8    4.8    5.6    2.9        -      -    15.1
III.  Groundwater Pilot Project   1.3    2.6    3.3    1.4    0.4   0.4          9.4
IV.  Technical Assistance          0.2    1.6    5.7    5.2    4.0        -    16.7
Total           15.6   26.9   37.1   33.6    4.4   0.4   118.0
/a April 1 - March 31.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year            Total
Item                   77/78  78/79  79/8,0  80/81  81/82  82/83  Cost
US$ Million ----------------
I. Madiun Rehabilitation
(Stage I)
Civil works                   8.0   10.0   11.2   10.9        -       -    40.1
Equipment & services          1.6    2.1    2.4    2.2        -       -     8.3
Base Cost          9.6   12.1   13.6   13.1        -       -    48.4
Physical contingencies        2.3    3.0    3.5    3.3        -       -    12.1
Expected price increases    0.4    2.8    5.4    7.7          -       -    16.3
Total             12.3   17.9   22.5   24.1        -       -    76.8
II. Ciujung Drainage
Civil works                   0.9    2.3    2.6    1.4        -       -     7.2
Equipment & services          0.3    0.8    0.9    0.4        -       -     2.4
Base Cost          1.2    3.1    3.5    1.8        -       -     9.6
Physical contingencies        0.6    1.0    0.7    0.1        -       -     2.4
Expected price increases       -      0.7    1.4    1.0       -       -     3.1
Total              1.8    4.8    5.6    2.9        -       -    15.1
III.  Groundwater Pilot Project
Civil works                   0.2    0.4    0.5    0.1        -       -     1.2
Equipment & services          0.8    1.4    1.8    0.7    0.3    0.3    5.3
Base Cost          1.0    1.8    2.3    0.8    0.3    0.3    6.5
Physical contingencies        0.3    0.5    0.5    0.2        -       -     1.5
Expected price increases       -      0.3    0.6    0.4    0.1    0.1    1.4
Total              1.2    2.5    3.3    1.4    0.4    0.4    9.4
Ill. Technical Assistance
Civil works system            0.1    0.4    0.7    0.5        -       -     1.7
Equipment & services          0.1    0.8    3..6    2.9    2.9        -    10.3
Base Cost          0.2    1.2    4.3    3.4    2.9         -    12.0
Physical contingencies         -      0.1    0.3    0.4    0.4        -     1.2
Expected price increases       -      0.2    1.1    1.3    0.9        -     3.5
Total              0.2    1.5    5.7    5.1    4.2         -    16.7
Grand Total       15.6   26.8   37.,1   33.5    4.6    0.4  118.0



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                                                 Accumulated
and Semester                                                  Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1978
Ist                                                            0.2
2nd                                                            1.6
1979
Ist                                                            5.7
2nd                                                           12.0
1980
1st                                                           20.0
2nd                                                           31.5
1981
1st                                                           41.5
2nd                                                           54.0
1982
Ist                                                           61.5
2nd                                                           62.0
1983
ist                                                           62.5
2nd                                                           63.0



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII[
Training
1.        The training components included under previous credits and loans,
particularly Loans 1100 and 1268-IND, are expected to increase the number of
irrigation O&M and construction personnel that would be qualified to fill up
vacancies resulting from the retirement of senior personnel and new positions
created to upgrade construction supervision an,d O&M services. The training
programs under Credit 514-IND and Loan 1100-IND are starting with the assis-
tance of consultants and advisers engaged by the implementing agencies, and
the training program under Loan 1268-IND is expected to start in early 1978.
Under the proposed project, the training program instituted under previous
credits and loans would be continued by: (a) expanding the audio visual
training program started under Loan 1100-IND; (b) assisting in training
personnel to operate a records depository and retrieval system and a text
processing and typing system at PROSIDA's central office in Jakarta; and
(c) training senior and middle level DGWRD personnel in planning, design
and O&M of groundwater and surface water irrigation systems and related
facilities.
Audio Visual Training
2.        The audio visual training aids being developed under Loan 1100-IND
consist of sets of slides synchronized with sound tapes. Each set or program
deals with a particular aspect of operation or maintenance of irrigation
systems. All audio-visual training aids would be produced at the Ministry of
Public Works Regional Training and Education Center in Surabaya with the
assistance of consultants (NEDECO), who have been engaged under Loan 1100-IND,
and whose tenure would be extended under the project.
3.        The audio-visual training sessions, which would run for 90 days,
would be held at the above Center. The trainees would include subsection
engineers and selected irrigation foremen from all parts of Indonesia. On
their return to their respective provinces, these middle level irrigation
personnel would in turn conduct training sessions at the provincial, district
and project levels, using equipment and audio visual training aids that
would be supplied to each province. The trainees in these sessions would
primarily be lower level irrigation personnel (ditch riders, gate keepers
and selected permanent laborers) and subsection engineers who were unable
to attend the training sessions at the Center.
Training on Use of Records Depository and Retrieval System
4.        The project would assist in training PROSIDA and DGWRD personnel in
microfilming drawings, reports, records and other technical documents, and in
indexing and storing the microfilms so that they could be readily retrieved



ANNEX 9
Page 2
for future use and reproduced, if required.  The project would include over-
seas in-service training for two technicians at the US Bureau of Reclamation
or some other institution where equipment of the type to be procured is being
extensively used.  In addition, a specialist to be engaged under the project
to advise PROSIDA on the appropriate type of equipment to procure and to
assist in its installation, would institute local in-service training after
the equipment is installed.
Groundwater Resources Development Training
5.        The project would assist in sending three senior level P2AT personnel
on a one-month study tour of neighboring countries in Asia, where groundwater
resource utilization has reached a more advanced stage of development and
management than the Madiun-Solo groundwater study area. In addition, the
project would assist in sending three middle level personnel on a three-month
in-service training course to Europe and four middle level personnel on a
similar training course to neighboring countries in Asia. Subjects to be
covered in the training courses would include geohydrology, hydrology, irriga-
tion engineering, agronomy, groundwater irrigation management, computer
analysis and mechanical engineering.
Design and O&M Training
6.        Under the project, about 20 DGWRD planning and design engineers
would undergo in-service training of 6 to 12 months each at selected con-
sultants' offices supplemented, wherever possible, with theoretical courses
offered in nearby universities. The project would also include study tours
of 2 to 3 months each for about 40 DGWRD senior, middle level and lower level
O&M personnel in neighboring countries in Asia.



ANNEX 10
Table I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
OPERATION AND MIAINTENANCE
Breakdown of Current and Proposed O&M Funds
Indonesian Fiscal Year
Item                                                         76/77        77/78
---- (Rp/ha) ----
Salaries, irrigation supervisors and below                      820          880
Annual desilting                                                500          550
Canal repairs, trimming and sodding                             155          190
Maintenance of headworks, structures, gates,
masonry linings, etc.                                     1,100        1,150
Transport                                                        50           60
Administration                                                   35           40
Housing and office                                               15           25
Workshops                                                       130          140
Inspection roads                                                120          140
Communications                                                   25           30
Hydrological stations                                            70           75
Maintenance of drainage works                                   180          220
Total /a                                     3,200        3,500
/a  From Central Government.  In addition, Provincial Government allocates
about Rp 900/ha to cover salaries of personnel above irrigation supervisor,
for a total of Rp 4,100/ha.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
FY77/78 Budgetary Allocation for Bank-Assisted Proiects L/
I     Rehabilitated Areas /b    11977/78 Rehabilitation Areas /cI  Future Rehabilitation Areas /d                           Total Area
Unit        Total     I           Unit        Total                 .     Lnit        Total                       Total         Unit
Sub_pr_ect                  Area    Budget         Budget   I Area    Budget         Budget    |   Area        Budget        Budget   |   Area           Budet            et
I (ha)    (Rp/ha)  (Rp Million)l  (ha)    (Rplha)  (Rp Million) I   (ha)            (Rp/ha)  (Rp Million)|   (ha)          (Rp Million)  (Rp/ha)
Credit l27-IND             I
Rentang                 I 90,216   3,500           315.8  I        -       _              _   I       _            _              _  I    90,216          315.8      3,500
Cisedane                I 40,663   3,500           142.3  I        -        -             _   I        -           _              _  j    40,663          142.3      3,500
Glapan-Sedadi            I 46,010   3,500          161.0  I        _        _             _   I        _           _              _  I    46,010          161.0      3.500
Way Seputih               I 11,500   3,500          40.3           -        -             _      13.500 /n   1.000             13.5  |    25.000           53.8      2,152
Total                1188,389   3,500           659.4          -        _              _       13,500      1,000           13.5  I   201,889          672.9       3,333
Credit 220-IND             I
Ciujung                  I 24,300   3,500           85.1  I        _          _           _           - _          _              _        24,300          85.1      3.500
Pesali-Comal             1123.283   3,500          431.5  I        -        --                                                    -I 123,283              431.5      3,500
Sadang                   1 47.330   3,500          165.7   |  3,000   1,300             3.9           -            -              -        50.330         169.6      3,370
rotal                 194,913   3,500          682.3  J  3,000    1.300              3.9                                          J _  _  _  197.913  686.2       3,467
Credit 289-IND            I
Pekalen-Sanpean          148,550   3,500           519.9   1 50,000    1,300           65.0    I 30,560        1,600          48.9   1   229,110          633.8      2,766
Loan 1100-IND              I
Cirebon                  I 12,000   3,500           42.0  I 20,000   1,300             26.0    I 56,515        1,600          90.4  I    88,515           158.4      1,790
Sanpean Bare                      -    -       - _I              - _  _                           8,000 /f         -              _         8.000
Total                I 12,000   3,500            42.0  I 20,000    1,300            26.0    | 64,515       1,401           90.4  I    96,515          158.4       1.641
Loan 1268-IND             I
North Sadang                    -        -             -  I  2,000   1,300              2.6 |    4,000 /f          -              -  I      6,000           2.6        433
Irrigation VIII
Madiun (Stage 1)        I      --                                                                75,000        1.600         120.0I    75.000             120.0      1,600
Subtotal (PROSIDA) 1543,852   3,500          1,903.6   I 75,000    1,300           97.5    187,575         1,454          272.8       8 806,427     2,273.9       2,820
Credits 195 S 514-IND    I
Jatiluhur               1230,000   4,200           966.0  I 15,000   1,300             19.5   I 43,000 /g   1,000             43.0  I   288,000        1,028.5       3,571
Irrigation IX
Sedeku _b h                9,000   3,500            31.5           -        -                    8000          1,600          12.8         17,000          44.3      2606
Grand Total          1782,852   3,706        2,901.1   1 90,000   1,300           117.0   1238,575         1,377          328.6    i 1,111,427      3,346.7      3,001
/a  From Central Government (established jointly by GOI and the Bank).
/b Would require full O&M funds.
Ic Would require operating funds until they are shut down for rehabilitation.
/d Would require funds for operation and urgent repairs to keep systems functioning until they are rehabilitated.
/e System rehabilitated but service area not yet cleared; minimal naintenance funds required.
/f No water supply until main canal is completed.
L&  Primarily nontechnical systems requiring significant new system construction (minimal maintenance funds).
/h  FPr O&i  purposes, 10,926 ha of this system, which were rehabilitated under the Glapan-Sedadi subproject (Credit 127-IND), would continue to be funded
mader that subproject.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Rice Price Structure, 1977 and 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant end-1977 prices)
Madiun Area                                 Ciujung Area
1977                 1985                1977                 1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton   Rp/ton    US$/ton    Rp/ton   US$/ton   Rp/ton   US$/ton
Rice
Export price Thai 5%-42% broken /a
mix f.o.b. Bangkok                      114,400       220    150,800    290        114,400       220   150,800       290
Ocean freight and insurance                  10,400       20      10,400      20       10,400        20    10,400        20
Port handling, storage and transport
to wholesaler                             3,300         6       3,300      6         3,700         7      3,700        7
Transport, handling mill to wholesaler    -4,100          -8      -4,100      -8       -3,300        -6    -2,500        -5
Rice price ex-mill project area,            124,000      238    160,400    308        125,200       241   162,400       312
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)        78,100      150    101,100    194         79,000       152   102,300       197
Milling cost less value of by-products    -  700          -1      -  700      -1       -  700        -1    -  700        -1
Drying and cleaning                          -1,500       -3      -1,500      -3       -1,500        -3    -1,500        -3
Handling and transport farm to mill
(BUUD/KUD)                               -1,200        -2     -1,200      -2        -2,100        -4    -1,200       -2
Farmgate paddy price /b                      74,700      144      97,700    188        74,700       144    98,900       190
(Financial farmgate price) /c              (65,000) /d (157)   (78,000)  (188) /e  (61,000) /f (147)  (78,000)   (188)
/a  Assumed rice quality:  10% of production, 5% brokens; 60% medium grade, 25-35% brokens; 30% lower grade, 42%
brokens.  Assumed prices in 1985 (in constant end-1977 prices); 5% brokens, US$405/ton; 25-35% brokens,
US$282/ton; 42% brokens, US$263/ton.
/b At a shadow-priced exchange rate of Rp 520 = US$1.00.
/c At the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00.
/d  Present financial price calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for 14% moisture content paddy Rp 70/kg
less Rp 1.5/kg drying and cleaning, Rp 1.2/kg transport farm to BUUD/KUD, Rp 2.3/kg for market imperfections.    H
/e  In the future, distortions are assumed eliminated between internal and world market prices.                                 z
/f  Present financial price calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for 14% moisture content paddy Rp 70/kg    
less Rp 1.5/kg drying and cleaning, Rp 2.1/kg transport farm to BUUD/KUD, Rp 5.4 for market imperfections.                J-



ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Sugar and Soybean Price Structure 1977 and 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant end-1977 prices)
1977                 1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton    Rp/ton   US$/ton
Sugar
Export price f.o.b., Caribbean                   143,500    276        192,400    370
Ocean freight and insurance                       19,200      37        19,200      37
Port handling Surabaya/Jakarta                     3,000       6         3,000       6
Sugar price on trucks Surabaya/Jakarta           165,700    319        214,600    413
Transport Madiun to Surabaya/Jakarta              -7,500    -14        - 7,500    -14
Cane processing                                  -20,000    -38        -20,000    -38
Cane transport farm to mill                      - 7,000    -13        - 7,000    -13
Farmgate price of sugar cane at 10%
sugar cane /a                                   13,100      25        18,000     35
Financial farmgate value factory cane /b         (11,000)   (27)       (14,500)   (35) /c
Soybean
Export price f.o.b. US gulfport                  119,600    230        173,700    334
Ocean/freight and insurance                       19,800      38        19,800      38
Port handling Surabaya                             2,500       5         2,500       5
Soybean price on trucks Surabaya                 141,900    273        196,000    377
Transport Madiun to Surabaya                      -3,700      -7        -3,700      -7
Transport farm to Madiun                          -3,000      -6        -3,000      -6
Farmgate price soybean /a                        135,200    260        189,300    364
Financial farmgate price /b                     (130,000)  (313)    (151,100)  (364) /c
/a  At a shadow-priced exchange rate of Rp 520 = US$1.00.
/b  At the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00.
/c  In the future, distortions are assumed eliminated between internal and world
market prices.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Fertilizer Price Structure, 1977 and 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant end-1977 prices)
Urea                             Triple superphosphate                         Muriate of potash
1977                 1985                  1977                  1985
Rp/ton  US$/ton      Rp/ton  US$/ton       Rp/ton  US$/ton       Rp/ton  US$/ton       Rp/ton  US$/ton       Rp/ton  US$/ton
World export price /a                               89,400      172     100,400     193        71,200     137       89,400      172       35,900       69       36,400       70
Ocean freigtht and insurance                        11,400       22       4,200        8       11,400      22        11,400      22       11,400       22       11,400       22
Handling and distribution costs to retail
level                                             19,100      37       19,100      37       19,100       37       19,100       37       19,100       37       19,100       37
Transport BUUD kiosk to farm                          1,000       2    ____ _2                  1,000       2         1,000       2         1,000       2         1,000       2
Fertilizer farmgate price /b                       120,900      233     124,700     240       102,700     198      120,900      233       64,700      130       67,900      131
(Financial farmgate price) /c /d                   (71,000)  (171)    (99,600)   (240)       (71,000)   (171)      (96,700)   (233)      (71,000)  (171)       (54,400)  (131)
/a  Urea export price 1977 f.o.b. Tokyo; 1985 f.o.b. Palembang.
/b  At a shadow-priced exchange rate of Rp 520 = US$1.00.
/c  Present financial price is calcullated as follows:  fixed retail praice at BUUD/<UD of Rp 70/kg plus Rp !/kg BUUD/Kln D to farm transport cost.  Ic. the
future, distortions are assumed eliminated between internal and world market prices.
/d  At the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00.
X P
H



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Annex 2 contains the existing and proposed cropping patterns.  This
annex shows separately for the Mladiun rehabilitation, pilot groundwater and
Ciujung areas:
(a) production costs for irrigated and rainfed crops at present, and in
the future "with" the project (Tables 1, 2). Present costs and
input use are based on interviews with farmers and government
officials in the areas during appraisal. Without the project,
little change is expected in the future level of inputs. Future
input levels for "with project" conditions are based on the BDMAS
program recommendations for each area. Table 3 shows the assumed
input quantities used in the present and future situations;
(b)  monthly labor requirements per ha based on present and proposed
cropping calendars for the wet and dry seasons (Table 4). With or
without the project, the labor requirements for land preparation
and planting would not change in 21adiun. With the project, as
replanting after flooding would be greatly reduced, labor used for
planting would fall in Ciujung. Labor requirements would increase
in all areas for crop management, including such activities as
weeding, fertilizer and pesticide application, and irrigation;
(c) crop budgets for the present and the future "with" and "without"
the project (Table 5);
(d) farms budgets for typical family farms of 0.2, 0.5 and 1.3 ha in
the Madiun area, and 0.3 and 0.8 ha in the Ciujung area (Table 6).
The budgets are calculated according to cash flows. Labor costs
include only hired and harvest labor, not farm family labor, and
were determined for nonharvest periods by calculating the excess of
total monthly labor requirements over an estimated 40 man-days of
family labor per farm per month. Hired farm labor is costed at
Rp 230/day in MIadiun and Rp 200/day in Ciujung. In Mladiun, future
cropping patterns and intensities would remain as now. For the
analysis, soybeans represent the considerable area of secondary or
palawija crops (in order of importance; soybeans, corn, cassava,
sweet potatoes and peanuts). Sugarcane is excluded from the farm
budgets as the project is unlikely to increase sugarcane production,
and the future is uncertain because of the Government's policy of
switching cane production from the sugar factories to farmers.  Farms,
which are leased once every three years to the sugar factories for a
single cane crop, produce an average annual crop income some 20%
less than the crop incomes calculated in Table 6. This includes



ANNEX 12
Page 2
the rental payment by the factory, and involves some 33% of the
project area. No adjustments were made in the representative farm
budgets to account for this lower income, although it was taken into
consideration in the economic analysis (Annex 14). The cropping
intensity on the 1.3 ha farm is less than on the two smaller farms.
In Ciujung, the cropping intensity would increase with the project
from 115% to 140%. Average annual land taxes at present and with the
project, respectively, are Rp 7,000 and Rp 12,000/ha in Madiun, and
Rp 4,000 and Rp 9,000/ha in Ciujung. In l4adiun, farmers would also
contribute Rp 3,900/ha for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary units,
and in Ciujung, Rp 1,500/ha. Sharecropping is extensive in both
areas. Except for the landlord paying the land tax and the share-
cropper and his family contributing t'heir labor, the landlord and
sharecropper divide equally gross production less harvesting and
other production costs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop Production Costs: Present (1977) /a
Madiun Rehabilitation and Pilot Groundwater Areas /b                                          Ciujung Area
Rice                                 Soybean /c                         Sugarcane    _                     Rice
Wet season            Dry season                 Dry season                Wet and dry seasons irrig.        Wet season   Dry season
Rainfed     Irrigated       Irrigated        Irrigated I   Irrigated II          Farmer cane   Factory cane        Irrigated      Irrigated
Cash inputs (Rp '000/ha) /d
Cultivation                  17.9 (17.9) 17.9 (17.9)  12.5 (12.5)                0   (0)      0   (0)             0     (0)      0      (0)     13.6 (13.6)    9.5  (9.5)
Seed                          3.0  (2.6)  3.6  (3.3)   3.6  (3.2)             4.1 (3.9)   4.1 (3.9)           20.0  (20.0)  40.0  (40.0)         5.3  (4.6)    4.1  (3.5)
Fertilizer                    6.9  (4.3) 25.7 (15.6   18.6 (11.4)              2.1 (1.4)    1.5 (1.1)         32.5  (27.0)  65.1  (54.7)        11.7  (7.1)    3.5  (2.1)
Agrochemicals                   0    (0)  4.9  (1.2)   5.7  (1.4)              1.9 (0.5)    1.9 (0.5)         11.4  (11.4)   19.0  (19.0)        3.8  (0.9)    2.9  (0.8)
Harvesting                    4.1  (3.5)  7.2  (6.2)    6.3  (5.5)               0   (0)      0   (0)             0      (0)      0      (0)      5.0  (4.0)    5.9  (4.8)
Other                         1.1  (1.1)  1.7  (1.7)    1.3  (1.3)             1.9 (1.9)    1.5 (1.5)         40.1  (40.1)  40.9 (220.4)          2.6  (2.6)    2.1  (2.1)
Interest                        0  (2.6)   (09) (4.1)       0  (2.7)             0 (0.3)      0 (0.3)            0  (46.5)       0      (0)         0  (3.2)     (0) (2.2)
Total cash inputs       33.0 (32.0) 61.0 (50.0)  48.0 (38.0)            10.0 (8.0)   9.0 (7.3)          104.0 (145.0) 165.0 (375.0)        42.0 (36.0)  28.0 (25.0)
Labor inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation                   36           36             29                20            22                   85              170              55              40
Planting                           40           40             40                35            35                   40               75              55              40
Crop management                    54           64             66                25            21                  440              555              60              55
Harvesting                         40           50             45                35            32                   70              100              50              45
Total labor inputs          170           190           180                115          110                   635              900             220             180
/a  Economic prices for use in the economic analysis, and based on world market prices for rice, soybeans and fertilizers.   Figures in parentheses are
financial prices.
/b  Separate irrigated rice and soybean crop production costs were calculated for the pilot groundwater areas, and produced identical or practically
identical costs to the Madiun rehabilitation area.  Thus one set of crop production costs are sufficient for these areas.   Soybean production costs
at Balong and Caruban correspond to Soybean I; and at Tanon to Soybean II.
/c  Soybean I = early crop planted after wet-season rice;  Soybean II = late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane.
/d  See Table 3 for physical input assumptions.                                                                                                                                     |



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop Productioni Costs: Future Without Project /a
_______                Madiun Rehabilitation and Pilot Groundwater Areas lb                                         -    Ciujung Area
Rice                               Soybean /c                              Sugarcane                             Rice
Wet season              Dry season               Dry season              Wet- and dry-season irrigated         Wet season    Dry season
Rainfed      Irrigated       Irrigated      Irrigated I   Irrigated II   Farmer cane             Factory cane        Irrigated       Irrigated
Casii Inputs (Rp '000/ha) L4
Cultivation                      17.9  (17.9)  17.9  (17.9)   12.5  (12.5)          0      (0)      0    (0)        0        (0)        0       (0)  13.6  (13.6)    9.5   (9-5)
Seed                              3.9   (3.1)    4.3   (3.5)    4.3    (3.5)   5.7    (4.5)   5.7  (4.5)   25.0    (25.0)           50.0    (50.0)    6.9    (5.5)    4.9   (3.9)
Fertilizer                        7.4   (5.9)  27.3  (21.9)   19.8  (15.9)    2.4   (1-9)    1.8  (1.4)   67.0    (53.9)             72.0    (57.9)   12.4   (9.9)    3.7    (3.0)
Agrochemicals                       0      (0)   4.9   (1.2)    5.7   (1.4)    1.9   (0.5)    1.9  (0.5)    15.2    (15.2)           19.0   (19.0)    3.8   (0.9)    2.9   (0.8)
Harvesting                        5.6   (4.4)    8.8   (7.0)    7.4   (5.9)         0      (0)      0    (0)        0        (0)        0       (0)   6.5    (5.1)    7.6   (6.1)
Other                             i.2   (1.2)    1.8   (1.8)    1.3   (1.3)   2.0   (2.0)    1.6  (1.6)   44.8    (44.8)             45.0  (220.1)    2.8   (2.8)    2.4   (2.4)
Interest                         -  0   (2.5)       0   L3.7)              - (3_S)  0   (1.1)       0  (10)         0   (41.1)          0       (0)      0   j3_2)       0   (2.3)
Total Cash Inputs             36.0  (35.0)  65.0  (57.0)  51.0  (44.0)  12.0  (10.0)   11.0  (9.0)  152.0  (180.0)    186.0  (392.0)  46.0  (41.0)  31.0  (28.0)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                      36              36              29              20              22              85                170                55              40
Planting                              40             40              40              35              35               40                 75                55              40
Crop management                       54             64               66              25              21             505                555                60              55
Harvesting                           40             -5               45              35               32              90                110                50              45
Total Labor Inputs               170             190             180             115             110             720                 910              220             180
/a  See footnote /a, Table 1.
/b  See footnote /b, Table 1.
/c  See footnote Ic, TabLe 1.                                                                                                                                                        X
/d  See footnote /d, Table 1.
s( 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop Production Costs: Future with Project at Full Development (1986) /a
Madiun Rehabilitation and Pilot Groundwater Areas                                              Ciuiung Area
Rice /b                              Soybean /c                                   Sugarcane                            Rice
Wet season   Dry season                         Dry season                         Wet and dry seasons irrig.         Wet season   Dry season
Irrigated     Irrigated      Irrigated I   Irrigated II    Irrigated III           Farmer cane   Factory cane         Irrigated      Irrigated
Cash inputs (Rp '000/ha) /d
Cultivation                   17.9 (17.9)  12.5 (12.5)          0    (0)        0    (0)      11.2 (11.2)           0       (0)      0      (0)     13.6 (13.6)    9.5  (9.5)
Seed                           3.5  (2.8)    3.5  (2.8)      6.4  (5.1)      6.4  (5.1)        6.4  (5.1)        25.0  (25.0)  50.0  (50.0)          3.7  (2.9)    3.5  (2.8)
Fertilizer                   32.9 (26.3)  26.1 (20.9)        3.6  (2.9)      2.7  (2.2)        6.1  (4.9)        67.0  (53.9)   72.0  (57.9)        26.6 (21.3)  27.3 (21.9)
Agrochemicals                  7.9  (2.0)   8.6  (2.2)        7.6  (1.8)      7.6  (1.8)       7.6  (1.8)        15.2  (15.2)   19.0  (19.0)         7.9  (2.0)    7.9  (2.0)
Harvesting                    12.3  (9.8)  11.2  (8.9)          0    (0)        0    (0)         0    (0)            0      (0)      0      (0)     10.7  (8.4)   11.3  (8.9)
Other                          3.5  (3.5)   3.1  (3.1)        2.4  (2.4)      2.3  (2.3)       2.7  (2.7)        44.8  (44.8)  45.0 (220.1)          2.5  (2.5)    2.5  (2.5)
Interest                         0  (3.7)       0  (2.6)        0  (0.8)        0  (0.6)         0  (1.3)           0  (41.1)        0      (0)        0  (3.2)       0  (3.3)
Total cash inputs       78.0 (66.0)  65.0 (53.0)    20.0 (13.0)    19.0 (12.0)          34.0 (27.0)       152.0 (180.0) 186.0 (392.0)         65.0 (54.0)  62.0 (51.0)
Labor inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation                   40            34              20               22              60                    85             170               55             40
Planting                           40            40              35               35              30                    40             75                40             40
Crop management                    90            96              44               38              45                   505            555                80             85
Harvesting                         60            50              36               35              40                    90            110                50             55
Total labor inputs          230           220             135               130             175                  720             910              230            220
/a  See footnote /a, Table 1.
/b  Irrigated rice production costs are identical at Madiun rehabilitation and the groundwater development areas.                                                                   X
/c  Soybean I   early crop planted after wet season rice;   Soybean II = late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane; Soybean III = early and late crop    ax
planted in pilot groundwater development areas.                                                                                                                                t
/d See footnote /d, Table 1.



INDONEISIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
Madiun Rehabilitation and Pilot Groundwater Areas                                    Ciuiumi Area
Rice                               Sovbean                            Sug-rce                         Rice
Inputs/ha                                    Wet season      Dry season                  Dry season                 Wet and dry s*eons irri.  Wet .aaom     Dr.  s neaso
Rainfed  Irrigated Irrigated    Irri. I /a Irri. II /a Irri. III /T  Farmer cane  Factory cane  Irrigated   Irrigated
Present (1977)
Cultivation       - (animal-day) /b        22.4       22.4       15.7           -            -                             -              _             17           12
Seed              - (kg)                   40         40         40            30           30                           L.S./         L.S.             70           45
Fertilizer /c    - (kg) Urea               40        170        120             -            -                           200            120            8s            25
TSP              20         50         40            20           15                            80           100              20            5
KCl               -          -          -             -            -                             -           200               -            -
(NH4)2504         -          -          -             -            -                           100           350               -            -
Agrochemicals    - (1) Diazinon             -          1.3        1.5            0.5          0.5                          3              5              1            0.75
(gm) Zinc phosphide   -           -          -             -            -                             -              -              -            -
Harvesting costs - (X of crop yield/ha)  3             3          3              -           -                             -              -              3             3
Interest /d       - (%/month)               1.5        1.5        1.5           2            2                             1.5            -              1.5          1.5
Future without project
Cultivation       - (animal-day)           22.4       22.4       15.7           -             -                            -              -             17            12
Seed              - (kg)                   40         40         40            30           30                           L.S.          L.S.             70           45
Fertilizer        - (kg) Urea              40        170        120             -             -                          200            120             so            25
TSP              20         50         40            20           15                            sO            100             20            5
KCl               -          -          -             -            -                             -           200               -            -
(NH4)2SO4         -          -          -             -            -                           100           350               -            -
Agrochemicals    - (1) Diazinon             -           1.3       1.5            0.5          0.5                           3             5               1            0.75
(gm) Zinc phosphide   -           -              -            -                                       -              -              -             -
Harvesting costs - (1 of crop yield/ha)  3             3              3            -             -                         -              -               3            3
Interest          - (/month)                1.5        1.5            1.5          2             2                          1. 5          -               1.5          1.5
Future with project (1986)
Cultivation       - (animal-day)                      22.4       15.7            -            -            14               -             -              17           12
Seed              - (kg)                              30         30             30           30            30            L.S.           L.S.             32           30
Fertilizer        - (kg) Urea                        200        160              -            -             -             90            130            170           175
TSP                         65         50            30           22             50            150            150             4            45
KC1                          -          -             -             -             -            200            200              -             -
(NH4)2S04                    -          -             -            -              -            300           300               -            -
Agrochemicals    - (1) Diazinon                         2          2.2           2            2             2               4             5               2.0          2.0
(gI) Zinc phosphide             100        100              -            -             -               -             -             I10          100
Harvesting costs - (1 of crop yield/ha)                 3          3             -            -             -                             -               3            3
Interest          - (1/month)                          1          1              1.5          1.5           1.5             1.25                           1          1
/a  Soybean I - early crop planted after wet season rice; Soybean II - late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane; Soybean III - early sad lato crop ao_
on groundwater development areas.
/b  Hiring cost is Rp 800/aniwAl-day for buffalo pair and driver.
/c  TSP - Triple muperphosphate; KCL - Potassium chloride; (WHO)2S04 - Amonium sulphate.
Ld  Rice - interest is chargad on 90: (cash inputs - harvesting posts) for seven months.
Soybeans - interest is charged on 90X of caea  inputs for thi*e months.                                                                                                    *i
Sugarcane - interest is charged on 90X (cash inpute  + hiredilabor costs) for 12 months.
/e  L.S.   lump sun.



ANNEX 12
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Monthly Labor Requirements for Crops (man-days/ha)
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
Madiun area
Wet season - Irrigated
Rice                   -P/a        37     35    10      25     21     10                          -      20      32     190
W        37    35      10    25      21     10    -       -      -      -       20    32     190
W        40    38    37       36     27    -       -      -      -      -       20    32      230
Dry season - Irrigated                                                                                            -,
Rice                   - P         -      -      -      15    39    55       15    16    40       -      -      -       180
W        -      -      -      15    39    55       15    16    40       -      -      -       180
w        -      -      10    44    56       25     30    55      -      -      -      -       220
Soybean I /b           - P         -      -      -      10    25      20     15    23      22     -      -      -      115
W        -      -      -      10    25    20       15    23    22       -      -      -       115
W        -      -      10    25      25    20      25    30    -        -      -      -       135
Soybean II /b          - P         -      -      -      -      -      10    15    20       20    20      25     -       110
w        -      -      -      -      -      10    15    20       20    20       25     -      110
w        -      -      -      -      -      10    25      25    15    25       30     -       130
Farmer sugarcane       - P         10    10    23       73   135    138    106      64     33     23     10      10    635
W        14    14    31       75   148    149    118      72    45    26        14    14    720
W        14    14    31    75   148   149    118          72    45      26      14     14     720
Factory sugarcane    - P           14    14    33   104    192    196    150        90    47      33     14    13      900
W        14    14      33   104    192   201    155       90    47      33      14    13      910
W        14     14    33   104   192   201    155         90    47      33      14     13    910
Ciujung area
Wet season - Irrigated
Rice                   - P         35    40      15    20      20    25    -        -      -      -      25     40      220
W        35     40    15    20       20     25     -      -      -      -       25    40      220
W        35     15    25    35    40        15    -       -      -      -       25    40      230
Dry season - Irrigated
Rice                   - P         -      -      -       7    22    45       30    27    39       10                    180
w        -      -      -       7    22    45       30    27      39      10                   180
w        -      -      -      12    26      36     35    45    51       15                    220
/a  P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
/b  Soybean I  = early crop planted after wet-season rice.
Soybean II = late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Crop Budgets /a
Madiun Rehabilitation Area                           Ciujung Area
Rice                       Soybean                           Rice
Wet season  Dry season             Dry season                Wet season  Dry season
Irrigated   Irrigated    Irrig. I /b  Irrig. II /b           Irrigated   Irrigated
Present (19i7)
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   3.2           2.8            0.6            0.44              2.2          2.6
Farmgate price (Rp '000/ton)                                    65           65             130           130                 61           61
Gross value of production (Rp'OO0/ha)                          208          182              78            57                134          159
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)                   50           38               8              7                36           25
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)           158          144              70             50                98          134
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                               190          180             115            110              220           180
Future without prolect
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   3.0           2.5            0.55           0.4               2.2          2.6
Farmgate price (Rp '000/ton)                                    78           78             151           151                 75           75
Gross value of production (Rp'000/ha)                          234          195              83             60               165          195
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)                   57           44              10              9                41           28
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp'O00/ha)           177          151              73             51               124          167
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                               190          180             115            110              220           180
Future with project (1986)
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   4.2           3.8            0.8            0.63              3.6          3.8
Faragate price (Rp '000/ton)                                    78           78             151            151                78           78
Gross value of production (Rp'000/ha)                          328          296             121             95              281           296
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)                   66           53              13             12                54           51
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp'O00/ha)           262          243             108            83               227           245
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                               230          220             135           130               230           220
Incremental net value of production, excluding
labor (future with project - future without
project, Rp '000/ha)                                          85           92              35            32               103            78
/a  Financial prices and costs are used, based on Tables 1-3, and Annex 12, Tables 1-3.                                                                   ct (
/b  Soybean I  - early crop planted after wet-season rice.
Soybean II = late crop planted after Soybean I or sugarcane.



ANNEX 12
Table 7
IIIGATI0 VIII
Farm Budmets
Madiun Reoabilitation Are.                                                ciuJuna Area
0.2 ha fara              0.5 ha fare              1.3 ha farm                 0.3 ha farm              0.8 ha farm
Unit   Preset  Future with   Prsuent  Future with   Present  Future with             Present  Future with   Present  Future with
Project                  Project                  Project                     Project                   Project
Cropped area
Wet seaon  - Rice                   (ha)       0.20       0.20          0.50       0.50           1.30       1.30            0.30       0.30           0.80       0.80
Dry season  - Rice                  (ha)       0.05       0.05          0.12       0.12          0.31       0.31             0.05       0.12           0.12       0.32
- Soybean I            (ha)       0.10      0.10           0.26       0.26          0.40       0.40              -          -             -           -
- Soybean II           (ha)      0.08       0.08           0.20       0.20          0.33       0.33              -          -              -          -
Total cropped area                  (ha)       0.43       0.43          1.08       1.08          2.34       2.34             0.35       0.42           0.92       1.12
Cropping intensity                    (2)      215        215           215        215           180         180             115        140            115        140
Crop production - Paddy               (kg)    780       1.030         1,940      2,560         5,030      6,640              790      1,540         2.070      4.100
- Soybean           (kg)    100         130           240        330            390        530                 .          -             -          -
Gross value of production /a        (Rp000)   64          100           158        250           377         598              48        120            126        320
Production costs, excluding
labor /a                          (Rp'0Q0)   13         18             33         45            82        111               12         22            32         60
Hired labor cost - Harvest /b    (Ip'000)    6             10            15         24             39        62                6         14             15         38
- Other /c       (4p-OOO)      -          -              _          _            4          5
Net vslue of production             (Rp'000)   45          72           110        181           252         420              30         84             79        222
Land tax (IPEDA) /d                 (Rp'000)    1           2             4          6              9         16                1         3              3          7
Farm irrigation system OSM
costa /e                          (Rp'OOQ)      -         I              _         2              _         5                 _          _              _         1
Payments to landlord /f             (Rp'000)   22          34            51         84            117        192              14         39             37        104
Net crop income - Owner-operator (lp'000)   44             69           106        173            243        399              29         81             76        214
- Sharecropper   (Rp'000)   23           36            55         89            126        207               15         42            39        110
Other inco-e /e                     (Rp'000)   60          60            40         35             25         20              55         55             45         40
Net far. incoe  - Owner-operator (Rp'000)  104            129           146        208           268         419              84        135            121        254
- Sharecropper   (Rp'000)   83           96            95        124            151        227               70        96             84        150
Total labor requirements           (man-days)  67          81           169        203            385        464              75         95            198 2554
/a Naed on Table 5
/b Calculated at 12% of gross production.
/c Based on a maximum 40 ean-day./sonth of fanily labor.
/d  Average annual land tax rates/ha are now and with the project:  Madi=n, Rp 7,000 and Rp 12,000; Ciujuog, Rp 4,000 and Rp 9,000.
/e For tertiary and quaternary units, annual 06l is estimated at Rp 3.900/ha at Hadiuu, and Rp 1,500/ha at Ciujung.
/Lf Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production lesa harvesting and other production comat, except for the land tax which the landlord pays.
/R Based on interviews and Bank surveys.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Comprehensive and reliable statistics on population and labor
force in Madiun and Ciujung areas do not exist. Using data from local
government officials, the rural population is estimated at 1.1 million
in the MIadiun project area. This consists of about 150,000 farm families
and 42,000 landless laborers' families. In Ciujung, the rural population
is estimated at 100,000, consisting of 11,500 farm families and 5,000
landless laborers' families. Assuming each family supplies two full time
workers, the total number of farm workers is 384,000 in Madiun, and 33,000
in Ciujung. If each worker is available to work 240 days per year, or
20 days a month, the total annual labor supply is 92.2 million man-days
in Madiun, and 7.9 million man-days in Ciujung.
2.        The rural labor force is growing at 1.8% per year.  Assuming
that the rural work force continues to grow at this rate at full project
development rural labor would total 459,000 in Madiun, and 39,000 in Ciujung.
In Madiun this is equivalent to a labor supply of 110.2 million man-days a
year, or 9.2 million man-days a month, and in Ciujung 9.4 million man-days
a year, or 0.78 million man-days a month.
Labor Utilization
3.        Table 4 gives estimates of average monthly and annual
labor requirements per ha for the various crops. As Madiun farmers already
intensively and expertly prepare the land and plant their crops, with or
without the project labor requirements would not increase for these tasks.
Without the project, labor requirements for crop management (weeding,
fertilizer and pesticide application, irrigation), harvesting and threshing
would not increase for rice and soybeans, even though their yields are
assumed to drop by 5 to 10%. They would, however, increase for farmer grown
sugarcane because of the BTIIAS sugarcane program expansion. With the project,
due to better water control, crop management techniques and higher yields,
these activities would increase by up to 33% for rice and soybean.
4.        In Ciujung, without the project, labor requirements would remain
as at present. With the project, although farmers would save the time now
expended on replanting their wet season rice after December-February floods,
crop management, harvesting and threshing activities would increase by up
to 40%.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
5.        Table 2 gives estimates of the total monthly and annual labor
requirements. The present annual requirements are 30.3 million man-days in
Madiun and 1.4 million man-days in Ciujung, only 33% and 20% of the estimated
supply respectively. Although the data is limited, this indicates the exten-
sive underemployment in the areas. With full development of the project,
annual labor utilization would reach 35.1 man-days in Madiun and 1.8 million
man-days in Ciujung, still only some 33% and 20% of the projected labor
supply. Without the project, however, the situation would be considerably
worse, with only 28% and 15% respectively of the available labor being
utilized.
6.        In both areas the monthly requirement for labor has a pronounced
seasonal pattern, with peak requirements occurring in April-May. Neverthe-
less, since even at full development, utilization would be only 55% in Madiun
and 37% in Ciujung in these periods, there would be sufficient labor avail-
able to meet peak monthly requirement.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
7.        Detailed information is limited on wages actually paid in the
project areas. Even if it were available, wages paid probably would not
reflect the true cost of labor to the economy, for much of the work is
done by unpaid family labor or in exchange for work done by other farmers.
In addition wage rates are frequently set by custom rather than market
forces, and labor mobility is limited. Therefore, the economic cost of
labor can only be roughly approximated. The average peak wage rate is
Rp 230/man-day in Madiun and Rp 200/man-day in Ciujung. However, unem-
ployment is substantial even during this peak season, and this rate most
probably does not reflect the economic cost of labor. Rather, it may
be that social custom and a recognition by employers of the laborer's
subsistence needs that supports wages at this level. Data on nonpeak
wages and on wages available from alternative types of employment during
this period are also limited; generally, however, these wages are lower
than peak season wages, and undoubtedly, the cost of labor to the economy
is lower during these periods than during the peak season.
8.        The following analysis attempts to estimate an opportunity cost
of labor in the project areas, taking into account generally prevailing
rural unemployment and the large seasonal fluctuation in labor demand.
It does not attempt to adjust for intertemporal or interpersonal income
distribution effects nor to value leisure. The marginal opportunity
cost of farm labor in the project areas can be approximated by S-shaped
curves (Charts 16940 and 16941).
9.        Three straight-line segments can reasonably approximate each
S-shaped curve, with three points determining the curves' position. Point A
on the chart represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor and
includes the economic value of alternative employment (casual nonfarm labor),
plus the value of additional food required because of the more strenuous farm
work with the project. From available information this opportunity cost is
estimated at Rp 100/man-day in Madiun and Rp 90/man-day in Ciujung. Point B
indicates where the opportunity cost equals the market wage and rural labor



ANNEX 13
Page 3
is fully employed, estimated at Rp 230/man-day in Madiun and Rp 200/man-day
in Ciujung. Point C indicates the point at which the wage rate is sufficiently
high that laborers are attracted to meet any increases in demand, thus, to
the right of this point the opportunity cost and market wage remain constant.
For Madiun this wage is estimated at Rp 260/man-day; for Ciujung at Rp 230/
man-day.
10.       The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from the
curve at the corresponding level of labor utilization. With the project it
varies from Rp 104 to Rp 128/man-day in Madiun, and from Rp 91 to Rp 98/man-
day in Ciujung. The total economic cost of farm 'Labor is the area under the
curve at each level of employment. Table 2 shows the future economic cost of
farm labor with the project at full development and without the project.
This table is summarized as follows:
Future Economic Cost of Farm Labor
With Project   Without Project   Incremental Cost
---------------- (Rp million) ------------------
Madiun                3,731.4           3,207.7             523.7
Ciujung                 167.9             129.8              38.1
These figures would be equivalent to pricing the incremental employment at a
shadow wage rate of Rp 116/man-day in Madiun and Rp 93/man-day in Ciujung.
For the total labor requirement at full development the average shadow wage
rate would be Rp 106/man-day in Madiun, and Rp 92/man-day in Ciujung.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Total 1Nonthly Labor Requirem&ents for Crops ('000 man-days)
Area     Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May.    June    July    Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
(ha)
ladiun Rehabilitation Area
Wet season
Irrigated Rice                  -P/a  65,700   2,431   2,300          657   1,642   1,380       657       -        -        -        -    1,314   2,102   12,483
W     65,700   2,431   2,300        657   1,642   1,380       657       -       -        -        -    1,314   2,102   12,483
W     65,700   2,628   2,497   2,431   2,365   1,774           -        -       -        -        -    1,314   2,102   15,111
Dry season
Irrigated Rice                  - P      15,500        -       -       -       232      605     852      233      248      620       -       -        -      2,790
15,500             -       _        -      232      605      852      233     248      620       -        -        -     2,790
W     15,500        -       -       155     682      868      387      465     853       -        -        -        -     3,410
Irrigated Soybean I /b          - P      30,000        -       -       -       300      750     600      450      690      660       -       -        -      3,450
W     30,000        -       -        -      300      750      600      450     690      660       -        -        -     3,450
W     30,000        -       -       300     750      750      600      750     900       -        -        -        -     4,050
Irrigated Soybean II /b         - P      35,500        -               -        -        -      355      532      710      710     710      888       -      3,905
W     35,500        -       -        -       -        -       355      532      710     710      710      888       -     3,905
W     35,500        -       -        -       -        -       355      887     888      532      888   1,065        -     4,615
Irrigated Farmoer Sugarcane    - P        2,700       27       27      62      197      365      373     286      173       89       62      27       27    1,715
W      2,700       38       38       84     202      400      402      319      194     121       70       38       38    1,944
W      2,700       38       38       84     202      400      402      319      194     121       70       38       38    1,944
Irrigated Factory Sugarcane   - P         6,600       92       92     218      686   1,267   1,294       990      594      310      218      93       86    5,940
'      6,600       92       92      218     686   1,267   1,327   1,023        594      310      218       93       86    6,006
W      6,600       92       92      218     686   1,267   1,327   1,023        594      310      218       93       86    6,006
Total                  - P    156,000   2,550   2,419         937   3,057   4,367   4,131   2,491   2,415   2,389          990   2,322   2,215   30,283
N    156,000   2,561   2,430        959   3,062   4,402   4,193   2,557   2,436   2,421          998   2,333   2,226   30,578
N    156,000   2,758   2,627   3,188   4,685   5,059   3,071   3,444   3,429            963   1,176   2,510   2,226   35,136
Ciujung area
Wet season
Irrigated Rice                  - P       5,700      200      228      85      114      114      142      -        -        -        -       143     228    1,254
W      5,700      200      228       85      114     114      142       -       -        -        -       143      228    1,254
W      5,700      200       86      142      199     228       85       -       -        -        -       143      228    1,311
Dry season
Irrigated Rice                  -P          850       -        -       -         6       20       41      27       24       35        9      -        -        162
W         850      -        -        -         6      20       41       27       24      35        9       -        -        162
W      2,300       -        -        -        28      60       83       80      103      117      35       -        -        506
Total                  - P       6,550      200      228       85      120     134      183       27       24       35       9      143      228    1,416
W      6,550      200      228       85      120     134      183       27       24      35        9      143      228    1,416
W      8,000      200       86      142     227      288      168       80      103     117       35      143      228    1,817
/a P - Present
W - Future without project
W - Future with project
/b Soybean I = early crop planted after wet season paddy crop.
Soybean II 2 late crop planted after early soybean crop or sugarcane.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development (1986)
Jan      Feb      Mar      Apr      May      June    July    Aug         Sept     Oct      Nov      Dec       Total
Madiun
Labor Requirement                     W /a    2.7    2.6          3.2      4.7      5.1      3.1       3.4      3.4      1.0      1.2      2.5       2.2       35.1
(million man-days)                  W        2.6    2.4        1.0       3.1      4.4      4.2      2.6      2.4      2.4       1.0      2.3      2.2        30.6
Marginal Opportunity Cost             W       109     109       111      118      128      110      112       112      104      104      108       107          -
(Rp/man-day)                        W      109     108       104      110      114       114      109      108      108      104       107      107           -
Average Economic Cost of Farm         W      105     105        106      108      109      105      106      106       102      102      112       104        106
Labor (Rp/man-day)                  W      105     104       102       105      107      107      105      104      104       102      104      104         105
Economic Cost of Farm Labor           W      282.2  271.7       337.6   506.2   555.3   325.5   360.4   360.4   102.0   122.4   280.0   227.7   3,731.4
(Rp million)                        W      271.7  249.6      102.0   325.5   470.8   449.4   271.7   249.6   249.6    102.0   238.1   227.7   3,207.7
Incremental Economic Cost of
Farm Labor (Rp million)            W-W      10.5   22.1      235.6    180.7      84.5  -123.9      88.7   110.8  -147.6        20.4     41.9       0        523.7
Ciuiung
Labor Requirement                     W         0.20   0.09       0.14     0.23     0.29      0.17     0.08    0.10      0.12     0.03      0.14    0.23         1.82
(million man-days)                  W        0.20   0.23       0.09      0.12    0.13    0.18       0.03    0.02       0.03     0.01     0.14    0.23         1.41
Marginal Opportunity Cost              W       94      92        93       96       98        94       92       92       93       91        93       96           _
(Rp/man-day)                        W       94      96        92        93       93       94       91       90        91       90       93       96           _
Average Economic Cost of Farm         W        92      90        91       93       94        92       91       91       92        90       91       93          92
Labor (Rp/man-day)                  W       92      93         91       92       92       92       90        90       90       90       91        93         92
Economic Cost of Farm Labor           W        18.4    8.1       12.8     21.4     27.3      15.6      7.3      9.1     11.0       2.7     12.8     21.4       167.9
(Rp million)                        W       18.4   21.4        8.2      11.0     11.9     16.6      2.7       1.8      2.7      0.9     12.8      21.4      129.8
Incremental Economic Cost of
Farm Labor (Rp million)            W-W       0    -13.3         4.6     10.4     15.4    -1.0        4.6      7.3      8.3       1.8      0        0          38.1
la  W = Future with project.
W = Future without project.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Analysis
Benefits
1.        As Madiun rehabilitation, pilot groundwater development and Ciujung
drainage are distinct, separate groups of projects works, each has been
separately analyzed. Benefits are estimated from the increased agricultural
production resulting from irrigation rehabilitation and construction at Madiun
and the groundwater development, and improved drainage at Ciujung. Additional
benefits would accrue at Ciujung because of reduced flood damage to 1,400 ha
of fishponds. Due to insufficient data, other reductions in flood damage,
such as to public infrastructure (roads, bridges), could not be calculated,
and thus were not included in project benefits. Annex 2 shows the expected
crop yields, Annex 11 explains projected commodity and fertilizer prices as
derived from Bank forecasts; Annex 12 gives the expected crop production
costs and labor requirements/ha; while Tables 1 and 2 show the expected gross
and net crop returns/ha (without accounting for labor). Chart 16987 shows the
proposed cropping calendar. Table 3 shows the expected annual agricultural
benefits at full agricultual development of the components.
Foreign Exchange
2.        Due to the existence of import taxes, quantitative restrictions and
export subsidies, the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00 misstates
the economic value to the economy of foreign exch-ange used in carrying out the
project, and savings through increased grain production. Using the Squire-
van der Tak approach,/l the estimated standard conversion factor for Indonesia
is 0.8. This rate (Rp 520 = US$1.0) was used in the economic analysis.
Investment Costs
3.        As calculated for the economic analyses and expressed in end 1977
prices, the total investment costs are:
Madiun Rehabilitation. Rp 25,828 million (at official exchange rate,
Rp 23,430 million). Estimated annual O&M costs would be Rp 5,000/ha for
the main system and Rp 3,900/ha for the tertiary units.
Groundwater Pilot Project. Rp 3,646 million (at official exchange rate,
Rp 2,916 million). Pumps and engines, costing Rp 550 million, would
have to be replaced in years 12 and 22. Estimated average annual O&M
costs would be Rp 27,900/ha.
/1 L. Squire and H.G. van der Tak; Economic Analysis of Projects; Baltimore
and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press 1975.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Ciujung Drainage. Rp 5,274 million (at official exchange rate,
Rp 4,805 million). Estimated annual O&M costs would be Rp 5,000/ha
for the main system, and Rp 1,500/ha at the farm level.
Investment costs have been adjusted to reflect the economic value of unskilled
labor used in construction (civil works reduced 5%). In determining the
Rupiah value of investment costs, foreign exchange costs were converted to
Rupiah using a standard coversion factor of 0.8 (para. 2). Costs include
physical contingencies, but exclude price contingencies.
Development Period
4.        According to the project implementation schedule, development would
occur as follows:
Madiun Rehabilitation. 15% (11,300 ha) of the project area would be
completed by March 1978. The following dry season crop in 1978 would be
the first grown under upgraded conditions. Similarly, 40% (30,000 ha)
would be completed by March 1979; 75% (56,300 ha) by March 1980, and
100% by March 1981, and the following dry-season crop would be the first
grown under upgraded conditions on each completed area.
Groundwater Pilot Project. Half of the area would be completed and
ready for initial use in April 1979, the remtainder of the area in April
1980. The first crops grown under upgraded conditions would be the 1979
and 1980 dry-season crops.
Ciujung Drainage. 15% (900 ha) of the project area would be completed
in March 1978; 40% (2,300 ha) in March 1979; 75% (4,300 ha) in March
1980; and 100% in March 1981. The following dry-season crops would be
the first crops grown under upgraded conditions on each completed
area.
5.        Beginning with the first crop grown under upgraded conditions,
farmers would achieve the projected yield levels over five years in equal
installments. Madiun rehabilitation would reach full development in 1986/87;
pilot groundwater developments in 1985/86; and Ciujung drainage in 1986/87.
Labor Pricing
6.        Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage.  This varies seasonally,
and averages Rp 106/man-day at Madiun and Rp 92/man-day at Ciujung over the
year under "with" project conditions at full development, compared to a full
employment market wage of Rp 230 and Rp 200 per man-day respectively.
Annex 14 presents ia detailed analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
7.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over 30 years the economic rate of return is 21% for Madiun reha-
bilitation (Table 4); 13% for the Groundwater pilot project (Table 5); and
18% for Ciujung drainage (Table 4).



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        Sensitivity of the rates of return was tested to cost overruns;
reductions and delays in benefits; a 25% increase in project benefits;
valuing of farm labor at the market wage rate throughout the year; and
valuing foreign exchange at the official exchange rate (Rp 415 = US$1.00).
Except for the Groundwater pilot project, in none of the cases tested would
the rate of return fall below 14%. On the other hand, if the level of
benefits are 25% higher than forecasted, the rates of return would be above
20%.



AJNNEX 14
Table 1
INDOYESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production
Farm Gate        Gross Value       Production       Net Value    Net Benefit From
Area     Yield           Price         of Production        Cost la      of Production    Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)   (Rp '000/ton)                 --        (Rp '000) -R---               __ (Rp million)
l(adiun Rehabilitation
Wet Season
Irrigated rice            W/b    65,700          3.0           98              294                 65             229               15,045
W       65,700         4.2           98              412                 78            334               21,944
Drv Season
Irrigated - Rice          W        15,500        2.5           98              245                 51             194               3,007
W        15,500        3.8           98              372                 65            307                4,759
- Factory sugarcane   1W          6,600      110.0            18            1,980                186          1,794               11,840
W        6,600      110.0            18            1,980                186          1,794               11,840
- Farmer sugarcane       W         2,700       90.0           18            1,620                152          1,468                3,964
W         2,700      90.0            18            1,620                152          1,468                3,964
- Soybean I              1c  W    30,000        0.55         189              104                 12              92               2,760
W       30,000         0.8          189              15].                20            131                3,930
- Soybean II             W       35,500         0.4          189               76                 11              65               2,308
W       35,500         0.63         189              1lSI                19             100               3,550
Total                       W       156,000                                                                                           38,924
W      156,000                                                                                           49,987
Incremental net benefit  W-W                                                                                                          11.063
Ciuiung Drainage
Wet Season
Irrigated rice            W         5,700        2.2           98              216                 46             170                  969
'1        5,700        3.6           99              356                 65            291                1,659
Drv Season
Irrigated rice            W           850        2.6           98              255                 31             224                  190
W         2,300        3.8           99              376                 62             314                  722
Total                       W         6,550                                                                                            1,159
W        8.000                                                                                            2,381
Incremental net benefit   W-W                                                                                                          1.222
la  Based on Annex 12, Tables 2,3.  Production costs do not include labor.
LbW = future without project; W = future with project.
Le  Soybean I = early soybean crop; Soybean II = late soybean crop.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production:  Groundwater Pilot Project
Farm Gate        Gross Value       Production        Net Value    Net Benefit From
Area    Yield           Price         of Production         Cost /a      of Production    Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)   (Rp '000/ton)    --          -       - (Rp '000) ______                  (Rp million)
Wet Season
Irrigated rice       W /b    2,500       4.2             98               412                 78            334                   835
W       2,800       4.2            98               412                 78             334                  935
Rainfed rice          W          300      2.0            98               196                 36             160                  48
w            _       _
Dry Season
Irrigated - Rice    W            400      2.6            98               255                 51             204                   82
W        1,420      4.2            98               412                 65             347                  486
- Soybean I /c      W        1,420      0.6            189               113                 12            101                   143
W        1,400      1.2           189               227                 34             193                  270
- Soybean II        W            -       -              -                 -                  -               -                    -
W        1,400      1.2           189               227                 34             193                  270
Rainfed soybean      W           120      0.44          189                83                 11              72                    9
w            -       -
Total                   W        4,740                                                                                            1,117
W        7,000                                                                                            1,961
Incremental net benefit                                                                                                             844
/a  See footnote /a, Table 1.
/b  See footnote /b, Table 1.
/c See footnote /c, Table 1.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Analysis - Incremental Net Value of Agricultural Production at Full Project Development in 1986
Net Return to Project Area         Incremental    Less Incremental   Incremental Net Value
Without Costing Farm Labor /a   Net Return         Farm Labor Cost          of Production
------(Rp million)            -   (Rp million)      (Rp million)        (Rp million)  (US$'000)
Without Project   With Project
Madiun Rehabilitation         38,924            49,987        11,063             524 /b              10,539       20,267
Pilot Groundwater              1,117             1,961           844              72 /c                  772        1,485
Ciujung Drainage               1,159             2,381         1,222              38 /b               1,184        2,277
/a From Tables 1 and 2.
/b From Annex 13, Table 2.
/c Calculated using average economic cost of farm labor in the "with" and "without" project situations as
calculated for Madiun Rehabilitation in Annex 13, Table 2.
H>M
4 M



ANNEX 14
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Costs and Returns
(Rp billion)
Project Costs              Incremental
Year                          Capital      O&M       Total    Project Benefits
Madiun Rehabilitation
1           (1977/78) /a    4.13        0           4.13            0
2           (1978/79)        5.94       0.15        6.09            0.09
3           (1979/80)        6.72       0.38        7.10            0.44
4           (1980/81)        9.04       0.60        9.64            1.16
5           (1981/82)        0          0.67        0.67            2.42
6           (1982/83)        0          0.67        0.67            4.24
7           (1983/84)        0          0.67        0.67            6.46
8           (1984/85)        0          0.67        0.67            8.64
9           (1985/86)        0          0.67        0.67           10.06
10-30 (1986/87 - 2006/07)         0         0.67        0.67           10.54
Economic Rate of Return                                                  21%
Ciujung Drainage
1           (1977/78) /a    0.63        0           0.63            0
2           (1978/79)        1.69       0.01        1.70            0.04
3           (1979/80)        2.00       0.02        2.02            0.21
4           (1980/81)        0.95       0.03        0.98            0.48
5           (1981/82)        0          0.04        0.04            0.81
6            (1982/83)       0          0.04        0.04            1.04
7           (1983/84)        0          0.04        0.04            1.13
8           (1984/85)        0          0.04        0.04            1.19
9           (1985/86)        0          0.04        0.04            1.24
10-30 (1986/87 - 2006/07)         0         0.04        0.04            1.25
Economic Rate of Return                                                  18%
/a Indonesian financial year, April 1 to March 31.



ANNEX 14
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Economic Costs and Returns: Groundwater Pilot Project
(Rp million)
Project: Costs              Incremental
Year                           Capital    0&M       Total   Project Benefits
1            (1977/78)          550        0       550               0
2            (1978/79)        1,280        0    1,280                0
3            (1979/80)        1,816       45    1,861              120
4            (1980/81)            0       78        78             300
5            (1981/82)            0       78        78             420
6            (1982/83)            0       78        78             530
7            (1983/84)            0       78        78             650
8            (1984/85)            0       78        78             750
9 - 11 (1985/86 - 1987/88)              0       78        78            772
12            (1988/89)          550       78       628             772
13 - 21 (1989/90 - 1997/98)              0       78        78            772
22            (1998/99)          550       78       628             772
23 - 30 (1999/00 - 2006/07)              0       78        78            772
Economic Rate of Return                                                  13%



ANNEX 14
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Sensitivity Analysis
Madiun        Groundwater     Ciujung
Rehabilitation   Pilot Project    Drainage
___________________  (% ) - --------------
Best estimate                            21              13             18
Construction costs increased 20%         19              10             15
Benefits delayed by two years            19             12              17
Construction costs increased by
20% and benefits delayed by
two years                              16             10              14
Benefits decreased by 25%                17               9             14
Benefits increased by 25%                25              16             22
Farm labor valued at market wage
rate throughout the year               20             11              16
Foreign exchange costs valued at
official exchange rate                 19             10              16



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA.
IRRIGATION VIII
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        The annex examines the implications for public revenues and farmers'
incomes of the Government's policies towards the recovery of the capital and
recurrent costs of the project. In determining the extent of cost recovery
and the relation of project charges to benefits, two indices have been used,
which are defined as follows for the present project.
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of
incremental project charges paid by project farmers to the
present worth of incremental project construction and
operation and maintenance costs; and
(b) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of
incremental project charges paid by a typical farm family
to the present worth of incremental "project rent" accruing
to the family before paying project charges, where "project
rent"' is defined as net incremental income less incremental
value of family labor, general taxes, returns to management,
and incremental investments, and allowances for uncertainty and
miscellaneous costs.
The upper limit of the rent recovery index is 100%, but it would normally be
less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives, and the
cost of collecting the taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure in prac-
tice but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative estimates of
its various components based on qualitative considerations.
2.        All water charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the 30-year evaluation
period of the project, and in terms of end-1977 constant prices. Costs and
benefits represent financial flows.
3.        Farmers pay a land tax (IPEDA), and water charges for the operation
and maintenance of the tertiary and or quaternary unit. Incremental IPEDA
can be considered a direct project tax, which contributes towards the opera-
tion and maintenance, plus capital repayments, on the main irrigation system.
The IPEDA rate varies depending on the quality of the main irrigation system.
Similarly, the tertiary/quaternary unit water charge would vary according
to the development of the tertiary unit. For example, at Madiun where ter-
tiary and quaternary canals and drains would be constructed under the project,
this charge would be higher than at Ciujung, where only minimum tertiary
canal and drain construction, which farmers could construct on their own,
would be done under this project.



A1INEX 15
Page 2
Cost Recovery
4.        Madiun.  In the cost recovery analysis, US$60.5 million construction
costs are charged against Madiun rehabilitation. This includes US$48.4 million
base cost estimate plus US$12.1 million physical contingencies. Annual incre-
mental O&M costs would average Rp 3,000 (US$7)/ha for the main system. At
full project development, annual incremental project charges would be Rp 8,900
(US$21)/ha. Discounted at 10%, the present value of incremental construction
and O&M costs are US$46.3 million, and incremental project charges US$13.0 mil-
lion, giving a 28% cost recovery index.
5.        Ciujung.  US$12.0 million construction costs are charged against
Ciujung drainage. This represents US$9.6 million base cost estimate plus
US$2.4 physical contingencies. Annual incremental O&M costs would average
Rp 3,000 (US$7)/ ha for the main system. At full project development, annual
incremental project charges would be Rp 6,500 (US$16)/ha. Discounted at 10%,
the present value of incremental construction and O&M costs are US$9.6
million, and incremental project charges US$0.9 million, giving a 9% cost
recovery index.
Rent Recovery
6.        Madiun.  At Madiun, rent recovery indices are calculated for
owner-operators and sharecroppers on 0.2 ha, 0.5 ha and 1.3 ha farms. These
sizes represent small, average and large farms. Table 1 lists the assumptions
used in calculating project rent. Discounting incremental project rent and
charges at 10% over 30 years, the rent recovery indices vary from 74% to 100%
for owner-operators; and 13% to 31% for sharecroppers (Table 1).
7.        Ciujung.  Similarly, at Ciujung rent recovery indices are calculated
for owner-operators and sharecroppers on 0.3 ha and 0.8 ha farms. These sizes
represent small and large farms. Rent recovery indices are 31% and 34% for
owner-operators, and 6% and 4% for sharecroppers (Table 1).
Water Charge Policy
8.        No increase is proposed in the projected land taxes and water
charges farmers would pay under the project. The project charges in the
Madiun area are considered satisfactory. At Ciujung, even though owner-
operators would have rent recovery indices less than 50%, no increases are
proposed in charges. At present some 90% of the project area's farm families
have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level of US$95 (1975
prices), and at full project development some 70% of all farm families per
capita incomes would still be below this figure. Besides paying a substan-
tial total land tax, Rp 9,000 (US$22)/ha, irrigators would pay at least
10% of their gross value of production in village taxes, as well as contri-
buting to the social life of the village through Mosque taxes, compulsory
feasts, and allowing all village members, if they wish, to partake in the
harvest of the farmer's paddy crop. The harvester retains up to one fifth
of the crop as payment, a wage rate considerably higher than the average
market rate.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
9.        Sim41arly, as even at full project development practically all
sharecropper families would have per capita incomes below the absolute
poverty, the low rent recovery indices for this group are most appropriate.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
Rent Recoverv
(Rp '000)
Typical Farm
Madiun Rehabilitation                                     Ciuiuma Drainma&
0.2 ha                0.5 ha                1.3 ha                0.3 ha                 0.8 ha
Own. Oper. Sharecr. Own. Oper. Sharecr. Own. Oper. Shareer. Own. Oper. Sharecr. Own. Oper. Sbaracr.
A. At Full Development
1. Incremental - Gross value of farm production /a              29          15        76          38       180          90         61         31        165          83
2.              - Less cash production costs /a                  6           3        14           7        35           18        15          8         43          22
3.              - Equals net cash income                        23          12        62          31       145           72        46         23        122          61
4.              - Less imputed family labor cost /b              3           3         6           6         13          13         3          3          9            9
5.              - Less imputed farmer's management /c            1           1         4           2         9            5         3          1          8            3
6.              - Less imputed return on own capital /d          6           -        18           -        47            -        12          -         32           -
7.              - Less allowance for risk/uncertainty /e    6                3        15           8        36           18        12          5         33          12
8.              -Less general taxes /f                           3           2         8           4        18            9         6          2         17            6
9.              -Less miscellaneous g.                           1           1         4           2         9            5         3          1          8            3
10. Equals Project Rent                                           3           2         7           9         13          22         7         11         15           28
11. Incremental - Water charges (0&M)                             1           0.5       2            1         5           3         0.5        0.5         1           1
12.              - Land taxes (IPEDA)                             I           -         3           -          7           -         2          -           4           -
13.              - Total direct charges                           2           0.5       5            1        12           3         2.5        0.5        5            1
B.  Discounted Flows Over Project Life /h
14. Project rent                                                 23          16        54           70       101         171        54         85         117         217
15. Water charges                                                 9           5        19            9        47          28         5          5           9           9
16. Land taxes                                                    8           -        23            -        54           -        12          -          31           -
17. Total direct charges                                         17           5        42            9       101          28        17           5         40           9
18. Rent Recovery (X)                                            74          31        78           13       100          16        31           6         34           4
/a  Figures from Annex 12, Tables 6 and 7.
/b  Wage rate Rp 230/mn-day at Madiun, and Rp 200/man-day at Ciujung.
/c At 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/d At 10X of farmer's own incremental capital.
fe At 20X of incremental gross value of farm production.
/f Village taxes, at 10% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/g Storage losses at 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/h Net present value of project rent and incremental charges, which are discounted at 10% per year over the project life (30 years).
1E1 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VilI
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
FOR MADIUN REHABILITATION AND CIUJUNG DRAINAGE
r            ~~~~~~1/
SUB-PROJECT    Lmmumufmmmmuuhmmummuumuhummhummuuuummuu    PROVINCIAL
MANAGER                                            ADVISORY GROUP
2/:
CONSULTING    I                                    DEPUTY SUB-PROJECT
ENGINEERS                                              MANAGER
I                               I~~~~~~~~~~~27
DEPUTY   _                                             DEPUTY
DEPUTY 0 & M                                          ENGINEERING                                           ADMINISTRATION
2/               2/                                                     2 
SURVEY & -                _         MCANICL 
DESIGN        CONSTRUCTION            UNIT         ADMINISTRATION      FINANCE         COMPTROLLER
0 & M SECTIONS
1/ PROVINCIAL STAFF
2/ PROSIDA STAFF
World Bank-8964



INDONESIA IRRIGATION PROJECT VilI
PROSIDA
MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
DIR. GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP
*|GEN. MANAG.    - _ ADVISR  G°P
PROSIDA
CHIEF     l                     l    CHIEF                   CHIEF
| ENGINEERING  |                   |  OP. & MAIN.             ADMIISTR.
.        ~~~ENG./CONSTRUC.       ENG./URV.DS
ASST. TO THE                                           ASST. FORST. FOR                          ASST.FO
GEN. MANAG.          ESUPERV. CONST.|S.EF
ASST. FR                 ASST. FOR                 ASST. FOR   l     _     ST  O
BUILDIGFC|                DESIGN                     HYDROLG |             GE.AFI
| ASST. FOR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~O
CONSULTANT  E sSUB. PROJECT           SUB. PROJECTS      SUB. PROJECTS       SUB.TPRUB PROJEC                        CNSL~TANTI
FOR MADIUN         (E-SERIES)         A-SERIES                               C-SEERSI            D-SERESFOR CIREBONII
WRld BEEANk-GT.
World Bank-16008



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT Vill
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION CHART
[ MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
'I'll~
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTORATE OF         DRCOAEDRCOAEIETRTEDIRECTORATE OF                                                          DIRECTORATE OF
PLANNING AND          DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE            IRRIGATION             RESEARCH OF
PROGRAMMING             OF RIVER               SWAMPS              OF IRRIGATION            EQUIPMENT           WATER PROBLEMS
|   AT                                                                       PROSIDA
World Bank-16017



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
ESTIMATED OPPORTUNITY COST FOR FARM LABOR: CIUJUNG
250
C
200
~-150
0
0
a-  100
al       A
0
50
50
0.1          0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5           0.6          0.7          0.8           0.9          1.0
Farm Labor Utilization (million man-days/month)
World Bank-16940



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VilI
ESTIMATED OPPORTUNITY COST FOR FARM LABOR: MADIUN
C
250 -                                                                                                                           B
200  -
C
co
150_,. 
-y
CL
150
50
0
1.0         2.0          3.0         4.0          5.0          6.0          7.0          8.0          9.0         10.0         11.0
Farm Labor Utilization (million man-days/month)
World sank-16941



IRRIGATION VliI
MADIUN REHABILITATION
PROJECTED CROP CALENDAR
JAN  FEB  MAR  APR  MAY  JUN  JUL  AUG  SEP  OCT  NOV  DEC
WET SEASON PADDY   123,^         ....
DRY SEASON PADDY                         34,400 h
12,900 ha
SUGAR CANE
PALAWIJA I                                68,030 ha
PALAWIJA 11                                                50,770 ha
LEGEND
NURSERY PERIOD       IRRIGATION PERIOD        DRYING UP FIELD
zI L.l_
I l
I1-G ROWI NG PE R IOD
World Bank-16987



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIII
MADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE CHART
BALONG SCHEME - AREA 'A'
J  I  F      M      A    M    I  J        J|  A          S      0      N      D    Total
1 st Paddy          \     30h                                   _        \
780 ha            \            Soybeans                      Peanuts
_  &  <   390 ha  \\        390 ha
Crop Water Requirement, (mm)*
1st Paddy                        0.76   0.47   0.41    -       _      _      _      _      _      _      0.77   2.00   441
2nd Paddy                          _      -     0.14   1.23   0.86   0.77   0.14    _-         -          -      -    314
Soybeans                                                                    0.38   0.7    _       _       _      _      45
Peanuts                           _-                                                -      0.60   0.28    _      -      88
(mm)         0.76   0.47   0.55   1.23   0.86   0.77   0.52   0.7    0.60   0.28   0.77   2.00    -
m m3/sec)   0.22   0.15   0.16   0.37   0.25   0.23   0.15   0.02   0.18   0.08   0.23  0.58   -
Available surface water (m3/sec)                        0.14   0.22   0.34   0.35   0.19   0.11   0.07   0.06  0.05   0,07   0.11   0.21    -
Project water requirement (m3/sec)                      0.08   -       -     0.02   0.06   0.12   0.08    -      0.13   0.01   0.12  0.37   -
All crops, growing season
L i-,::,::: -Paddy, drying of paddy field and harvesting
Remarks:
Crop water requirement is net of consumptive use, effective rainfall, puddling and nursery requirements and losses, and
is based upon data derived for Madiun Rehabilitation Project. r
** Estimated from discharge records at the head of Sungkur Kidul canal system to be available in 3 years out of 4.
*  Total crop water requirement less available surface water
World Bank-16988



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION Vill
MADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE CHART
BALONG SCHEME -AREA 'B'
J  I  F      M       A      M      J       J     A       S      0      N       D    Total
2nd Paddy                                          500 ha
1st Paddy  .::>.250 ha
500 ha                          Soybeans                      Peanuts
250 ha                       250 ha
Crop Water Requirement (m3/sec)
1 st Paddy                          0.75   0.48   0.16    -      -       _      _                           0.78    1.98  415
2nd Paddy                           -       -    0.16   1.24   0.86   0.73   0.16    -                                    315
Soybeans                             _                                   _     0.5    0.43    -       _      _             48
Peanuts                              _                                                 -      0.62   0.27    _             89
( mm)*    0.75   0.48   0.32   1.24   0.86   0.73   0.21   0.43   0.62   0.27   0.78   1.98   867
Ttl(m3/sec)   0.14   0.10   0.06   0.24   0.16   0.14   0.04   0.08   0.12   0.05   0.15   0.37
Available surface water (m3/sec) *                         0.24   0.32   0.29   0.26   0.07   0.04   0.03    _       _-            -      0.04   -
Project water requirement (m3/sec) *                       _                           0.09   0.10   0.01   0.08   0.12   0.05   0.15    0.33    -
mZj  All crops, growing season
E     Z   Paddy, drying of paddy field and harvesting
Remarks:   *Crop water requirement is net of consumptive use, effective rainfall, puddling and nursery requirements and losses, and
is based upon data derived for Madiun Rehabilitation Project.
Estimated from discharge records at the head of the Kedung Celeng canal system to be available in 3 years out of 4.  World Bank-16989
*  Total crop water requirement less available surface water.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VIIl
MADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE CHART
TANON SCHEME
i J   |F      M      A   I M        J   |  i       A      S       O      N      D    Total
_  _ _          ..     ,_        _                   .~___ 
2nd Paddy
1 st Paddy   .150 ha
300ha
Peanuts                      Maize
150 ha                       150 ha
Crop Water Requirement (mm)
1st Paddy                  0.98   0.48   0.9             -      -      -       -                    0.69   2.05   429
2nd Paddy                   _      _     0.18   1.38   2.68   2.25   0,18    _                       -       -     667
Peanuts                    _       _      _              -     1.21    _      0.18    -      -       _      _     139
Maize                       _             - _                          -      0.18   1.90   2.68                  476
TOTAL (mm)                 0.53   0.28   0.10   0.40   0.75   0.98   0.03    0.08   0.52   0.72   0.38    1.13  1711
Project Water Requirement (m3/sec)                0.11   0.06   0.02   0.08   0.15    .20   0.01    0.02   0.11   0.15   0.08    0.23   -
I   All crops, growing season
Paddy, drying of paddy fields and harvesting
Remarks: * No surface water supply presently available in the area.                                                     World Bank-16990
Crop water requirements is net of consumptive use, effective rainfall, puddling and nursery requirements and
losses, and based upon data derived for Madiun Rehabilitation Project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION  Vill
MADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE
CARUBAN SCHEME
J     F  I       | A      M       J     J      A      S     0      N      D      Total 
_   fl i \>    ~2nd Paddya i\
1 st Paddy t | \600 ha X
1,140 ha         \          Soybeans               Soybeans
s  v   |\  540 ha  X    |\  540 ha  _ a
60 ha Sugarcane
Crop Water Requirements (mm/sec)1 _==                                                               ==
lst Paddy                    75    49    43       -      -      -      -     -      -      -      77    200     444
2nd Paddy                     -      -     27    246   174   151    27       -      -      -      -     -       625
lst Soybeans                  _-           -      -      -      -     80    10                                    90
2nd Soybeans                  _-        -      -      -         -     5     124    53      -      -      -       182
Sugarcane                     -      5     12    55    50    50    45    37    75    65    25            -      419
1,760
mm)         75    54    82    301   224   201   157   171   128    65    102   200            -
(m3/sec) 0.32   0.23   0.24  0.57   0.39  0.42   0.29  0.35   0.21   0.06  0.37   0.85       -
Available surface water (m3/sec)2                   0.42   0.43   0.23  0.26    -       -     -      -      -      -    0.10   0.35     -
Project water requirement (m3/sec)3                  -            0.01   0.31   0.39   0.42   0.29   0.35  0.21   0.06   0.27   0.50    -
Paddy, drying up of paddy field and harvesting  | I\ All crops, growing season
Remarks:
'Crop water requirement is net of consumptive use, effective rainfall, puddling and bursery requirernents and losses, and
is based upon data derived for Madiun Rehabilitation Project.
2Estimated from discharge records at the head of Notopuro canal system in the year with 70% dependability.
3Total crop requirement less available surface water.
World Bank-17144



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VilI
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
RIADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT AND FEASIBILITY STUDIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----NEW CONSULTANT CONTRACT__________________________________
YEAR                                                       1971978                                             1991980                                             1981                      1982                      1983
MONTH                           ii A SID N Di  F  A Mi  7 A SO ND  iF MA M              ASIOINI  IF MA MIJ ~J A SN Di JP M A Mi JASNDJFMMifD      M    iJAO 
PROGRESSIVE MONTH NUMBER                        1.34-5675- 123455I55 1224 5 6 7                            6 9  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9  123455759 1 2                 3 a   7 8            224        759 1   4       S 6705    23 
ACTIBITY                                                                                                                                                                                     reasibility Report, Grourud Water
UNDER CURREN CNUTTCNTRACT
A      Main Report Madiun  Solo Gros.rd Waele
P      Additional Drillhng Campaign                                      ....
C      Supplementary Report OTn Ground Water
PILOT SCHEMES (5000 ha) and FEASIBI1LITY
STIJDY of L.ARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT
1     Drilling Equipment
l.a Te,nder Docume.nts - to - Le.tter of Credit
UNDER NEW CONJSULTAPdT _CONTRACT
tIn,   Drilling equipmenrrmanufacture -to -site dlvr
Ia 2     Drilling Operations
2.a    Accent r-ds construction
o  2.h   Drilling Balong 19 wells
2.c   Drilling Caruban I 1 WeJJn
0  3     Poepsp (33) for Pilot Schemes Wells
3a    Tender Doc.nrsters -to- stil delivery                                                               _10
4        Pomer for Pilot Schemes
x     4a    Tender Documents -10- site delivery
4.b   lootallati-nof0 power
5     Geohydrology
So    Data collection - reiew - -anaYsisw om
A.b Pimnp te,sts -no installativo Production pumps
S.    Comnputer analysis
S.d   Plannrirrg large scale Groun,d Water Devpeomnot                                                                                                                                                            -
B     Topography
6Eu    Survey & Mopplng 2800Ir
7      Irrigation
l.a Dorta collection arrd study
7.bn   Plan - clesigr, 2800 noha goir systems
7.c    Corrstruetion irrigation 21100 ha
7.d    Large scale :rrigation development study
B      Hydrology
91    Agronomy - Extension
10     Agro-Ec,nomy                                                                                                              m
It     Pilot Schenmes OperationeCr
12      Feasibility Large Scale GD..ond Water De..elopment                                                                                      Bl
Consultant Specialists
I     G,nhydrologist, Se.nivr
2     Gnonydtviogist, Junvr                                    ...     
"t 3     Drilling Supervisvr, Svvivr                              ......  
,  4     Drl1Kng            Jues<v,i.Jtnivr
5     Hydorlogist
o           E Pect, ic Eng ner
..    g     Agro-Scvnomisr
11     Cor,str.c,tiOrr SL p-rvuor
z 12      Cvmputer Specialist
c2   13      ReLdnrrr Manager                                                                                                              Ma
-    14      PrIcct SPonsor
< 15      00rre Specialists as rnyulndl
1  6t     H o m e,  S op p v rt
Worisd Bank-16991
7 i  Rairry Snason Nv-rnbmer thrrough May               Current Corgultant Contract



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VilI
MADIUN REHABILITATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Indonesian Fiscal Year 76-77.  1977-78         1978-79             1979-80             1980-81          1981-82
WORKS
J1FMAMJJ11AS OINDIFI AM JJ ASUNID J F MiA MJJASON1JIFMIAIMJ JAlSONJDJj  MAIMJ J AlSON
MAPPING AND DESIGN                                                                                                                         S
TERTIARY SYSTEMSECNDAR
TERTIARY SYSTEMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            
ROADS AND BRIDGES                                                 mmu                                                     m
ONS~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   ~      ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _    |  S jt0 0 
BUILDINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS
|E    7| Rainy Season November through May



I NDONESIA
IRRIGATION Vill
CIUJUNG DRAINAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Indonesian Fiscal Year 76-77'  1977-78          1978-79             1979-80             1980-81           1981
WORKS
JIF  AMJJAISOROJ    AMJJASQNI.., okb JFA.MJ JA S oNDJ:FMMJJA SO0N  jf   AJ J A SON
MAPPING AND PLANNING
CONSULTANT DESIGN AND SUPERVISION
ROADS AND BRIDGES
RIVER EARTHWORK :T
DRAiNAGE STRUCTURES
DRAINS 
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Rainy Season November through May



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION VilI
MADIUN GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT ORGANIZATION
DIR. OF PLANNING
AND PROGRAMMING
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER
SUBPROJECT MANAGER             -    ADVISORY BODY
r ------------__. I
CONSULTANT                                                     | ASSISTANT         TREASURER
C  ADMINISTRATION         RER
.   .........  ...... I
SUPERVISOR ENGINEERING                                                      SUPERVISOR LOGISTICS
SURVEY       PROJECT
& DESIGN     OPERATION    EQUIPMENT                                              SUPPLY       WORKSHOP
DIVISION     DIVISION     DIVISION                                               DIVISION     DIVISION
World Bank-17135



tBRD 12631
sPHMPPINE5
16'6-
%PO
K.lh-t-
99
K L/A    L   I   M    A    N    T  A   N
V
A    T    E   R                     BAI'GKA                                                                        N
N
u L A W  E
N.Hk S-d-9
Oao h.
-S-dg,,g
S-'b-p,.it
54,600 h.
c
UjRno P.
9                                                                   V
MADURA
L'                                                                                                                                                       Rdb.
Su B
'QQ      20                                       L
109,



IBRD  12633
106t10E            h - n -ra -p d, -t                    ,SINGAPORE -
-ply  rkrs-t .. Pt... bp lh;              J_
-.  tVd BIA -d it, &ffilt                                     KA LIMANTAN
F>                                                                                                                               s s   t   . SdULAWESI
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT V-I- V A
CIUJUNG  DRAINAGE SUBPROJECT                                            _        _-____d _       ____y
-6100'           > .                                                            = ,                                  - .
oSusukan
Bojoneg r.ang
Morn Irrigation Canals ~~          ~          ~          Lgonio                                      ro/L
J1   --'--                                         ///~~~~~~~~~~~ fBe~~gog-    ;            /
Secondary Irrigation Canals ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      Carnan
>   ) <          4     0      / q                i5C~~~~~~~Tumnbon ;            
Kasemen                                                               I       /
Kroda
.      Roads~~W to beRhbuae
Grve Sufae  RodsanFloEbakmn
Serarg 1                             
-6°10'                                                                                                                                              6   1 .      -1/ 10-
Main Irrigation Canals
Secondary Irrigation Cantls e R       a   Csc
Roads                                                                                    .                                o
*--- - -..... Roads fo be Rehabilitated                                                              \                                °4o
-    Gravel Surfaced Roads on Flood Embankment                            S-  
IIRailway                                                               S             
-=--~ -Rivers and Main Drains\\
- Secondary Drains to be Rehabilitated and Constructed                       S\ 
Collector Drains to be Constructedc
_--~~~' Main R vers to be Rehabilitated
'-fInuJndated Areas  
lrn.roateo Areas_______ _  'p             - PEMARAYAN
N                                   t          BARRAGE
0      t      2       3      4       5
KILOMETERS
106°10'E                                                       |10620'
1  _   I                                                                              M        I
MARCH 1977



IBRD 12634
111 00'                               111 15'                               111 30'                               111°45'                                                  ARCH  1977
INDONESIA
;       MADUN ,, .,,,IRRIGATION  PROJECT MIEI
9 :)   tJ>V                  :----, 1-, MADIUN REHABILITATION AND GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
To Powodai  '        r'2i j/                               '\    \C\.........                                   1~Groundwater Irrigation Schemes
~~\I    6.   >   "FL  '                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigal-ion Service Units
| iJ '   l      1(\/          rC>K e   5  <              '?l'>xs  t \        _                    -   SProject Boundary
.....  .     ..............                           Roads
N.   ~~             -i----l--  ~Railways
ernolong                                                                        .... ..  ....                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
as- Centaurs in Meters
GROUNDWATER  POTENTIAL
sio                                                                                                                                             Excellent L   Exelet7' 030
- A~~~~'                                          L..iJ  ~~~~~~Good
'-                   'I-                            :i..,:.:..CaPea
Suri k-0    fi 0w  |W                                     r-t  9> i/wrtn;s             >S>       >      t     i    >      +      4         f\T }auarobub
oqosjuh                                                                                                 AIUN  REHABILITATION  INITIAL STAGE  UNITS
To Jogjokerta                                                                                                                                                                 Pilang Bango               Cemer Atais
Karange yar                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MADIU                                    Brendil                     Slahung
Semen K B.                 Sungkur
Andong Bawah               Gcalok Bawah
Ketonggo Bawaih            Baetil Bawah
,koh;ro                                                                                                 Ketonggo A)as               Brangkal Bawah
15c \ (                                                                                                        0 N  andong           Catur Bawah
S  0    |  n___  _                 X,4W.          - XX xt                ?1  ---   w --X            111°45'                     KIL0METERNS7'45'
t\<) 1  .   ,=) ........-.                                                               Gandong Kerik             Notopuro
d-7'45                     Bu                                                                                                                                               Tinil T Bewan               Medium Kanal
Sumber Or Gareng           Guyung
200                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kuluhan Bawah  Tej o
Asin Bawah                 Pancur
Cemer Bowaih               Jungke
200                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    4    8   12   16   20
9  -5                                                                -~~~~~~~~~  -$y:n:,:.    111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8'000                      Batur4ttno                                                                                          181000                                                    KIMNTAN'
,ijdlpy -ndore-,- or, -ptan- by tbc
World ank and it.,] ~Jima ea      .A  V
ililool   I 1 I' 15'                           1 1 I' 30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n#rlo,en



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIIT
Mapping on Prosida Systems
CREDIT 127 IND                                                                                                                                       IBRD 12636
GLAPAN SEDADI SUBPROJECT                                       CISEDANE SUBPROJECT    1W4 100'                                                                                                         APRIL :977
Irrigr on pro ecrt bouirtry                         Irrigooion project boundary        Roudory ot aerial p,otographic coverage                0            5            10            15
Mo ,cancls                                          Mo caralr                          (16,000)                                               'Kltlr i              -ERS
hococoary ~~~~~~acaFs ~~Secondapry corol,                                 HU-rdcry at aeii photographic. mapping oad             0                     00
coutour o appna g nprogreoos under carn IIOO  eND       _L
be-4kr,E Reri oid cr010;                                                                                 Rivers and dra's;                  Roads
.n 00:1 °K                                           F,'c, f e d reu,                                    Rice field arec                    Railway
.Beirary of aericphyntcgryphic
-0'0  :                                              / ~-:  :p  yr           covoeroe (1: 6,000 scale)
-a;                                                       Iir  otion rolr c- croy r ig t n )   bo                                 jndo
yrogroos                                           MDenr 0000011 I 6
K'  ---  Rood;~~~~~~~~~~~-0 
-.   .  Eq  t +1                        Sacenaary canols                     r             Secondcrv canuls                                                                                                                    4 4u~~~~~~~~~-4  LKAR-
- ~\ 'a r ; .   '(<.,   /)   :  \   y'  ^   .  .  f  ice frcid area ; ii Rlee f e d area w.kt'5fi.'D t7.t
1.  o     - '~~~~~~~~~~~~                  5        i
D'     '00ao I>      4         4        ja Is"   ,- tsro0;ncoK,to,d Itto  mcp/g                                                              u                                                                                                                                D;B
r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  FIR                                                  -     r                    :<_Sk .;d ;*jL 0 Tebnuvs-'   7145
loG8'2o 0, ,                                                         -          en           !,                     ,                         '                                                                                                                                                    I
"',2I,:t'
"co ,os,oc  XIIR, 1fl   IDE Lr.   105 JO Clreb8ctrcir 4an                                     SeconJvv carol_                                                                                                                     4-
,,Oio'o,iR                        c~~~~~~~Rve,an    i                                          ,,,-cn 
ice c~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~%Rc ildae                                                                                                -f     ri
ir3otundoy, rot,ct poirtoryah                      Brio'rc  y'jif   phre rsdcs-r0g i; 
heccrcary canalsIhncuoucryo     e, caast,o-   ,g                                    05
/                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~graph ce-rapping and coo door mapn
'o          ,                     i Railoops                                                                              C, oco                                      5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a w~
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
___ 0~~~~~~'~~ ~~             -0 i--------efOOOera                                                                                                                                                                                                    OMETP0"
t                                                                       MILE,          1
,~~~~~~                                                    7.     haodor,epo                             -                 nYc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0__  _  _--   
1  0          ~            ~            ~~~~0 nc 15                                                                                           '   s0~
-r'O0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 500                                                                                                                                                                                  I       N 
05'0                      RE iAN                                                                                       MIE                                                              J"oocA'vao                                                                                         io Ao
rot iv  icamc C no;,        iin.ao                        riiyc.                              105 ic                              ins on   cincooMi',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



NDONES A7
IRRIGAT ON PRO ECT 7V>
Mapping on Prosidio Systemns
CR6D T 220  INDIB)123
.                                       ~~~~~SADANG SUBPROJECT
0  90                                           lrr,09 999 9999999 ~~~~b-ud.ry
R    f9  d
~~~~~~~'99 ~ ~   ~          ~         ~         3.l~yI          i1p                   q
',,                                                                                                                                                   ...... -  V9 d,-999 I91 -.
9..'  I >     N'>                                           990'            . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19*9.999                                            /       9999999                                            3999f999999999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,it.tc
I  9<         3999.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~999 ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            9995999999 ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 1                             1     1     1 
"'I                                                                                                          //JUNG939'99SUBPROJECT39:99995
R       9i 33'993              .''.9  pfB99'y90s9d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
If -,W p9\                             9999999g96,9                                    7'h
"d,, L.- 1266 IND ~          ~          '3                                          7  1I                                                                                                                                              .                                                 99
CIUJUNG SUBPROJECT       I                                                                            '                         A7/R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEAL-CMA SBPOJC
rr5999 3999999. 99999999e  '>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  99                                F>                            2<                                               '6>                      >6                                                  9999.9~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi,,fi d-1
9, 9                                     3                                                                                         1'  '                                                                   999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 73 51
1                                                                           999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j9~~~~~~~ 'I'1.E                                                                .



113^000                                       113030'                                        114°00'                                               INDONESIA
0   ip      ~~20     30      4.0      50
10 '       KILOMETERS                                                                                             IRRIGATION PROJECT YIE
0            10  2M         0            30                                                                           Mapping on Prosida Systems
MILES
PEKALEN-SAMPEAN SUBPROJECT
-7°30'                                                                                                                                                      CREDIT 289 IND
- Boundaries of aerial photo-
graphic coverage
Pasurusn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boundaries of semi-controlled
suruan                                            mosaics
S-  Y                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boundaries at aerial photo-
graphic mapping in progress
~IU0T                                                under Loan 1100 IND
irolbolinggo ,/~t Stzn  LudronlON
r                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rice field areas
,,_ saks_n    :Roads
Railways
Rivers
BonJ  d o .  .     *                      /                    -   ----District boundaries
_8000'j7    ~~L    U    M    A    Jg    A     N     G                                    .       -                                             \80'
-8100'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
l'                 <,_                         ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B  O  N/ D: 0O  W  O   S  O 0
ToPon6rogo
MA5Jronsr.gs t r?;? ,2 t X A                                                                                                                      Ll
100 20       ANnl+er V   A- BAL                                                            \     \uM A
1130200I                                      1131301                                                                                        114030
SUATR                  1;2' KALIMANTAN            SULAWESi-83                          <;                                  .> r l                                                        8°0
-'f" Grcljagan. 
J   A V   A        MADURA                                                                                                                                                              7
o  100 200 300 KILOMETERS                BA        SUAW_
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~LOMBOK                                                                        1,00                                        11-0
o 100   2 0 0M IL ES      ,                16°             2o                                          11°0                                         11 3 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIII
Mapping on Prosida Systems
LOAN  1100 IND                                                                                                                              IBRD 12640
00. CAN AN    A  OUtAWLO,  OW2A  IA&AO                                                                                     1920                                                             11740                  APCI 1977~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRL 97
&AA  '\                                       roiqotion OrAICAI~~~~~~~~ bAnoryC2'B-id.ry of -Cr o phOtoraphy n prog, COO   ACd; I  o1000 N                                                             rrigCti- Projeci b-unory
i;d,y.-  phtg~h         -pp          R_3. f.>                           4.,          .
N= .,                                                                                                                       R ce >9' i __;:ud-;fE8cdblezO Cr =9                               Hoandory of Ge Al pnotogropnoCOp0 roj;hn; thbto oN.-s U POAGbresA S         Ra ways CCr0
Afi Vig *     0   4                                                                                           -  Bot;ro ry      n of aer al photogrophio -O O         Rivder Losn 100 ND
oaUCOOSO 013Cm -otrAl ed m       C 5\    l   I   ndC  L-AC 1268 IND                                                                               --         -A COON
:'                                 IonNors nH </4_ prog                                     r  aon 10S IRtl
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T
0108-00'                                                          lo-0 /nCjlnOI8C0p/o11 0N                                                                                                                                                            _011-
'0 ~      2    /  2
I~~~~~~~~~~               0~ ~ ~~~cil



IBRD 12641
SMTR             1E20 KALIMANTAN   116      SULAWESi )                                                MAY 1977 
SUMAT ERA'- 
-4-                                                Nortk. Sadong                         INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VI[f
Mapping on Prosida Systems
NORTH SADANG SUBPROJECT
J    A   V          MADURA                                               lOAN  1268 IND
0  100 200 300KILOMETERS                   BALI 'UMWA t                          -   -   Main canals
LOMBOKNwccnl
O    100   200 MILES   2.                                                                 New canals
119°30'-     Drains
To Cenrana                                            Z       Rivers
Rice field area
3'30'                                                                                    Roads                         3030
-\        Boundary of aerial photographic
coverage
Boundary of mosaic without contours
8  t    S~~ungin                            - =          )      
Lape
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~1
K ILOME TERS
I   r  ! [~~~~~~o2                                   4          6
MILES                                               To Roppong
119130'                                              TO Ujung Pandan~194



