CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1434 IND
Loan Agreement
(Eighth Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and
Electric Power;
(b)  "PROSIDA" means Proyek Irigasi IDA, an executive body
within DGWRD;
(c) "P2AT" means Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah, an executive
body within DGWRD;
(d) "Madiun Irrigation System" means an irrigation area
of about 140,000 hectares surrounding the City of Madiun in the
Province of East Java;


﻿-3-
(e) "Ciujung Irrigation Area" means an irrigation area
of about 24,300 ha in the Province of West Java;
(f) "SEDEKU Irrigation System" means Semarang-Demak-Kudus
Irrigation System;
(g) "tertiary network" means an irrigation and drainage
system consisting of tertiary and quartenary canals, drains
and associated structures each such network serving a unit of
about 100-200 hectares; and
(h) "IPEDA" means luran Pembangunan Daerah, contributions
for regional development collected from owners of land,
established and operating under Law No. ll/PRP/1959 of the
Borrower and under such regulations as may be passed from time to
time in accordance with said law.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agr,-.ment, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿- 5 -
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annui on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from tiLw to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering and
financial practices, as follows:
(i) PROSIDA shall carry out Parts A, C and D of the
Project; and
(ii) P2AT shall carry out Part B of the Project.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any restriction or limitation upon its
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted
expenditures estimated by PROSIDA and P2AT to be required for
their respective Parts of the Project during each quarter shall be
made available to PROSIDA and P2AT, respectively, not later than
thirty days after the first day of each such quarter.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the
preparation of detailed designs and the supervision of
construction under Parts A, B and C of the Project and in (ii)
carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ


﻿- 7 -
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1977 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of t.2 proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The accounts of PROSIDA and P2AT which are to be kept
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement,
shall be audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and the rep;rt of such audit by such
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.


﻿Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.06. Without restricting its obligations under
Section 4.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that
adequate credit and agricultural inputs (including fertilizers and
agricultural chemicals) are made available to farmers in all of
the areas rehabilitated or constructed under Parts A, B and
C of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA and P2AT
to be at all times adequately staffed with qualified and competent
personnel under the supervision of the General Manager of PROSIDA
and the General Manager of P2AT respectively.
(b) Before making any new appointment to the position of
General Manager of PROSIDA or of General Manager of P2AT, the
Borrower shall inform the Bank of the names, qualifications and
experience of the persons considered for such appointment and
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on the qualifications and experience of such persons.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, iLf for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provis.on cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals,
structures, inspection roads, equipment and other facilities
of the Borrower's irrigation systems constructed, extended or


﻿- 12 -
rehabilitated with the financial assistance of the Bank or the
Association to be adequately maintained and repaired, in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and public
utility policies and practices, and shall cause such action to be
taken as shall be reasonably required to ensure the economic use
of the water made available by such systems for agricultural
development and operations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure, at all
times, that adequate staff are employed and funds allocated and
made available, as and when required, for the proper operation
and maintenance of the irrigation systems referred to under said
paragraph (a). To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) by August 15
in each fiscal year or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
make available to the organization or department charged with
maintenance of any such system, an amount of liquid funds equal to
not less than one-half of the amount budgeted for the operation
and maintenance of such system in such fiscal year and shall make
the balance available in equal quarterly installments until all
budgeted amounts have been made available; and (ii) take appropriate
steps to progressively increase the number of qualified operation
and maintenance staff employed by the organizations and departments
charged with operation and maintenance of the said irrigation


﻿- 13 -
systems until adequate staff levels, established by the Borrower
in consultation with the Bank, have been attained by such
organizations and departmencs.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank: (i) by December 31 of each year, of the
proposed cost per hectare for operation and maintenance budgets
and staffing requirements for each such irrigation system; (ii)
by June 1 of each following year, of the approved budgets for each
such irrigation system; and (iii) by October 1 of each following
year, of the staffing provisions for each such irrigation system.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, through the IPEDA, establish and thereafter
maintain and collect, or cause to be established and thereafter
maintained and collected, charges on irrigable agricultural land,
or on the users of the land, serviced by the irrigation and
drainage systems rehabilitated or constructed under the Project,
at levels consistent with the capability of the beneficiaries to
pay said charges, to (i) cover the cost of sound operation and
maintenance necessary to provide irrigation and drainage for such
land, and (ii) recover over the useful life of the irrigation
system a reasonable portion of the capital expenditures
attributable to such system. To that end, operation and
maintenance costs and capital expenditures for facilities and


﻿- 14 -
services which are common also to other water uses shall be
apportioned among the various users in an equitable manner.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank once every two
years for its comments the IPEDA rates established and collected
for all classes of the Borrower's irrigable agricultural land.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than one
year after the completion of each groundwater pilot scheme
included in Part B of the Project, establish a water-user
association for each well included in such pilot scheme; (ii)
cause each such water-user association to establish and collect
starting not more than one year after such well starts operating,
from the beneficiaries of such well, fees in amounts which shall
be gradually increased during the first five years of well
operation in order to cover the cost of sound operation and
maintenance of such well.
(b) Not later than June 30, 1981, or such other date as
the Bank shall agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a
report on the implementation of Part B of the Project including
the Borrower's assessment of the beneficiaries' capability to
contribute to the replacement cost of such Part and its proposals
for collecting such contribution from the beneficiaries. On the
basis of such assessment, the Borrower shall cause such water-user
associations to establish and collect from the beneficiaries of the


﻿- 15 -
said Part B of the Project such charges as shall be agreed with
the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (i) before the start
of construction of any tertiary network included in Part A of
the Project, establish a water-user association to participate in
the construction of such tertiary network and to operate and
maintain such tertiary network after its completion; and (ii)
promptly from the completion of such tertiary network cause such
association to establish and collect from its members
contributions sufficient to cover the cost of sound operation and
maintenance of such tertiary network.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such action as shall be
necessary to provide adequate agricultural support services in
each of the irrigation systems included in Parts A, B and C of the
Project, including provision of agricultural extension services
and agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizers, agricultural
chemicals and agricultural credit) in order to encourage the
optimum use of irrigation water for agricultural production.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 6, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representatfve of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable addrEss:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) PROSIDA                 35,500,000       (
( 60%
(b) P2AT                       900,000       (
(2) Vehicles and
equipment:
(a) PROSIDA                  2,600,000
(b) P2AT                     2,400,000
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) locally                              95% of local
manufac-                             expenditures
tured                                (ex-factory)
(iii) imported                             65% of local
goods pro-                          expenditures
cured lo-
cally (ex-
cluding
vehicles)
(iv) vehicles                             40% of local
(locally                            expenditures
procured)


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Consulting                                     100%
services
(a) PROSIDA                  8,100,000
(b) P2AT                     1,900,000
(4) Overseas training               800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Mapping services              3,800,000        80%
(6) Unallocated                   7,000,000
TOTAL        63,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that (A)
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿- 22 -
of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account
of expenditures made before that date but after April 1, 1977, and
(B) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) (a) on account
of expenditures made before that date but after April 1, 1977; and
(ii) payments made for the construction of any tertiary network
unless the application for such withdrawal is accompanied by a
certificate of the iite engineer stating that the quaternary
canals in such network have been constructed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 23 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Madiun Irrigation System Improvements
The rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems
serving about 75,000 ha in the Madiun Irrigation System, as
follows:
(i) rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 216
headworks;
(ii) rehabilitation of about 440 km of primary and
secondary canals, including about 1,400 structures,
channel clearing, and lining where required;
(iii) improvement of tertiary works on about 30,000
ha;
(iv)  improvement of drainage systems;
(v) construction of operation and maintenance buildings
and of staff housing;
(vi) improvement of about 450 km of inspection and
access roads;
(vii)  improvement of about 338 km of telephone
communications lines for operaton and maintenance;
and
(viii) procurement of vehicles and equipment.


﻿- 25 -
Part B:   Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Project
Construction of pilot groundwater schemes for about 2,800 ha
at three locations (Balong, Caruban and Tanon) in the Madiun-Solo
area, as follows:
(i) drilling, casing and developing to depths of
100-150 m about 30 wells (19 in Balong and 11 in
Caruban), expected to yield 40-75 1/sec and command
55-110 ha each;
(ii) procurement and installation of 44 turbine pumps
with diesel primemovers, and construction of
suitable pumphouses for the wells;
(iii) rehabilitation of about 15 ki of inspection and
access roads and construction of 4 km of new roads;
(iv) construction on the Tanon pilot area of about 3 km
of tertiary and 15 km of quaternary canals and 3 km
of tertiary and 15 km of quaternary drains;
(v) procurement of vehicles and equipment; and
(vi) local in-service and overseas training of operation
and maintenance staff.
Part C:   Ciujung Drainage Improvements
Improvement of flood control, drainage and road networks on
about 5,700 ha of low-lying coastal land in the Ciujung Irrigation
Area, as follows:


﻿- 26 -
(i) rehabilitation and improvement of about 23 gated
control structures, 6 weirs, 21 box culverts, 91
pipe drains, and 6 check dikes, all appurtenant to
existing surface drainage systems;
(ii) rehabilitation of about 150 km of existing
secondary drains and construction of about 30 km of
secondary and 7 km of primary collector drains,
including raising or rehabilitation of flood
protection and road embankments;
(iii) dredging of 7 km of river channel coupled with the
reconstruction or raising of flood protection
embankments;
(iv) bituminous surfacing of 5 km of existing road,
reconstruction of five bridges and construction of
about 50 km of gravel-surfaced all weather roads
and 150 km of dirt roads along the drainage
embankments; and
(v) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
1.   Audio Visual Training Aids Program
(a) Provision of audio visual (AV) tape recorded
training programs on supervision of construction,
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems,
including training of counterpart AV staff;


﻿- 27 -
(b) procurement of AV equipment for implementing the
program; and
(c) construction of an AV training center, dormitory
for trainees and staff housing within the compound of
the Ministry of Public Works Regional Training and
Education Center in Surabaya.
2.   Cirebon and Rentang
Preparation of detailed design and construction drawings
for tertiary systems on about 155,000 ha, for which
construction assistance is provided in Loan 1100-IND.
3.   Mapping
Mapping within Bank-assisted PROSIDA projects and
the SEDEKU Irrigation System consisting of:
(a) production of aerial photography on a scale of
1:10,000 for about 380,000 ha;
(b) rectified photo mosaics on a scale of 1:5,000 for
about 450,000 ha; and
(c) contour mapping on a scale of 1:5,000 with contour
interval of 0.5 m for about 800,000 ha.
4.   Records Depository and Retrieval
and Text Processing Systems
(a) procurement and installation of a text processing
system, and of equipment for recording, storing, and


﻿- 28 -
retrieving documents on microfilm and reproduction of
stored material;
(b) construction of a climate controlled records
building within the compound of PROSIDA's headquarters
in Jakarta to house the above mentioned system; and
(c) technical assistance for system development and
training of staff in records management.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1982.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1982
through   January 1, 1997                    2,030,000
On July 1, 1997                                   2,100,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.45%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of vehicles, materials and equipment shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be carried out under contracts awarded in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank or by
force account. All such contracts which extend for a period of
more than one year shall include appropriate price escalation
clauses in accordance with the Borrower's existing regulations and
procedures. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree such civil
works, except those included in Part A (iii) and Part B (iv) of
the Project, shall be grouped in lots estimated to cost the
equivalent of $125,000 or more. Invitations to bid on such
contracts shall be issued, and bids received and processed, as
soon as tender documents are completed, and issuance and processing
shall not be delayed until approval by the Borrower of the project
implementation budget (DIP) of the executing agency.


﻿- 32 -
2.   The Borrower may procure items of equipment or vehicles
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 each without
resort to international competition, provided that (i) such items
of equipment and vehicles are procured on a basis of reasonable
and competitive procurement procedures; and (ii) the total cost
of items of equipment and vehicles procured pursuant to this
sub-paragraph does not exceed a maximum amount of the equivalent
of $100,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 33 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 34 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and to all contracts for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid


﻿- 35 -
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 36 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


