Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8626
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 1070-TA
MAY 8, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by redipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatIon.



CUURERCY LQOTVALENT
Current Units            -     Tanzania Shillings (TSh)
US$ 1.00 (1980)          -     TSh 8.30 (1980)
US$ 1.00 (1980)                SDR 0.755068 (1980)
USS 1.00 (Sept. 1989)          TSh 140.00 (Sept. 1989)
US$ 1.00 (Sept. 1989)   -      SDR 0.772908 (Sept. 1989)
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBRIVIATIONS
CPP      -      Coconut Pilot Project
DCA      -      Development Credit Agreement
EAT      -      East Africa Tall (coconut variety)
FAO/CP   -      FAO Cooperative Program
FRG      -      Federal Republic of Germany
GOT      -      Government of Tanzania
GTZ      -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IRHO     -      Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles Oleagineux
LD       -      Lethal Disease
MALD     -      Kinistry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
NCDP     -      National Coconut Development Program
PCR      -      Project Completion Report
VAT      -      West Africa Tall (coconut variety)
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 - June 30



7RO -KU LUUONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washgton. >D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
C0kv o OD.cttGCwdan
May 8, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project C ampletion Report on Tanzania Coconut
Pilot Prolect (Credit 1070-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Coconut Pilot Project (Credit
1070-TA)" prepared by the FAO/CP Investment Center and the Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restridcd distdbution and may be used by recipieats only In the pefance
of their offlcil dutie Its contents may not otherwise be dickeed without World lBank auiati.



FOR OMCML USE ONLY
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT (IDA CREDIT 1070-TA)
Table of Contents
Pane No.
PREFAC  ....... *.*.........  **.........        ..................... 
EVALUATION SUNMORY ...            ..........  **.........    1
PART I    -  PROJECT REVIEW FROK BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .          ......................... ..........   5
Background ..........*................ *..... ...   S
Project Objectives & Description ......................   6
Project Design and Organization .......................   7
Project Implementation ... .............................    8
Project Results ...................................   9
Project Sustainability ..... ...........................  11
Baak Performance ................ ......................  12
Consulting Services .......................          ..............  12
Project Docuentation and Data ........................  12
PART II   -  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Design and Organization .......................  14
Project Performance  .................................  14
Project Impact and Sustainability .....................  1S
Bank Performance ..........................*   ...........   ..  17
The Consulting Services .. .........        ....................  17
The Performance of Borrower .....................          ....  17
Lessons to be Learnt .......          ...........................  18
Adequacy and Accuracy of Information In Part III ......  18
PART III  -  TABLES - STATISTICAL INPORMATION
1  -  Related Bank Loans andlor Credits .............        ..  19
2  -  Project Timetable  .......4    ......................  20
3  -  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ...  21
4  -  Project Implementation ..........................  22
5  -  Project Costs/Project Financing ...            ..............  23
6  -  Project Results .................................  25
7  -  Compliance with Credit Conditions ..            .............  26
8  -  Use of Bank Resources .           ..........................  27
9  -  Training Program ................................  28
10  -  Short-Term Consultancies .....          ...................  29
MAP - IBRD 114814R2 - TANZANIA COCONUT PILOT PROJECT (1980)
This document has a restricted distributiocn and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
UNITED REJLIC OF TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PIOJECT (ID CREDIT 1070-TA)
PROJECT COmPLETIOn REPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Coconut
Pilot Project in the United Republic of Tanzania, for which Credit 1070-TA
in the amount of SDR 5.2 million was approved on October 24, 1980. The
credit was closed on March 31, 1989, 3 years behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on September 19, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of Southern Africa Department (Preface and Evaluation Summary),
the FAO/CP Investment Center (Part I and IIT), and the Borrower (who
prepared Part II after receiving Parts I and III). The German Agency for
Technical Cooperation (GTZ), on behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany,
was also involved during the preparation of Parts I and III.
Preparation of this PCR was started in January 1989 and is based
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; project progress
reports; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.



PROJDCT COMPLETiOnw RPORT
UNITED U P8UILC OF TANZANIA
COCONT _PLO  PROJECT (IDA CREDIT 1070-TA)
EVALUATION SUMQERY
Orl in
1.   The Coconut Pilot Project was the 20th Bank/IDA supported
agricultural development project in Tanzania, with a credit amount of
SDR5.2 million for research and development. The Bank's development
strategy in the agricultural sector at the time was to achieve a more
balanced regional growth and more equitable income distribution
through supporting self sufficiency in food crops and export crops.
The continuing decline in copra production, turning Tanzania into a
vegetable oil importing instead of exporting country and the
increasing demand for fresh coconuts caused the Government to place
greater emphasis on coconut development. At the time of
villagization (Ujamaa) little replanting was done, while the
occurrence of Lethal Disease (LD) and pests even further reduced the
production of generally poorly managed coconut groves (Part I, para
3).
2.   With technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany,
through the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), a US$4.0
million pilot phase of a National Coconut Development Program (NCDP)
was launched in April 1979 in order to study a) the production
constraints caused by diseases and pests, b) examine the potential of
introducing new planting materials from abroad and c) to strengthen
the coconut research and extension services through the specialist
training of Tanzanian staff. The FRG supported program would also
assist in the establishment of a seed multiplication unit and the
formulation of a coconut development master plan (Part I, para 4).
3.   To expand NCDP's activities, IDA together with GOT and FRG designed a
complementary Coconut Pilot Project (CPP), aiming over a five-year
period to help to develop a strong base for the future rehabilitation
of the Tanzanian coconut industry (Part I, para 5). The CPP was
approved in October 1980.
Obiectives
4.   The main objectives of the CPP were to assist NCDP in the formulation
of a technical package for improved production of coconuts, provide
seed farms for the production of hybrid seed nuts, and the training
of local staff for the planning and implementation of future large-
scale coconut projects. To achieve the objectives, maximum
cooperation and coordination of activities was ensured by having GTZ
providing overall project management for both the NCDP and CPP under
the Ministry of Agriculture (Part I, para 6).



-2-
Imnlemtation Uxueriene
5.   Overall project implementation was successful, in particular in
setting up the hybrid seed farms in Mafia and Zanzibar (Part I, para
9). After a hesitant start the proposed components were executed
more or less in time with the exception of construction works, which
only reached 75Z of the project target by March 31, 1989, the
extended project closing date, due to initial shortages and price
increases of materials, and irregular GOT funding to finance local
costs (Part I, para 11). In various instances GTZ had to bail out
the project with its own funds (Part II, para 6.2). To reduce
overhead costs and to overcome shortages of local counterpart staff,
GTZ made good use of German volunteers in farm management and post-
graduates in research.
6.   Research and training activities were undertaken as planned, but in
hindsight the planning of research activities could have been more
discipline specific as for the NCDP program, rather than placing the
emphasis on general crop husbandry (maintenance and rehabilitation)
and demonstration trials which were in general poorly designad and
maintained and consequently did not provide sufficient reliable data
in the relatively short period of the project (Part I1, para 2.2).
As for the training under CPP, more long term training courses abroad
for coconut specialists and project management could have been
included (Part II, para 2.3). On the other hand PRG provided
extensive long term training programs for local NCDP staff (Part I,
para 20).
7.   Not sufficient coconut specific, agro technical know-how was provided
in the preparation and early implementation of the project which was
later partly rectified by a greater involvement of agricultural
specialists in supervision missions (Part I, para 27). The earlier
indicated deficiencies in the overall planning and design of the CPP
part of research and training activities can only be explained by an
under estimation of the time required to properly implement research
and development projects, in particular for long term treecrops, like
coconut. On the other hand valuable experience has been gained in
this pilot project to better understand Tanzania's research needs in
coconut development, as proposed under the new Cashew and Coconut
Treecrops Project.
8.   Actual project costs amounted to US$8.1 million, compared to US$6.8
million, estimated at appraisal (Part II1, table 5). The exchange
rate at the time of appraisal was TSh 8.3 to the US$ and had risen to
TSh 140.0 at the end of the extended implementation period of eight
years.
Results
9.   Although project implementation proved to be successful in managerial
and physical terms, the expected research results were disappointing.
The imported PB 121 hybrid and locally produced coconut hybrids with
imported polle!*n from the West Africa Tall coconut variety, did not
show any particular tolerance to the Tanzania specific Lethal Disease



-3-
(LD) (Part I, para 13) or tolerance to drought conditions. However,
the imported hybrids and parental materials were in the first place
selected for increased nut yields, which is clearly shown in those
areas where neither the LD nor drought is a serious problem. On the
other hand, there are encouraging results on the Mainland that some
tolerance to LD and drought can be found in sub-populations of the
local indigenous East African Tall (EAT) palms (Part I, pars 13; Part
II, paras 3.1, 3.2).
10. A relevant coconut specific research program and 2 hybrid seed
gardens have been developed which were not there before (Part II,
para 3.5).
11. Local nurseries have shown that there is an increasing demand for
hybrid seedlings and that farmers are willing to pay high prices for
quality seedlings. A problem noticed at the nursery level is the
high incidence (more than 51) of inbred seedlings, which is the
result of poor and not timely emasculation of the male inflorescences
at the two hybrid seed farms (Part I, para 19; Part II, para 3.5).
12. Although not statistically designed, a number of crop husbandry
trials indicated economic benefits of clean weeding and intercropping
of food crops in existing coconut groves; in particular if
fertilizer is applied to the food crops instead of the palms.
(Technical Annex)
13. Other problem areas requiring continued research are the biological
control of the Coreid bug (Pseudotheraotus waYi) and the Rhinoceros
beetle (Oryctes monoceros c. v), two of the main coconut pests in
Tanzania (Part I, paras 14, 17).
Sustainability
14. Project benefits can only be achieved in the medium and long term, by
continuing the present long term research activities and enhancing
some of them (see Recosmendations in Technical Annex) in order to
obtain reliable results on which to base a larger scale coconut
development program. Given the present lack of technical expertise
and financial resources in Tanzania, the research can only be
sustained if adequate financial and technical support remain
available in the near future and this has been provided in the Cashew
and Coconut Treecrops Project (Part I, para 23)
15. The seed farms can only be sustained when operated on a (semi)
commercial basis.
Findints and Lessons Learned
16. Research projects should be designed with a long term view; even more
so when treecrops are involved (Part 3, paras 7, 12).
17. Adequate technical inputs from international treecrops research and
production specialists should be provided right from the preparation
stage of the project and all through the implementation (Part I, para
27; Part II, para 2.2). GTZ management would in that case have been



-4-
more confident in making optimal use of all available consultancy
funds, instead of relying heavily on SRH0 (Institut de Recherches
pour lea Huileb Oleagineuz), who provided the PB 121 hybrid seednuts,
WAT's pollen and most of the technical advice.
18.  The Vest Africa Tall (VAT) father palm is not providing specific LD
(Tanzania) and drought tolerances in the imported PB 121 (Malaysia
Yellow Dwarf x VAT) and locally produced hybrids. These tolerances
have now to be found in the local, indigenous East Africa Tall (EAT)
sub-populations and should receive the main focus in research and in
the hybridization program for the Mainland, together with intensive
selection for tolerances and compatibility In dwarf mother palms from
around the world (Part 1, para 22).
19. Although GTZ is gradually handing over all managerial activities to
local NCDP stt.ff, managerial staff training should continue and be
expanded (Part 1, para 25). Coconut research specialist training
will continue to be financed by PRG.



- 5 -
IANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Project Identitv
Project Name:           Coconut Pilot Project
Credit Number:          1070-TA
RVP Unit:               Africa
Country:                United Republic of Tanzania
Sector:                 Agriculture
Rackkgrund
1        Tanzania is primarily an agricultural country, with  about  80X  of
its   population   living  in  the  rural  areas,  the  agricultural  sector
contributing      about 502 of GOP and accounting for more than 75X of  total
exports. With the exception of a small area of private estates and
parastatal operations, the majority of producers are smallholders with an
average holding about 1.2 ha. Agriculture performance during the 1970s was
disappointing, real agricultural GOP grew at a pace well below the
population growth rate (over 3X p.a.), leading to an increasing dependance
on food imports such as maize, rice, wheat and edible oils. During the same
period agricultural exports consisting mainly of coffee, cotton, sisal and
cashewnuts declined.
2        The coconut industry is very important in the  coastal  regions  of
Tanzania. Coconuts account for about 40% of the vegetable oils and fat
consumed in the country. Fresh nuts  are  used  as  drink-nuts  or  for  the
extraction of home produced oil used for cooking; dried or fire-cured
coconuts (copra) are industrially processed for extraction of vegetable oil;
the  residual  copra  cake  is  used  as  animal  feed; and the coconut tree
provides roofing and construction material, mats and fuel. Coconuts are
grown over an area of about 240,000 ha, predominantly by smallholders.
Coconut groves are intercropped with a range of annual and perennial crops
(cassava, maize, citrus, etc.), they are often poorly managed and yields are
generally low. Estimates suggest an annual average yield of less than 30
nuts per palm, while well managed hybrid trees on suitable soil can produce
more than     double (65 nuts/year).



-6-
3        Before  1980  very  little  attention  was  paid to promote coconut
production through public agricultural services. Apart from some limited
research in the Chambezi and Tanga regions during the 1970s, practically no
technological package for improved husbandry was developed and no coconut
extension services existed. There were no reliable sources of good s.-ed nuts
for distribution of seedlings to farmers. Moreover, in some regions (Tanga,
Pangani and Bagamoyo) an estimated 25% of palms were affected by Lethal
Disease (LO) and major insect pests were causing considerable damage to
palms. Few replantings were taking place and since almost three quarters of
Tanzania's coconut palms were over 50 years old, coconut production was
declining steadily.
4        lo  initiate  the  rehabilitation. of  the  coconut  industry,  the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD) with the assistance
of  the  Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) established in 1979, the National
Coconut  Development  program        (NCOP).  The  program        was  initially
intended to (i) develop pest and disease control measures; (ii) examine the
potential for introducing improved varieties and production of quality
seednuts and disease and drought tolerant planting materials; (iii) train
Tanzanian staff in husbandry and extension techniques; and (iv) assist the
GOT in the preparption of a Coconut Master Plan. The programmeme was
implemented by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ).
Proieet Obiectives and Description
5        To expand NCDP activities a Coconut Pilot Project was  designed  in
1980, aiming, over a five-year period, to help to develop a strong base for
the future rehabilitation of the coconut industey in Tanzania. More
specifically, the project was to assist in the formulation of a technical
package for improved production of coconuts, provide seed gardens for
production of hybrid seed nuts, and the training of local staff for the
planning and implementation of future large-scale coconut projects. The
project, totalling US$8.5 million, included:
a) Varietal trials. To select the most promising variety of coconut
for each of the four regions with different ecological conditions
(three sites in mainland Tanzania and one site on Zanzibar), a set
of trials covering a total of about 200 ha was proposed. It would
consist of: (i) a comparative study of the performance of a number
of varieties (up to 30); (ii) an evaluation of the hybrid PB121;
and (iii) the determination of nutrient requirements of PB121. Seed
nuts were to be imported, nurseries established and seedlings would
be   distributed   to  selected  farmers  for  demonstration.  This
program    was  later  expanded  to  include  fertilizer,  spacing,
weeding and intercropping trials, so thereafter was more aptly
renamed as agronomic trials.
b) Imoroved maintenance and rehabilitation trials. To test new or
improved methods and techniques of maintenance and rehabilitation
and to adapt them for local conditions. a set of trials were to be
conducted   at   the   Chambezi  station.  Zegereni  Farm  and  GOT
plantations in Zanzibar. On a total of about 1,000 ha, the proposed
trials examined: (i) fertilization rates; (ii) covers and weed
control; (iii) replanting thinning and density; (iv) intercropping;
(v) nursery techniques and (vi) disease and pest control methods.
c) Seed garden. To develop a local source of improved, high yielding
planting material in Tanzania, a 100 ha seed garden was to be



established on Mafia island. I/ A mother farm of 80 ha was to be
planted with selected dwarf palms using imported seed nuts, as well
as 20 ha of tall varieties to serve as male parents.
d) Soil  and  hvdrological  surveys.  To  assist  in  the selection of
varietal trial sites (200 ha) and the seed garden site (100 ha), as
well as to prepare a coconut land suitability ma-, soil and
hydrological surveys were proposed to be undertaken with the
assistance of consultants.
e) Technical assistance. To strengthen MAtOs capacity to implement
the project an experienced coconut agronomist and a plantation
manager were to be recruited for the full project period. They were
to be responsible for planning and implementing the trials and for
on-the-job training of Tanzanian staff.
f) Training. To create a core of local staff with experience and
knowledge  of  coconut  rehabilitation,   practical   training   of
Tanzanian staff in coconut husbandry, replanting and rehabilitation
methods and plantation management in coconut growing countries was
proposed.
g) Short-term consultants and laboratory services. To provide guidance
or a second opinion on specific, particularly technical, aspects,
short-tern.a   consultancies   were   included.  Overseas  laboratory
services for foliar analysis would also be made available.
h) Consultants for manaaement and feasibility studies for oh_'e 11.
Funds were provided to engage consultants for project management
and implementation and to undertake the feasibility studies for the
next phase of coconut development.
6        To ensure maximum cooperation and coordination of activities of the
two complementery projects, i.e. FRG and IDA funded projects, GTZ was
requested by GOT, under a special agreerent, to undertake the  execution  of
the proposed Coconut Pilot Project. The GTZ Project Manager had to report
directly to the Director, Crop Production, MALD.
Project Deaian and Organization
7        The project was the  first  consistent  and  concerted  attempt  to
develop a strong technical basis for coconut development in Tanzania. As
such it included a well conceived research program,   complementary  to  the
FRG funded activities, as well as an appropriate plan for -seed nut and
planting material production and a sizeable technical assistance and
training   component.   However,  project  objectives  were  only  partially
achieved, since it became evident that the five-year period for project
completion fixed by the Development CreditAgreement (DCA) . later extended
to eight years, was not sufficient to yield any significant results. In adl,
case, and even under the most fAvourable circumstances. a researchi project
based on a slow-maturing tree crop, and starting virtually from scratch.
could   not   be  expected  to  yield  conclusive  results  for  large-scale
development of the industry before 10 to 15 years. This short-term
.1/   This seed garden was expected to supplement the 50 ha unit proposed
under the FRG funded program.



conception of the project certainly influenced the scale and design of some
project activities (para. 10).
8        The project was in general  well  designed  and  prepared.  Project
organization,   and  particularly  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  the
implementing agency were well established. It can be concluded that the
outstanding   performoance   of   the  project,  compared  to  other  project
experiences in Tanzania, was due to continuous Government support. through
appropriate budget and staff allocations, the committment of foreign and
local staff to project achievements and the good performance of the
imoleraenting and managing agency..
Proiset Iantmantatln
9        Overall  project implementation was successful. Proposed components
were executed more or less on time, with a few exceptions for construction
works (para. 11), and research and training activities were undertaken as
planned. A number of minor changes had to be introduced during project
implementation:
a) since the area of land suitable for trials and for the seed garden
(',fia) was less than expected at appraisal, an additional small
area (Morogoro) was included in the projec, area, and part (18 ha)
of the seed garden planned in Mafia had to be completed in the FRG
funded unit ir Zanzibar;
b) agronomic trials, not planned at appraisal, were implemented
together with varietal trials. Although they were most desirable,
superimposition with other trials within the already scarce land
available led to doubtful results (para. 14 to 16);
c) three new positions for internationally recruited experts were
created, one for a workshop manager, one for a seed production
manager and another one for a farm manager; the last two positions,
located in Mafia, were never fulfilled;
d) schedule I and It of the OCA were too restrictive and did not
reflect all provisions set at appraisal, for instance, they did not
include farm tools, barbed wire, office equipment, etc. for trials;,
- vehicles, tractors and related attachments for the seed garden;
imported pollen and seed nuts for seed garden; agricultural inputs
other than fertilizers. Omissions had to be corrected, case by
case.
10       Some flaws in the'set-up and management of trials have nevertheless
impaired the collection of useful results (para. 13 to 16). Problems were
detected in the following cases:
i) plots for variety trials are often too small and in some cases are
further complicated with management trials. Maintenance practices
are not adequate and chemical control of Osaudatheraotut waXi has
been seriously neglected. Therefore statistically significant
results are meagre. For instance, all 3 trials in Chambezi are
completel;, useless because 30X of palms died from LO and the
remaining trees are badly affected by drought and pests;
ii) the layout adopted for the fertilizer trials is too complicated and
not appropriate for long-term experiments; also the plot sizes are
too small and the number of guardrows insufficient. Folior analysis



-9-
was discontinued in 1987, so little valuable data are available;
iii) management and rehabilitation trials are not adequately maintained
and, as for all other experiments, trials, plots and palms are not
correctly identified. It appears that there is little concern on
long-term  effects  of  some  practices.  such  as  the   lack   of
fertilization of palms, disk-harrowing in interlines and continuous
cover cropping. In some cases, results of experiments done in other
countries are not fully exploited. Drought, which is a major
constraint in Tanzania, is not satisfactorily treated (by mulching,
elim.ination of graminae, auxiliary irrigation, etc.);
iv) nursery methods employed, relying on "one-stage0 germination beds
are inadequate.Only  selected  seedlings,   raised  in  'two-stage'
nurseries, using polybags, should be planted in all trials;
v) pest control recommendations are not systematically applied in all
trials and in the seed gardens.
11       The   only  project activity  for  whiLh  implementation  has  been
seriously delayed concerns the construction of farm buildings, laboratories,
field offices and staff houses in Mafia, Mkuranga, Maramba and Zanzibar.
Works were initiated in 1985 but construction has been  concluded  at  about
75% of project targets, due initially la shortages of materials and later to
price increases. GOT budgeted funds, w'ich had to finance local costs,
remain insufficient. Since these facilities are still urgently required to
enhance project activities, their completion should be a condition for
further financing.
12       A  lesson  learnt  from  this experience is that research projects,
especially on tree crops, should be conceived from the beginning as
requiring lonn.-term program    which will yield results over 10 to 30 years.
Therefore care should be taken to: (i) allocate sizeable trial sites on the
best   soils;  (ii)  layout  perfect  and  manageable  trials;  (iii)  allow
additional areas and plantings for unanticipated factors to be studied or
for sudden losses of trees; and, (iv) ensure that a well-defined set of
procedures (from the selection of sites to maintenance standards) will be
rigourously followed. In addition, provisions should be taken to ensure that
the maximum knowledge from past international research is exploited, as well
as   have  a  second-opinion  and  guidance  from  subject  matter  research
specialists during the planning of trials and the preparation of procedures.
Project Results
13       Although project implementation proved to be successful in physical
terms   compared   to   SAR   estimates,  the  research  results  are  still
disappointing. the coconut hybrids tested appear not to have any particular
resistance  to the Lethal Disease (LO) which is destroying Tanzanian coconut
palms at a rate of 2% per year. After 5 to 8 years. about 60% of the  hybrld
palms in the resistance trials in Kifumangao were lost due to LD. Sot"e
encouraging results in Pongwe and Tanga. raise the hope that some resistance
to  LD   could be found in a sub-population of local East African Tall palms
(EAT). However, research on this topic will take much longer before it
yields significant results. Given the characteristics of this disease and
its similarity with other letal diseases affecting Central America and West
Africa, participation by Tanzania in a cooperative research network with the
main international specialists in the field would seem most desiraole ta
enhance the local research program.



- 10 -
14       Results  of  variety  trials are not conclusive. Although they show
that hybrids are more precocious than talls, there is no significant
difference between various hybrids.and hybrids did not perform better than
East African Tall populations in drought-prone areas. Despite their early
yielding, productivity of hybrids is seriously jeopardized by pest attacks,
particularly Pseudgthorantus wavi.
15       Fertilizer trials provided some  preliminary  results  and  general
recommendations were drawn upon. Because of flaws in the layout of trials
(para. 10), it appears that it will be difficult to obtain further results
from the existing trials unless they are seriously revised. Additional long-
term trials seem necessary to draw useful conclusions and to perfect
recommendations.
16       Up to now no significant results of spacing and density trials have
been brought to light. Intercropping, weed control and mulching showed good
results during the first years of treatment,which confirm early research
results in other countries. However, the possibly negative effect of
intercropping in the long term has not been assessed yet. Demonstration
plots, scattered in the field, without proper surveillance and in general
badly  managed, have produced very few results. Rehabilitation of old palms,
promoted by the extension unit, has not  generated  the  anticipated  farmer
response,  since it appears that intercropping is already done to the extent
that the available labour force can handle it; furthermore,returns to labour
in neglected old stands are considered satisfactory by farmers.
17       Biological  control  of Rhinoceros Beetle  Or.i±tes monoaeros oliv.)
through virus release has been proved not suitable  and  at  present  it  is
recommended to hook the plague manually, which is easy in small areas but
very constraining in large plantations. Biological control research on
Coreid Bug (Plsudotherantus wavi)- which was recognized as a major threat
only in 1984, is on-going with promising results. Establishment of a natural
enemy, the ant gggllla lonainoda I Lr. gave impressive control capacity.
However, it will-still require several years of research before inducing
practical results.
18       The  major  project  achievement  constitutes  the well-planned and
well-implemented seed farms. The 86 ha seedfarm at Mafia (63 ha dwarfs and
23 ha talls) financed under the IDA project and the 79 ha seedfarm at
Zanzibar (56 ha dwarfs and 23 ha talls) funded by a FRG grant are a real
success. Together they can produce over 1 million seed nuts per year, which
is equivalent to about 4,000 ha planted per year. Presently production is
very irregular through the year, depending on climatic conditions (very dry
seasons have impaired production in recent years) and high variations are
also recorded from year to year, which is a characteristic of dwarf palm
populations. Estimated production during 1988 was around 500 thousand seed
nuts, half the SAR's target, due principally to severe pest atacks in mother
palms (Pseudotheraotus XiLU and nutrient deficiences combined with drought
problems affecting yellow dwarfs in Selem.
19       Both  seed  farms  now produce   suffIclent ainouiis of  u'.^' a. *t.
further imports unnecessary. Emasculation of dwarfs is correctly cC'nductec.
but the quality of the work heavily depends on incentives paid to
emasculators. The present rate of inbreds (8 to 25%, against an acceotac'e
5%) shows that male inflorescences are still not properly castrated ap'
buried, particularly in Selem. Improvements in the  operations  and  i n -e
maintenance  of  the  seed  farms  are still required, in order to reach :e
volume and quality of production planned in SAR (1 million seed nuts at yea,
8).   Although  production  capacity  is  presently  in  excess  of  dema'o.
difficulties with transportation to the mainland and increased costs o0



- 11 -
transport suggest the necessity of additional seed farms in the mainland,
close to the main planting areas.
20       The project's impact on human resource development  is  also  quite
impressive. An extensive training programme for NCDP local staff has been
implemented from 1979. During this period, about 7 manlyears of PhD courses,
25 years of MSc and 12 years of BSc/Diploma studies, in addition to some 300
man/weeks of short courses/study tours have been financed by a number of
sponsors. Out of these some 15 NCDP staff received training from the IDA-
funded Pilot Project. Most of them went abroad for short term practical
courses and training visits (Table 9). Given the low salaries of civil
servants in Tanzania it appears that training abroad represents a very
important. incentive to work with NCOP as.a means for further promotion and
for savings. 1/ However, unless subsequent career prospects and compensation
are secured in the future, it will be very difficult to retain the well-
trained and experienced staff provided by the project.
21       Neither financial  nor  economic  rates  of  return  estimates  are
applicable to this mainly research project. Its impact on sectoral growth
and policies are nevertheless largely associated with the positive dialogue
initiated with GOT and GTZ about pricing and marketing issues in the coconut
industry and, also, with the growing interest in new plantings originated
through extension activities and better incentives to coconut growers. Still
some efforts have to be done in order to liberalize the price of copra and
the trade of nuts in Zanzibar, as well as to settle cost-covering prices for
seed nuts and seedlings produced by NCDP.
22       It is still too  early  to  draw  conclusions  on  the  results  of
research, nonetheless it appears that a cautious approach concerning hybrid
promotion would be recommendable, until risks associated with LD, drought
and maintenance practices are fully evaluated. Meanwhile more emphasis on
EAT selection would be advisable. The selection of sites for future research
-activities is also a subject of concern, since Chambezi appears not to be
the most suitable choice.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
23       Since project benefits are to be sought in the medium to long term,
project sustainability is of vital importance. Present research activities
should be properly continued and some of them enhanced
in order to obtain reliable results on which to base a
large-scale coconut development program.   Given the  present  endowment  of
technical expertise and financial resources in Tanzania, the project would
certainly required continued financial and technical support.
24       There are some risk factors which could affect the project  outcome
in the future. Since 1989, project management has been passed-on from GTZ to
national managers. Although this measure appears sound in the perspective of
the project consolidation, it could make NCOP more vulnerable to pressures
from Government officials for a more liberal use of project facilities.
equipment and resources. It could also complicate the special conditions fo-
purchase and bidding which the project has enjoyed up to now (i.e. if
1/   Currently NCDP has the same salary structure as other parastatals, but
in addition it has the resources for paying all authorized allowances
(transport, lunch, overtime, etc.) which can total the equivalent of
50% of the salaries.



- 12 -
have to pass in the future through local adminitrative procedures). It has
to be noted that during the early stages of the project, theft and misuse of
project property was indicated as a major problem. Also, insufficient or
untimely local funds contribution were sometimes covered by GTZ operating
costs, reducing the risk of interruption of activities. Provision of
sufficient local funds could become an increasing threat for project
operations. Therefore, measures should be taken to ensure that the new
management will have the required financial and political support to execute
project activities with due efficiency and to maintain discipline.
25       A  core of well-trained and experienced local staff is being formed
in NCOP. There are risks that some of thembe tempted to look for better
remunerated jobs, in the private sector (if it is going to grow, as
expected) or abroad. To ensure continuity in research activities, it would
be recommended to sustain staff incentives and to continue the training
program.    Activities in remote  areas,  with  difficult  access  and  bad
accomodation facilities, will be hard to maintain unless appropriate
facilities are promptly completed and equipped.
26       There are worrying symptoms in the performance of some mother palms
(yellow dwarfs) at Selem and Kilombero seed farms (see Technical Annex). It
is recommended to closely monitor these palms to avoid further problems with
seed nut production.
Bank Performance
27       Bank    supervision  missions  were  fielded on a regular basis and
provided valuable support in solving implementation and procedural problems
and highlighting policy issues. They were less effective in monitoring
technical issues, particularly during the early stages of the project (some
missions comprised only agro-economist). A lesson to be learnt from this
experience for future Bank-financed research-type projects is that during
the initial activities (selection of sites, layout of trials, preparation of
procedures, etc.) a solid support from specialized research agronomist has
to be sought, in order to set up correctly designed experiment trials that
will yield useful results during a long period of time.
Cnnsulting Servicas
28       GTZ, under a special agreement with GOT, was in charge  of  project
management. Its performance was outstanding, given the difficult operating
conditions in Tanzania. Four experts were recruited under the IDA credit.
All of them were competent and highly committed to the project. Consultants
employed for soil and hydrological surveys and to second-phase feasibility
study and other specific technical matters, performed satisfactorily. Very
few consultancies of coconut specialists were utilized, although the project
included provisions for specific technical matters and second-opinion
assistance.
Pro ject Documentation and Data
29       The project SAR was very detailed and provided a good framework for
implementation. However, the required flexibility for such a project was not
appropriately reflected in the  DCA,                                   which had
to be amended several times during project execution, in order to adapt it
to small and sometimes trivial changes in the project features (para. 9).



- 13 -
30       Technical and financial data for the preparation of the PCR were in
general available, however, there were some difficulties to differentiate
accounts corresponding to separate components financed from different
sources. It would be very useful, if at the earliest stage of project
implementation, a clear account system was agreed upon with a Bank
supervision  mission,  taking  also  into   consideration   the   particular
requirements of the PCR exercise.



- 14 -
PART It
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.        The decision to start with a pilot project was appropriate in
view of the lack of technical packages and trained extension staff for
coconut production. The project design had balanced and complementary
project components each of which, if well implemented, would have ensured
the positive project achievements and project sustainability. The staff
appraisal report was well-designed and project objectives were well-
tailored to project outputs and inputs. Nevertheless, the life of the
project (five years) was too short for a treecrops research project to
realize tangible results upon which to base technical and management
recommendations for subsequent coconut programs. The extension of the
project for three years was a good decision to offset some of the
constraints imposed by the originally planned short life of the project.
However, the project design was flexible enough to allow adjustments
necessary during project implementation. This flexibility however, was at
first constrained by the restrictive nature of the Credit Development
Agreement (CDA) which had to be amended several times in order to
facilitate project implementation.
2.        The semi-autonomous organization structure adopted for the
project and the selection of the Management Agency (GTZ) was appropriate to
facilitate quick decisions pertaining to the management of the project.
Although the project management was to report to the Commissioner for
Agriculture, the latter had little to do in the day-to-day management of
the project. The loose relationship of project management with MALD
headquarters gave the project management flexibility and therefore
authority to manage and implement the project quite independently from
headquarters. Suffice it to say that the nature and scope of the project
required this type of project administration and the selection of an
experienced bilateral agency like GTZ was the right move to facilitate the
coordination of the projects in the NCDP, that is, the IDA and FRG funded
projects.
PROJECT PERFORMANCE
3.        The overall project implementation was relatively better than
that of most projects in the country. The various trials were started as
planned and in some cases increased. Seed farms were initiated and
established both on the mainland, in Zanzibar and in Mafia (See Part I).
An attempt was also made to implement other aspects of the project such as
training and construction of buildings, laboratories, staff houses and
field offices. However the construction works were not completed (751
completion) in terms of numbers of originally planned facilities.
4.        Despite the seemingly successful implementation of the project,
an in-depth review of project performance reveals the ineffectiveness of



- 15 -
the project assisted research program to generate technical packages and
recovmendations for the second phase. The planning and management of the
various trials lacked professionalism and some trials, particularly the
demonstration plots for the spacing and density trials, were not closely
monitored. Part I of the report correctly points out lack of proper
selection of trials, layout and inability to take a long-term view in the
design of the trials (Part I, pages 4-6).
5.        The achievements of the project in respect to human resource
development seem to have been exaggerated by Part I of the PCR.  While
there is no doubt that the project made a significant attempt to train its
staff, there does not appear to have been available a comprehensive program
for training and staff development with a view towards the long-term staff
requirements of the project. The long-term training was given less
emphasis than short courses. The short courses were also inadequate and
relatively ineffective in view of their short duration (most were 3 weeks).
6.        The performance of construction works initially was
disappointing but showed improvement later. The delays in the start-up of
construction works can be explained mainly bys
i) serious delays at the Treasury on decision-making regarding
procedures of importation of raw materials for the buildings:
ii) lack of -riority emphasis placed by project management on these
project aspects; and
iii) the ineffectiveness of the contractor - his subcontractor has
proved to be slow and inefficient. The lack of local funds
therefore was not an issue in the building construction.
Whenever more funds were needed for the construction, the GOT
provided additional funds.
7.        The project disbursements (Part III, Table 3) appear to have
been slow throughout the first five years of the project. Paxt I of the
report does not give reasons for this. However, delays in the start-up of
the project, delays in vehicle procurement, and implementing construction
works -nd training may explain the trend in disbursement before the project
was extended. However, once the project was extended, disbursements flowed
smoothly.
PROJECT rMPACT hND SUS?AINA3ILITY
8.        The overall impact of the project has been insignificant.  There
have not been conclusive results from the various trials and the imported
coconut hybrids have not been performing well despite high expectations
during the project. The hybrids have not been resistant to the deadly
lethal disease (LD).
9.        The project research activities were biased towards the coconut
hybrids and less emphasis was placed on the EAT coconuts. There is need to
put more emphasis on the local East African Tall coconut trees and for the
project to be involved in Cooperative Research with other institutions in
the effort to control the diseases and pests constraining the coconut
industry.



- 16 -
10.       Therefore, at the end of the pilot project we do not yet have
adequate information on resistant coconut varieties, nor do we have
relevant technical packages available for the improvement of coconut
production. Despite the fact that the project has provided a research
methodology to look into the problems facing the coconut industry, the
planning and management of trials has yet to incorporate a set of
procedures for use in Phase II of the project (or by the extension service
on farmers fields. through demonstration plots).
11.       These research efforts are still needed and the sustainability
of the  research program in the Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project is of
paramount importance. MALD is satisfied that the Treecrops Project has
taken into account research activities besides taking note of the need to
improve the planning and management of research trials and to make the
varietal testing program of EAT an important part of the overall program.
12.       The impact of the high-performing seed farms has been
encouraging. Part I of PCR correctly points out the likelihood of being
self-sufficient in pollen requirements and therefore having no need to
further import pollen. However, this self-sufficiency is constrained by
incorrect emasculation and this aspect needs improvement by closely
monitoring the emasculators and providing incentives to them (for low
occurrence of inbreds in nurseries).
13.       The seed farms have been able to increase seednut production
(see Part I) and that increase has improved the availability of coconut oil
and revenue which has been revolved back into the project activities. The
availability of that revenue (approximately 10 million in 1988189) helped
to reduce the local funds constraint. However, close monitoring of those
funds should be carried out to ensure their effective utilization.
14.       The impact of human resource development and therefore
effectiveness of the training program has not been fully satisfactory in
view of the badly managed research trials in farmers fields, e.g. pest
control. Therefore, while the project has had some training for the
project staff, the effectiveness of the latter has in the short term been
less significant, possibly because of the inadequacy of the training given.
It is also likely that the trained staff have not had enough time with the
project to fully utilize their skills to improve the implementation of the
activities.
15.       All the trained staff however are still with the project.  This
will have a positive impact on sustainability and improved performance in
Phase II of the project.  The provision of adequate training of setaff and
provision of staff houses in Phase II will help to sustain the staff in the
project. There is a need, therefore, to complete the building program as
originally planned for the Pilot project.
16.       It is too early to gauge the project's full impact on national
and sectoral objectives and policies. Nevertheless, the increased
distribution of seednuts to farmers from various nurseries will contribute
to increased availability of coconut oil and farmers' income. However,
this achievement has been modest in view of the short life of the project.
The project has also had some impact on review of the marketing and pricing



- 17 -
issues of the coconut industry. The provision of incentives to farmers in
the second phase of the project will be imperative to encourage new
plantings and new coconut growers.
BANK PERFORMANCE
17.       The Bank was fully involved in the desigr. of the project and
through the various supervision missions, the Bank was also involved in its
implementation. Nevertheless, Part I correctly points out the initial
inability of the Bank to monitor closely the technical aspects of the
project - the result of this was poorly planned and managed research
activities.
18.       The Bank was flexible and the relationship between the Bank and
the Tanzania Government was sound. The Bank cooperated to make adjustments
on the restr4ctive Credit Development Agreement to finance other activities
which, although appearing in the appraisal report, had not been reflected
in the DCA.
THE CONSULTING SERVICES
19.       The GTZ was the Managing Agency for the Pilot Project.  The
Agency did outstanding work in the coordination of the overall coconut
development program leading to a successful completion of the Coconut Pilot
Project. Quality and commitment of all staff (local and expatriate) to
coconut development in Tanzania were commendable. GTZ however could have
made more use of short term consultancies as provided under the project;
but it is questionable whether more decisive data could have been collected
from the relatively poorly designed and managed on-farm trials, in using
more consultants. On the other hand, research trials, which were easier to
control, provided much valuable data as shown in the numerous technical
reports.
THE PERFORMANCE OF BOROVER
20.       The Government provided all the necessary support and
cooperation in the preparation and implementation of the project. The
Borrower complied with all credit conditions. It is not wholly true that
compliance with the provision of appropriate funds was not entirely
satisfactory. The truth is that the NCDP pilot project was one of the few
projects which received maximum financial support from the Government.
Whenever the budgeted funds were inadequate, the government provided extra
funds to the project almost every year. It seems, however, that the
project budgeting for local funds was filled with flaws and
inconsistencies. The Borrower was faced with a situation where it had to
make repeated reviews of the budget to provide necessary funds requirement.
21.       Improved planning for implementation and management of fund
activities would, no doubt, have reduced or gotttn rid of unnecessary
project costs. The planning for many but suboptimal research trials was
one of the constraints on the budget for local funds. The Government,
however, notes with satisfaction GTZ's cooperation to use its own funds in
cases where the local funds disbursements were delayed in the process of
reviewing NCDP's budget(s).



- 18 -
LESSONS TO BE LEARN?
22.       Research projects should be designed with a long term
perspective to allow the research program ample time to be completed and to
yield adequate results.
23.       Good planning and management of research activities is
important. Research trial sites, size of trials, early decision on
research procedures and standards and close monitoring of research program
is indispensable. The recruitment of experienced and qualified research
and agronomist specialists is a necessity in research programs.
24.       The Bank should always make sure that its mission
recommendations are implemented. The Bank could also improve the quality
and continuity of its mission work by not frequently changing the
personalities in the various missions.
ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF INFOIMRTION IN PAR? III
25.       The information provided in Part III for project costs is not
wholly complete. The NCDP has forwarded to all parties concerned the up
dated data.
26.       There is a mix-up of agronomy trials and management/:ehabilita-
tion trials. In Table 4 of the PCR it is possible that many agronomy
trials have been grouped under Maintenance and Rehabilitation. Note that
the Maintenance and Rehabilitation trials in the appraisal report were
meant to be large-scale, on-farm, non-statistical trials-cum-
demonstrations, planned jointly by the plantation management advisor and
agronomist but implemented by the plantation management advisor. The
Management and Rehabilitation trials are few but large, relative to
agronomic trials which are many and small.



- 19 -
Table 1
PAZT-II
SMTICuLm
Related Benk LoMJs =adlor Credits
1.   There were no related loans or credits at the time of appraisal.
2.   A "Cashew Pilot Project' was built up on the undisbursed balance of
Credit 801-TA which was intended to finance the 'Second Cashewnut
Development Project. It was completed by July 1989.
3.   A  Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project' was appraised in October
1988. It draws on the experience of both pilot projects. the Cashew
Pilot Project and the Coconut Pilot Project. It was presented to
the Board in June 1989 and is expected to be effective in January
1990.



- 20 -
Tatle 2
Proisle Timetable
Date  Planned   Datg Revised   Date Actual
Identification (GOT/Consultants)                                   197F
Preparation (FAO/CP)                                            May 1979
Pre-Appraisal Mission                                              June 1979
Appraisal Mission 11/                                              October 1979
Credit Negotiations                                                July 1980
Board Approval                                                     7 Oct. 1980
Credit Signature                                                   24 Oct. 1980
Credit Effectiveness             23 January 1981                   20 April 1981
Credit Completion                30 Sept. 1985       Dec. 1987    Dec. 1988
Credit Closing                   March 1986          March 1987
March 1988   Mar-h 1989
1/ SAR issued only in August 1980.



- 21 -
Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemants
(US$ '000)
Appraisal         1,700  2,900  4,100  5,500  6,500  6,800 Z/ .....
Estimate
Actual ./           326    723  1,069  1,649  2,402  3,775    5,140  5,953  5,971 41
Actual as X          19     25      26     30      37     55
of Estimate
1/ Calendar years, ending 31 December.
2/ 30 June 1986.
l/ Historical USS equivalent, from SOR figures.
A/ Credit balance at 31 December 1989 was SOR101,671.



- 22 -
Table 4
Prniect Tnmlemleatatinn
KeX Indicators              li$       Agnraisal    Rlevsed        WMtAl
Mafia Segd Gardgn
Mother palms                 ha           80           68 I/        63
Father palms                 ha           20           20           23
Agronomy Trials LI           ha          200          168          126
Maintenance and              ha        1,130          870           40 4/
rehabilitation trials
Technical Assistante
Agronomist                man/months      60           78           78
Plantation Manager           u            60           72           72
Workshop Manager                i/-                    24           24
Financial Controller            l/        -            24           24
Seed Prod. Manager           " I/         -            20           -
rarm Manager for Mafia       "  l         -            19           -
Sail Survey
Land Suitability Map                       1           -             1
Detailed Soil Survey         ha          300          n.a.          n.a.
Short-term C    'nnultants   man/months    6           10           n.a.
1/ Target reduction because of shortage of suitable land in Mafia.
VI Termed *variety trials' in SAR, but programme has expanded (fertilizer,
spacing, weeding, inter-cropping, etc.) and is more aptly renamed as
*agronomy trials".
,a/ Positions not included in SAR. Agreed by Credit Amendment.
4/ Excluding demonstration trials without statistical design.



- 23 -
Table 5
Page 1
Praiegt Costs
Anraisal Estimate          A       c t u a  1  /
Loa1  Foreign  IZua     Lnal  Foreign   IcA
Costs  Excnoe           LCasts  Exghage
...................   US 0 0 .................... 
Varietal (agronomy) trials   842      899    1,741    1,747    1,866    3,613
Improved maintenance and      500   1,217    1,717       169      411      580
rehabilitation trials
Seed garden                    85     365      450       105      452      557
Soil survey                    -      422      422  )
Technical assistance           -      964      964  )
Training                       -       72        72  )
Consultants and overseas       -      106       106  )     0    3,354    3,354
Laboratory services                                  )
Phase II Feasibility           -       72        72  )
Study                                                )
Project Management Fee         -      591      591  )
Total base cost            1,427    4,708    6,135    2,021    6,083    8,104
Contingencies Z/             693    1,716    2,409       -        -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COST         2,120    6,424    8,544    2,021    6,083    8,104
1/ Estimates based on loan disbursements and co-financing percentages, as
in SAR.
Z/ Physical contingencies 6X, price contingencies 33X of total in SAR.
JI Converted from SOR figures at the average rate SOR1 a USS1,17.
fiL=: Data on project costs is only a rough estimate, since accounts were
recorded mixing overall NCOP and project activities, different
components, currencies and sources of financing. More accurate
estimates were requested, but are not yet available.



- 24 -
Table 5
Page 2
Project Financing J/
CategorX   Ida Crgdit i/                   ilaDngd                  finali 2a
..............SOR'000 ......
(1)       Civil works                        100         460          581
(2)       Vehicles, tractors, related
attachments and spare parts
(farm tools, office equipment,
pump sets and barbed wire),
for:
a. Part A of the project          270          500       1,010
b. Part B of the project          230          260         198
c. Part C of the project          -            100            2
(3)       Technical assistance,           2,170        2,240        2,867
consultants' services,
training and laboratory
services
(4)       a. Imported seed nuts              290         320          351
for Part A
b. Imported seed nuts             -            120          73
for Part B
c. Imported seed nuts             120          380          42
(and pollen) for Part C
d. Locally procured seed nuts    210            -            -
(5)       Fertilizer (and other             690          200           76
agricultural inputs)
(6)       Refunding of the project           220          - 4/          0
preparation advance
(7)       Unallocated                       900          620            0
Total IOA                             5,200,000   5,200,000   5,200,000
1/ There were several amendments to the Development Credit Agreement, the last
one dated March 1986 is used hereto.
2I Final allocation of funds according to the latest disbursements and assuming
the remaining SOR127,890, totally earmarked for payments of T.A. will be
exhausted until September 1989.
J/ Addenda to revised categories are presented within brackets.
4/ Deleted since expected expenditures were not incurred.



- 25 -
Table 6
Pro-ject Resultc J/
Agronomv Trials                  Sjite    Iriail s    r"t       Remarks
(ha)
Variety trials                      6       14       73.4       19 varieties
P8121 plots                         2        2        5.3
Fertilizer trials                   6       13       50.9       3 exploratory, 7
long term, 2 on
P81221 and 1 on
EAT
Maintenance/Rehabilitation
Fertilizer placement               4         4        5.4
Spacing - Management                3        3       13.0       7.7 ha with
variety I in
Zanzibar
Weeded circle                       5        5        4.9
Coconut/citrus spacing              2        2        7.0
Planting                            1        1        1.8       In Maramba
Management                          2        2        3.6
Underplanting                       2        2        4.5       In Zanzibar
Seed Farms
Production of hybrid            205    175    904    527        1988 partial data
seednuts ('000)
Seednuts distributed               51    80    269    168
Hybrid                             -     -       63     50
EAT
1/  Details on research results are available in a Technical Annex retained
in Bank files.



- 26 -
Table 7
Cmogitance with Cradit Conditions
OCA 5ecti0n    Content                                     ComtianceP              Remarks
3.01 (a)        To provide appropriate funds,              Compliance not          Government budget
facfltties services and other               ntirely               allocations were
ressources                                 satisfactory           some years Insufficient
to cover needs
3.01 (b)        60Z to make available 8                    Not fully               4 tractors were
tractors In Zt-tibar                       complied with          provided, of which
2 were operational
3.02 (a)        To employ agricultural management          Complied with           6TZ was employed
consultants
3.02 (b)        To employ a Coconut Agronom1st             Complied with
3.02 (c)        To employ a Plantation Manager             Compiled with
3.02 (d)        To recruit agricultural consultants        Complied with
the preparation of Phase Ii proJect
3.02 (e)        To employ additional agricultural
consultants for specific technical
aspects
3.02 (f) J/    To employ a Financial Controller and    Complied with
Workshop Manager
3.02 (9) ,L    To employ a Seed Production Manager         Not compiled with
and a Form anager in Maffa
3.03            To assign local staff as counterparts   Complied with
3.04 (b)        Credit proceeds to be used                 Complied with           It was agreed to allow
for the project                                                   some flexibility to the
use in NCOP activities
4.01 (a)        Keeping of records and separate            Complied with           Although project
accounts                                                           accounts are not easily
Identifiable among NCOP
accounts, In particular
for local funds
4.01 (b)        Submission of audited accounts             Complied with           Ouring first three
years audited accounts
were submitted with
delays
S.01 (a)        Selection of sites for trials              Complied with
and seed garden
,I Amendment to the OCA of March 1986.



- 27 -
Table 8
A. M       s*n 1
ACTIVtTY               Zf   Zg   fl 1         2 i tE                    f 8
Pmpprol)al            11.2  47.4  2.5   -    -    --    -    -    -            -      1.1
Apprim                 -      -  898   -    -    -    -    -    -                -    u.a
N.ptiotleU     -     -    .96.330-1   -             -            -           3.9
8u,.vl.ioo             -      -         8.5 12.6  4.   3.2 20.0  21.1 I.0  6.1   33.5
03m                   -     .1  .2          -    -    _    _    _    _    _          .8
tOTAL ay Yom          11.2  47.5  S.9 10.8 12.3  4.3  3.2 20.3 21.1 19.0  5.1  135.9
/   orld Bank tie recorffding syst  (February 1SM
8. Mission&
StagLnof     Manth/ NM- nf 9S  SnaciaWi2ation  Performance  Ratina  Tyne of
XSAZ  E     1 Persn in  BanRgrsntad     Status     kug    Prohlems
c1ele   /    L±a]A      4t  5/                       ii Zl    Al
Appraisal     06/80    4      n.a.       n.e.             -         -
Supervision
I 1/        02/82    2       14       n.a.            n.a.       n.a      n.e.
tI i        08/82    2       10       a a               1         2
I II        01184    1       12        E               1          2
IV          08/84    1       11        E               1          2
Sup. OTO      11/84    1        2         L               -         -
V           03/85    2       11         E. A            1         1        N
VI          07/85    2        9          ..             1         2         N
ViJ         12/85    2        4          ,E             1         --
VIII        06/86    2       11         A, E            1
iX          01/87    2       11          .             1L
X           12187    1        5         A               I
XI          04/88    1        6         a               1         -
III 10/     10/88    4       12        A, E, F         I          -
n.a. nU! available
I/ From MIS reports.                         A/ 1  Problem-free or minor proble,m.
2/ Only actual staff inputs data                2  Moderate problems.
available from 1982 to 1988.                 3* 9;aJor problems.
1/ Date of the mission report.               I/ la Improving, 2- Stationary.
41 An Agronomist or agriculturalist,            3m Oeteriorating.
En Economist or Agricultural              Q/ Fs Financial, Ts Technical,
Economist, Fs Financial analyst.             Mm Managerial, Ps Political,
A/ Underlined abreviations show the             N- None of significance.
members  presence in previous             I/ Supervision report not available
missions.                                    on file.
10/ Cotnciding with appraisal of Cashew
and Coconut Treecrops 'roject



_28 -
Table 9
Training Proaramme
Namem              Field and Level of Training   Duration            Location
Kinyawa            M.Sc.in management              1 year (86-87)   USA
Seif Rash4d        Coconut & cocoa productiOn    3 weeks (84)        Malaysia
Makalla            Training on management of       6 months (85)    Sri Lanka
coconut plantation
Makalla            Training on coconut             3 weeks (86)       Ivory Coast
hybrid production
Mligo              Course: Coconut hybrid          3 weeks (84)       Ivory Coast
production
Materu             Training on coconut             3 weeks (85)       Ivory Coast
production
Rashid             ditto                           3 weeks (85)       Ivory Coast
Kabonga            ditto                           3 weeks (84)       Ivory Coast
Hafidhi            Training on management          6 months (85)    Sri Lanka
of coconut plantations
Ngowo              Management of agricultural    5 weeks (83)        Sri Lanka
research
Chipungaelo        Cropping system (seminar)       3 weeks (84)       Indonesia
Chipungaelo        Coconut production              3 weeks (84)      Malaysia
(conference)
Silima             M.Sc. agronomy                  1 year (88-89)   Philippines
Kabonge            M.Sc. plant management          1 year (87-88)   United
Kingdom
Mgema              Study tour for coconut          3 weeks (88)      Jamaica
Kyamba             Research                        3 weeks (88)      Jamaica
Sengalawe          Research                        3 weeks (88)      Jamaica
Ndee               Course in coconut breeding    3 weeks (88)         Ivory Coast
and hybridation
Ngowo              Coconut agro-technology         1 month (88)       Philippines
extension



- 29 -
TAbleJ1Q
Short-Term Consultancies I/
Name or Institution           Field of Exoertise                Data
AGRAR und Hydrotechnik        Study on land suitability         5 months (1980)
(GmbH)                        and soil survey
Mr. Wuidart (IRHO)            Recommandations for seed          2 weeks (1982)
gardens, EAT selection,
collection of local germplasme,
training programmes, pollen
pollen import, etc.
Mr. E. Klinger                Analysis of coconut produc.       4 days (1984)
(Frankfurt/Main)             seedling production.
Recommandation on the
replanting programme
Mr. R. Schutz                 ditto                             3 weeks (1984)
(Moehrendorf)
Mr. Blaak
(Institut voor de Tropen,   ditto                               3 weeks (1984)
Amsterdam)
Coopers & Lybrand Ass.        Analysis for replanting           n.a. (1984)
(London)                     programme
Dr. Schroeder                 Planning for project              4 weeks (1984)
(Berlin)                     activities
Dr. Engelhard                 ditto                             2 weeks (1984)
(Frankfurt/Main)
Mr. A. Schwarzmann            Deputy for Mr. Bauer              3 months (1986)
Mr. E. Hauser                 Study on socio-economic           3 months (1986)
(Stuttgart)                  conditions of small farmers
Preparation Report Phase II
Mr. R. Bryant                 Preparation Report Phase II       6 weeks (1987)
Euroconsult                   Supervision of construction       n.a. (1988 and
works                             1989)
Mr. Beharrell                 Counterpart training              1 week (1988)
(Silsoe College, U.K.)      Mr. Kabonge
Bish Consult                  Supervision of construction       n.a.
works
1/ Consulting services paid by GTZ from IDA credit.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 14814R2
KE_4YA
TANZANIA
ZAIRE
--L    ILOT    OJEC
.                                  /R   '*-$-J
ARUSHA                                            Sfoow R 1
ES SALAAMMAL~E
*                                            t A    NZ A A NA
*   IaIwmaUwIAMIupad
L               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.
>_   1    e>X.,    /    $  eio         $~~~~~~A~ 99



