Document of                       aFIL   CO P YD
The World Bank                           F            0'aU"'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2906-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
August 14, 1980
Eastern Africa Region
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Units                 =    Tanzania Shillings (Tsh)
US$0.12                       =    Tsh 1.00
US$1.00                       =    Tsh 8.30
US$1.00                       =    SDR 0.755068
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                             British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =    3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2      =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )      =    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter                       =    0.26 US gallon (gal)
=    0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton                  =    2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
FRG       -    Federal Republic of Germany
GAPEX     -    General Agricultural Products Export Corporation
GOT       -    Government of Tanzania
GTZ       -    German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IRHO      -    Institut De Recherches Pour Les Huiles Et
Oleagineux
MARI      -    Mlingano Agricultural Research Institute
MDB            Marketing Development Bureau
NAFCO     -    National Agricultural and Food Corporation
PPMB      -    Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of the
Ministry of Agriculture
TIRDEP    -    Tanga Integrated Regional Development Project
TRDB      -    Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government        -    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ........          ..............................     1
A.  Project Background ............ ..1............ 
B.  The Agricultural Sector ...............                     I
C.  Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy..               2
D.  Agricultural Services .......................               2
E.  Agricultural Marketing and Pricing .........                4
F.  Previous Bank Group Assistance ..............               5
II.  COCONUT SUB-SECTOR ......         .........................       5
A.  General      ...............................                5
B.  Coconut Production ..................                       6
C.  Diseases and Pests ..................                       7
D.  Research and Extension ..            ....................   8
E.  Marketing and Processing ...............                    9
F.  Future Prospects ............ .. ..............            10
III.   PROJECT CONCEPT AND SCOPE .......... .. ...........             10
A.  Project Rationale ......          ......................   10
B.  The Federal Republic of Germany Project ......             12
C.  The Project Area ......          ......................   13
IV.   THE PROJECT ..............................                     14
A. General Description                  .         .            14
B.  Detailed Features ............ .. .............            15
C.  Project Costs ...................                         22
D.  Financing    .................. .................          24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................              25
A.  Management .................         .................     25
B.  Procurement        ................. ................      25
C.  Disbursement .............. ..        ................     26
D.  Accounts and Audit ........... .. .............            27
E.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ........              27
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS .................         ................     28
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........               29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of A. Sidhu, J. Wijnand, A. Malik and A. Klempin (all IDA) which visited
Tanzania in October, 1979.
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
lof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



ANNEXES
Supporting Charts, Tables and Maps
Chart C-1      Schedule of Implementation
Chart C-2      Organizational Chart
Table T-1      Export of Coconut Products
Table T-2      Illustrative Hectare Budget
Table T-3      Ecological Data
Table T-4      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table T-5      Summary of Project costs
Table T-5a     Varietal Trials
Table T-5b     Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Trials - Chambezi
Table T-5c     Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Trials - Zegereni
Table T-5d     Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Trials - Zanzibar
Table T-5e     Seed Garden
Table T-5f     Soil Survey
Table T-5g     Technical Assistance
Table T-5h     Training
Table T-5i     Consultants and Overseas Laboratory Services
Table T-5j     Phase II Feasibility Study
Table T-5k     Project Management Fee
MAP - IBRD 14814R1



TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Project was identified by an IDA mission in May, 1978 and
prepared by the Government of Tanzania (GOT) with assistance from FAO/CP in
May, 1979. It was appraised by an IDA mission comprising of A. Sidhu, J.
Wijnand, A. Malik and A. Klempin (all IDA) in October, 1979. The overall
objective of the Project is to develop a strong base from which future pro-
grams for rehabilitating the ailing coconut industry in Tanzania could be
undertaken. Specifically the Project would assist in the formulation of a
technical package for improved production of coconuts and train local staff
to carry out projects related to the rehabilitation and development of the
coconut industry.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Tanzania's population (about 17 million in 1979)is increasing at a
rate of about 3% per annum. Per capita GNP for 1978 is estimated at US$230.
Real growth of GDP averaged about 5% per annum over the period 1976 - 78.
Roughly' 50% of GDP is derived from agriculture and related activities,
about half of this contribution coming from subsistence production. More than
90% of the population is engaged in agriculture. About 70% of Tanzania's
foreign exchange earnings from merchandise exports are accounted for by
unprocessed agricultural commodities, and a further 7% by processed farm
products. The major export commodities are coffee, cotton, cashewnuts, tea,
and tobacco.
1.03      Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice and live-
stock. The largely traditionally managed livestock herd, estimated at
10 million head, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country free
from tsetse fly.
1.04      The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been sluggish.
Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of agricultural
production was about 2.7%. From the late 1960's onward food production has
failed to keep pace with population growth and as a result, Tanzania has
become increasingly dependent on rice and wheat imports. The effects of this
slow growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by poor harvests as a result of
a severe drought which necessitated large importations of food grains. Since
1975, however, overall agricultural production has recovered, increasing in
real terms at an average annual rate of 7%. At the same time there has been a
shift from cash crops toward food crop production. Despite food crop produc-
tion increases, rising demand for food crops has resulted in Tanzania continu-
ing to depend on imports of rice and wheat.



-2-
C.    Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
1.05      The Government has undertaken a program to support the development
of the agricultural sector, in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced
regional growth and more equitable income distribution. Within these objec-
tives, the Government is paying particular attention to achieving self-
sufficiency in food production and to supporting export crops. Greater
emphasis is now being placed on the production rather than the social aspects
of rural development projects. In 1972, Government administration was decen-
tralized to the regional and district levels in order to plan development
programs more closely related to the needs of the new villages. Since Independ-
ence, but particularly since 1970, the Government, in order to facilitate the
provision of infrastructure and services to the rural population, and to
encourage self reliance and a community approach to rural development, adopted
a strategy whose key element has been the grouping of dispersed farm families
into villages.
1.06      There are at present about 7,700 registered villages, allocated for
administrative purposes into 1,828 rural wards, containing over three-quarters
of Tanzania's rural population. The village is intended to be the country's
primary social, economic and political unit. Basic social services, including
health facilities, schools and water supply systems, are to be provided.
Economic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs, organization
of extension services and marketing of produce, are to be coordinated at the
village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage godowns, processing
equipment and small-scale industries, are to be village-owned investments.
D. Agricultural Services
Research
1.07      Agricultural research in Tanzania is undertaken by a number of
government agencies but the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) is responsible
for overall guidance of the national research effort, and operates a network
of crop and livestock research stations. Tanzania's research system, which
has deteriorated over the years, has several weaknesses. Kilimo has not
been able to exercise effective control and, as a result, priorities have not
always been firmly established, the regional emphasis has been unclear, and
research resources have not been allocated in accordance with development
prioritles. There is a need for sharper focus on improving knowledge on
Tanzania's agro-economic zones, and on improving the farming systems in these
zones through a greater emphasis on field testing.  The links between research
and extension are weak because of poor coordination between the Regions, who
are responsible for extension, and Kilimo who is in charge of research and
training.



- 3 -
1.08      The Tanzanian research system already receives support under the
Tabora Rural Development Project (Cr. 803-TA). Tanzania is also increasing
its links with various international agricultural research institutes sup-
ported through the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR).
Extension
1.09      Responsibility for agricultural extension in Tanzania is divided
between Kilimo (which trains extension staff), the twenty regional adminis-
trations (which are responsible for the day-to-day management of about half
of the country's extension staff) and some crop parastatals (which employ
the remaining extension staff). In early 1978, a total of 100 graduates,
3,000 field officers with formal diploma or certificate-level training, and
3,500 field assistants with little formal training, were involved in extension
work. Extension efforts have been relatively ineffective. As a result
of the weak research base, relatively few proven technical packages are
available. Many field staff are inadequately trained and supervised, and
receive limited logistical support. The situation was made worse in 1978 by
the decision of Government to appoint salaried Village Managers to each
registered village. Many of the better trained extension staff were trans-
ferred to become Village Managers. The relationship between Village Managers,
extension agents and Village Management Technicians 1/ remains unclear, and
Kilimo and the Prime Minister's Office (which has overall responsibility for
regional administration) hold differing views on how extension should be
organized in the future. IDA has made proposals to Government on the reorgan-
ization of the extension service, using the principles of the 'training and
visit' system adapted to Tanzania conditions, and the extension services in
Mwanza and Shinyanga regions are being reorganized along these lines as part
of the IDA-supported Rural Development Project for these regions (Cr. 803-Ta).
Kilimo is currently drawing up a comprehensive plan for the overall development
of agricultural extension. Progress on the improvement of extension services
has continued to be slow.
Credit
1.10      The major agencies involved in the provision of credit to the agri-
cultural sector are the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB). NBC is the main source of short-term credit to
parastatals for produce marketing, and in addition provides about two-thirds
of the total production credit, mainly to large estates. TRDB provides long,
medium and short-term agricultural credit, administers special funds on behalf
of Government, and has been supported by the Bank Group as the major credit
channel for funds disbursed for direct use by farmers. A project to strengthen
TRDB has recently been approved by IDA.
1/   For a description of the Village Management Technician Program, see
the staff Appraisal Report for the Fifth Education Project (Cr. 607-TA).



-4-
Rural Transport Services
1.11      An adequate road transport system is needed to ensure the efficient
movement of crops to market centers and railheads, and to support timely
delivery of agricultural inputs to the farmers. Despite Government's efforts
to upgrade the road network, only about 10 percent of the 33,400 km of roads
provide reliable, all weather service. The remainder, particularly rural
roads, are, in general, little more than earth tracks impassable in the rainy
seasons. In addition, the trucking fleet available for use by parastatals
(either through ownership or hire) has been limited, thus making crop movement
even more difficult. Crop marketing has suffered from high transport costs,
and deterioration of crops in villages with inadequate storage facilities.
Poor transport facilities cause delays in payment to villages and often
dictate that villages receive sums large enough to handle crops over extended
periods, leading to inadequate supervision and accounting of funds advanced
for purchases. Current Government action to address these problems is
directed mainly at the public sector, and includes the provision of staff
training and equipment under several IDA-assisted projects, and the recent
creation of betterment and maintenance units' which are upgrading selected
secondary roads in several regions. Assistance to the public trucking industry
is being provided through the IDA-supported Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project (Cr. 743-TA). This has not proved sufficient to
overcome transport bottlenecks in the critical areas of crop procurement and
the Government, under IDA assisted projects, has provided parastatals with
additional transport facilities.
E. Agricultural Marketing and Pricing
Marketing
1.12      In May 1976, the Primary Cooperative Societies and Unions, which
previously played an important role in agricultural marketing' were dissolved
and these functions transferred to other district, regional and national
organizations, of which the most prominent are the various parastatal bodies.
At present, there are separate parastatal organizations for coffee, tea,
sugar, livestock and dairy products, foodgrains, cashewnuts, tobacco, cotton,
sisal and pyrethrum. In addition to providing marketing and processing
services, most parastatals have development responsibilities as well and their
generally ambitious expectations have placed severe strains on manpower
resources. Parastatal marketing is normally characterized by lack of competi-
tion, high cost, poor services and slow payments to farmers. The Government
is aware of these problems. Its Standing Committee on Parastatal Organization
(SCOPO) is reviewing the structure and managerial performance of parastatels.
There have been transfers of staff from over-manned parastatals. The Bank
group is assisting in the reviews through its analysis of parastatals involved
in recent and proposed IDA credits; i.e. the Tea Adthority, the Cashew Authority,
the Tobacco Authority, the Pyrethrum Board (proposed to be renamed the Pyrethrum



- 5 -
Authority in future) and the National Milling Corporation. It also intends to
start a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural parastatals as a principal
focus of its sector work in FY80 and FY81.
Pricing
1.13      The control of producer, wholesale and retail prices of major crops
is an important tool of the Government's development policy. Producer prices
of all principal export crops, except sisal and coffee, are controlled as are
major food crops except vegetables, fruits, fish and eggs. MOA is responsible
for formulating pricing recommendations. Its Marketing Development Bureau
(which receives assistance from UNDP and IDA) carries out annual reviews of
producer prices for major crops, taking into account production costs and the
need for incentives to producers. MOA's recommendations are reviewed by the
Agricultural Products Price Coordinating Committee, which consists of repre-
sentatives from the major ministries and parastatals and then by the Economic
Committee of the Cabinet, which makes the final decision on prices.
F. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.14      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Tanzania
has included IDA credits totalling US$250.8 million and IBRD loans for US$37
million for nineteen agricultural and three rural development projects. Agri-
cultural projects include one each for sugar, maize, fisheries, forestry, cot-
ton, and two each for agricultural credit,tea and cashewnuts, and three each
for livestock and tobacco. Rural development Projects have been financed by
IDA in the Kigoma and Tabora regions, and lately in Mwanza/Shinyanga region.
Project Performance Audit Reports for two projects (the Flue-Cured Tobacco
Project and the Smallholder Tea Development Project) have recently been pre-
pared. In both cases, the economic rate of return is satisfactory. However,
implementation experience highlighted the weaknesses of the parastatals
involved and the consequent need for considerable investment in institution-
building. Lack of experienced staff with the necessary expertise both at the
managerial and technical level has hampered implementation. Targets to be
achieved have tended to be overly ambitious within the time framework alloted.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the Project by
making it a Pilot Project to develop technical and management expertise for
subsequent full-scale projects.
II . THE COCONUT SUB-SECTOR
A. General
2.01        Coconut is an important crop in the entire coastal belt of Tanzania
including the islands of Zanzibar, Pemba and Mafia. It is predominantly a
smallholder crop and provides domestic subsistence requirements for fresh nuts



- 6 -
and oil which are important items in the diet of the coastal people. Surplus
nuts are processed into copra 1/ and sold to processing mills and the product
is used in various vegetable oil industries in Tanzania.
2.02      To the smallholder, apart from its food value, coconuts are a source
of cash income. It is the only cash crop, apart from cashewnut, which is
planted on an extensive scale along the coast. To the country it represents
a source of raw material for local industries and, until about 1974, was also
a source of substantial foreign exchange earnings from export of copra and
coconut oil (Table T-1).
2.03      In recent times, with improvements in transportation, the consump-
tion pattern of fresh nuts has changed markedly and the fresh nut market
has extended to areas further inland beyond the traditional 30-50 km width
of the coastal coconut belt, resulting in an increased fresh nut consumption.
Due to the increased demand for fresh nuts the market price of nuts has risen
from Tsh. 0.5 to about Tsh. 2.0 per nut over the last five years while the
price of copra, as fixed by Government, is Tsh 2.50 per kg. The farmer
receives about Tsh 0.6-0.7 per nut at his farm. It takes about 6 nuts to
produce 1 kg of copra which means that there is no incentive to produce copra.
At the same time, neglect of palms, poor management, old age of palms, and
pest and disease problems have led to a reduction in nut production over the
years. Consequently, progressively lower quantities of copra have become
available for export. Available statistics indicate a drop in copra exports
from 16,000 tons in 1969/70 to no exports in 1978/79 (Table T-1). Similarly,
coconut oil exports have declined, and ceased from a high of 8,900 tons in
1969/70. Eleven oil mills with a total crushing capacity of 20,000 tons,
previously fully utilized, are now running at only about 20% capacity. Palm
oil and other vegetable oil is being imported for local use to make up for
reduced availability of coconut oil. Thus, the coconut industry is playing a
markedly declining role as a foreign exchange earner as well as a supplier of
domestic needs.
B. Coconut Production
2.04      Reliable statistics on total area under coconuts are not available.
Current Ministry of Agriculture estimates, however, indicate 90,000 hectares
of coconuts on the mainland, of which about 41,000 hectares are located in the
Tanga region in the north, 23,000 ha in the Coast region and the rest mainly
in the Mtwara and Lindi regions in the south. Zanzibar and Pemba are esti-
mated to have 26,000 ha while Mafia Island has 8,500 ha of coconuts. Thus,
according to available information coconut cultivation is spread over 90,000
ha on the mainland and approximately 35,000 on the islands, making a total
of 125,000 ha for the Republic of Tanzania. About 95% of the total area is
smallholder coconuts. Estimates indicate roughly 75% of the palms are 50
years or more in age.
1/   Dried coconut meat before expression of oil.



- 7 -
2.05      The main variety of coconuts cultivated is what is generally
known as the East African Tall, and it comes into bearing in 6-7 years from
planting but under adverse conditions this period can extend to 10-12 years.
This variety continues to bear to about 70-80 years of age although there are
indications that proper maintenance and adequate fertilizer application can
extend this period. No reliable data on yields and production of smallholdings
is available but current overall yields are estimated to be about 20/nuts/palm
per year. In the Lindi region, despite a 5-6 month long dry season' there is
visual evidence of vigorous palm growth and yields of 40-60 nuts/palm from
8-10 year old palms under minimum maintenance conditions in some groves close
to villages in the coastal and valley bottom areas. There are some indications
from experimental data collected in Tanga some years ago, that mean yields of
80 nuts/palm are possible with improved management even with palms over 50
years old.
2.06     The general level of management of the coconut smallholdings is
extremely poor. Palm densities vary, ranging from 300 palms per hectare to
70-80 palms per hectare with an average of 90 palms per hectare of which only
about 70 palms are bearing. 1/ Maintenance is generally restricted to annual
burning of undergrowth, an operation which often damages and retards the
growth of the palms. Intercropping with food crops like cassava and maize, is
usually carried out in the early years of the growth of the palms in at least
part of the holding but fertilizer is rarely used for the coconuts or the
inter-crops. Farmers have shown some interest in infilling or new plantings
but the seedlings supplied to them through Government programs have been
unselected ones.
2.07     The management of the few estates or plantations, except for the
Mafia Plantation, is also now of a very low level. As in the case of the
smallholdings it is a low input - low output system. The larger estates,
previously owned and managed by European settlers, are now. State owned. The
former German-owned Opel Estate in Bagamoyo, Coast Region, is now owned and
managed by NAFCO. It covers approximately 1,600 ha and average yields are
estimated at about 20-25 nuts per palm with a palm density of 60-70 palm/ha.
Mafia Coconut Ltd. was incorporated in 1969 for the purpose of developing the
private estates on Mafia Island. Mafia plantation which covers an area of
2,800 ha is relatively better managed but due to financial constraints no
fertilizer has been applied over the last several years resulting in a decline
in production. Present yields are estimated at about 30-35 nuts/palm per
year.  Results from application of fertilizer to large blocks of 60-80 year
old palms indicate the possibility of increasing nut production from 20 to 40
nuts per palm over a 3-4 year period. The plantations on Zanzibar, which are
now Government owned, cover approximately 1,100 ha. The palms are old and
yields are estimated at about 25 nuts/palm.
C. Diseases and Pests
2.08      In recent years an estimated 20-25% of palms particularly in the
Tanga, Pangani and Bagamoyo areas have been affected by 'disease'. The
incidence of disease was first reported in 1968 but no clear cut answer
1/   Normal recommended density for pure stands of Talls is 143 palms/ha.



-8-
as to its nature has been given as yet. Steiner and Marshall, in 1976,
carried out a survey in Tanga Region and described the symptoms of the
'disease' which afflicted palms 8-40 years old. Laboratory examination
of tissue and root samples did not isolate specific fungi nor were abnormal
numbers of nematodes detected in the root samples, Further, electron micro-
scopic examination of tissue samples did not show virus or mycoplasma 1/-like
organisms, but in all samples Rickettsia 2/-like organisms were identified.
Contrary to an earlier report, Steiner and Marshall also were of the opinion
that Bole rot was not present in the Tanga region. They also did not find
any palms with symptoms resembling Lethal Yellowing or Kaincope diseases.
2.09     Some coconut specialists have expressed the opinion that since only
palms growing under unfavorable conditions or suffering from old age or neglect
tend to exhibit 'disease' symptoms, and since the 'disease' appears to have
appeared on the scene only in the last 5-10 years, the observed 'disease' may
be physiological rather than pathological or that the unfavorable growing con-
ditions predispose the palms to disease. The presence of the problem, none-
theless, is a matter of concern (paras 3.03-3.07).
2.10     The two main pests of coconut in Tanzania are the rhinoceros beetle
(Oryctes Monoceros, Oliv.) and a coreid bug (Pseudotheraptus wavi, Brown).
The rhino-beetle is seen to cause great damage to palms of all ages in all the
areas except the islands where the incidence is low. The insect breeds in
decaying organic material, such as dead coconut trunks, cattle manure, etc.
and the practice of farm hygiene involving proper disposal of dead palm trunks
and other organic debris is known to help reduce beetle infestation, but no
serious attempts have been made in Tanzania to encourage these practices.
Biological control of the beetle (0. rhinoceros) using the virus Baculovirus
oryctes has been tried in W. Samoa, Fiji and Tonga with considerable success.
Laboratory tests have shown 0. monocerus also to be susceptible to the virus.
The coreid bug which causes premature nut fall is a serious pest mainly in
Zanzibar. Attempts in the past at developing economic control measures for
this insect have not been successful.   There is need to develop control
measures in Tanzania, particularly for the rhino-beetle and to educate
farmers in these methods in order to reduce the damage to palms.
D. Research and Extension
2.11       Up to 1970, coconut research was carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture mainly at the Chambezi Experimental Station in the Coast Region.
However, no information or results from trials during this period have been
available or have been put into practice. Since 1970, research on coconut has
l/   Minute organisms of genus Mycoplasma that are intermediate between
viruses and bacteria.
2/ Any of a family (Ricketsiaceae) of micro organisms that cause various
diseases.



- 9 -
been shifted to Mlingano Agriculture Research Institute (MARI) in the Tanga
region. The current research program is extremely limited and reflects the
low priority accorded, hitherto, to coconuts. Some agronomic trials are also
being carried out at Chambezi, but supervised from MARI. Two Tanzanian
officials are assigned duties on coconut research. Both officers, however,
would benefit from further training and experience in coconut research.
2.12       The lack of emphasis on the part of  the Ministry of Agriculture
on coconuts in the past, is also reflected in the standard of extension
service provided on this crop. While the Regional Authorities are responsible
for extension services in the regions, the Ministry is responsible for provid-
ing guidance and training to regional staff on the technical aspects. There
has been no properly planned extension advice or program for improved coconut
production. The meagre Regional attempts at coconut extension have mainly
been limited to the establishment of nurseries for raising seedlings for
distribution to farmers. There are no reliable sources of good seed nuts, the
standard of nurseries is poor, except for those in Zanzibar, and the seedlings
distributed have been unselected ones.
E. Marketing and Processing
2.13     The marketing and pricing of fresh coconuts is not subject to state
control but the marketing of copra is. Up to 1976 the Cooperatives acted as
buying agents for copra for supply to the oil mills for processing or to the
General Agricultural Products Export Corporation (GAPEX) for exporting.
Since 1976, however, village councils, i.e. primary cooperatives, have acted
as buying agents for copra within a village. On district and regional levels
the copra is delivered to GAPEX or the National Milling Corporation (NMC). On
a national level only GAPEX conducts sales for exports of copra.
2.14      Copra price is fixed each year by Government as is the case with
other scheduled crops. Producer prices were raised sharply in 1974/75 after
world market prices for copra had increased from US$353/ton in 1973 (CIF
European Ports, in current terms) to US$662/ton in 1974. When world market
prices began falling below the 1974 level in 1975 - where they remained until
1979, Government retained the producer price at Tsh 2.30/kg, which has been
above the export parity price. Only in 1979, when world market prices re-
covered at about the 1974 level (US$673/ton), did the producer price fall
slightly below the export parity price, and consequently the Government
increased the price to Tsh 2.50/kg in 1980 to restore export parity.
2.15      Unlike the copra price, the producer price for fresh nuts is not
fixed by Government but determined by the market. Prices show wide seasonal
variations, with highest prices realized from September to December when
demand is greatest. As in the case of copra, prices for fresh nuts also
increased sharply in 1974/75, and have continued to increase from year to year
while the copra price was held constant. The average fresh nut producer price



- 10 -
for 1980 was about Tsh 0.70/nut while the price per nut in terms of copra was
about Tsh 0.40 only. Though at this lower price level copra production is
still a profitable enterprise for the coastal farmer as compared to other
crop alternatives (Table T-2), it is obvious that his clear priority is to
maximize profits by sales of fresh nuts and this, ultimately, has contributed
to the reduced supply of copra. For a large rehabilitation program in the
future (para 6.03) Government would need to address the coconut/copra producer
price relationship in the context of an overall production strategy of
various coconut products (para 3.08).
F. Future Prospects
2.16      Current estimated production of nuts is about 175 million.  Copra
purchase statistics for 1978/79 show an aggregate for the whole country of
about 1,000 tons only, which is equivalent to about 6 million nuts. The
balance of 169 million nuts can, therefore, be assumed to have been consumed
fresh. Assuming that the fresh nut market continues to expand inland due
to improving transportation facilities, and on the basis of present estimated
per capita consumption of about 40 nuts annually in the coconut growing areas
and adjacent regions, and with the population of these areas projected to
double by year 2000, consumption is estimated to absorb an additional 250
million nuts by that year.
2.17      Tanzania's population is estimated to almost double by year 2000
(to a total of 32 million). Based on a per capita consumption of 2.5 kg
edible oils, total demand for the country is estimated at 80,000 tons. If
only one-third would be extracted from copra, it converts to about 56,000 tons
copra, equivalent to about 300 million nuts. These requirements for domestic
consumption of fresh nuts and oil alone would exceed the production potential
of a large scale second phase coconut rehabilitation project (para 6.03).
III. PROJECT CONCEPT AND SCOPE
A. Project Rationale
3.01      The continuing decline in copra production, that has turned Tanzania
into a vegetable oil importing instead of an exporting country, an increasing
demand for fresh nuts and the desire of the Government to initiate more
development programs to benefit people in the coastal regions of the country,
has finally focussed attention on the coconut crop.
3.02      The extensive area under coconuts, strung out as it is along the
entire coast line and islands of Tanzania, the mature age of a large proportion
of the palms, many of which were planted prior to World War I, the considerable
production of copra in previous years, and current evidence of yield potentials



- 11 -
of 50-80 nuts/palms, all tend to indicate a generally satisfactory environment
for the growth of this crop. The decline in production has largely been
brought about by political and social changes affecting ownership of holdings
leading in many cases to neglect of the holdings, poor husbandry practices,
old age of the palms, diseases and a lack, hitherto, of a concentrated Govern-
ment effort to improve the coconut situation. The spontaneous replanting
carried out by some smallholders although on a very limited scale, but with
minimum of assistance or direction by Government, tends to indicate interest
on the part of smallholders in improving production.
3.03      A program or plan for the rehabilitation of the coconut industry
obviously needs to incorporate a coordinated approach covering institutional,
agronomic, marketing and processing aspects. A strong base from which a
coconut development program can be launched needs to be built. However,
before such a program can be formulated and subsequently implemented, it is
essential to remove recognized constraints that would hinder such an under-
taking. The main constraints are the following:
(a) lack of reliable information which could assist in the
formulation of a technical package incorporating recom-
mendations on variety and husbandry practices suited to
local conditions.
(b) lack of socio-economic data pertaining to the farmers
and their farms in the coconut growing areas.
(c) lack of adequate number of trained and experienced staff
to undertake a coconut rehabilitation program.
(d) the absence of a local source of selected and improved
planting material.
(e) inadequate information on the disease of unknown etiology
affecting palms in certain areas.
3.04      The constraints listed above are all of significant importance and
need to be addressed, but the choice of a variety of coconut that would form
the core of a technical package and, therefore, of the entire rehabilitation
program needs particular consideration. The East African Tall under Tanzanian
conditions comes into bearing in about the 6-7th year and has a yield poten-
tial of 60-80 nuts/palm under good smallholder management. Assuming a conver-
sion factor of 6 nuts to 1 kg of copra and a planting density of 143 palm/ha,
an estimated potential production of about 1.4-1.9 tons of copra per ha can be
expected. The use of this variety with improved husbandry practices would by
itself be a significant improvement over existing conditions. However,
research and field data from other coconut growing countries shows the poten-
tial of selected hybrid varieties, e.g. PB121 from Ivory Coast, 1/ with
1/   PB121 is a cross between Malaysian Yellow Dwarf and West African Tall.



- 12 -
early bearing characteristics (4-5th year) and yields of up to 180 nuts per
palm per year or 6 tons of copra from 15 year old palms under optimum manage-
ment. Thus, before undertaking extensive rehabilitation of existing, unproduc-
tive coconut areas, it is important that these hybrids (and other varieties)
be tested under Tanzanian conditions for if found successful their introduc-
tion into the rehabilitation program could have a significant impact on the
coconut industry.
3.05   The nature of the constraints listed above, the limited knowledge of
the suitability of available improved technology for coconut cultivation in
Tanzania'and the limited institutional capacity to undertake a coconut reha-
bilitation and development program dictates the need for a 'pilot' phase
designed to resolve these constraints and pave the way for the formulation and
implementation of a coconut development project.
B. The Federal Republic of Germany Project
3.06      The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) is providing about US$4.0
million under its Technical Cooperative Program to finance a pilot phase of
a National Coconut Development Project. The FRG has been involved in an
integrated regional development project for the Tanga region (TIRDEP) which
includes some work on coconuts. However, with the Government of Tanzania's
decision to place greater emphasis on the coconut sub-sector, the FRG was
requested to extend its assistance so as to include coconut areas outside of
the Tanga region as well. After careful consideration the FRG decided
that a pilot phase to tackle some of the constraints listed earlier (para 3.03)
was advisable.
3.07     Under an agreement concluded between GOT and FRG in April 1979, five
expatriate specialists (plant pathologist, entomologist, plant breeder,
agronomist/extension specialist and an economist/team leader) are being pro-
vided initially for a 3-year period. They would focus attention on the
following:
(a) Diseases and Pests
(i) studies of the diseases affecting coconuts in Tanzania
with a view to identifying the causal agents and deve-
loping control measures.
(ii) ascertaining the extent of spread of diseases and mapp-
ing disease free areas for possible subsequent development.
(iii)  development of control measures for the Rhino beetle and
coreid bug including biological control measures.
The disease and pest studies are expected to be based et
the Mlingano Agricultural Research Institute (MARI). FRG
funds will be used to employ two expatriate specialists
and to strengthen laboratory facilities at the Institute
to cope with the proposed disease and pest studies.



- 13 -
(b)  Plant Breeding
A breeding program was originally planned to study East African
Talls, and existing Malaysian Dwarfs and their combinations on
Mafia Island with a view to developing improved varieties and the
establishment of a seed multiplication unit. However, earlier
estimates of the number of Dwarf palms available on Mafia Island
for the breeding program, have proven to be over-estimates. As
an interim measure, therefore, under arrangements with IRHO, pollen
of the East African Tall will be flown to the Port Bouet Station
in the Ivory Coast, and the resulting hybrid seed nuts brought
back to Tanzania for testing. At the same time a 50 ha block of
Dwarfs 1/ would be established in Tanzania for the breeding program
and eventual use as a seed multiplication unit. The breeding
program will be carried out on Mafia Island whereby Mafia Coconut
Limited provides the field management but the program is tech-
nically supervised by the expatriate Plant Breeder who would be
based on the plantation.
(c)  Extension and Training
The Extension specialist recruited under the Project would
assist in drawing up a training program and in training
local extension staff in the regions on all aspects of coconut
husbandry and provide extension aids and set up demonstration
plots. In addition the FRG project will provide for training
overseas of up to six Tanzanian staff in the fields of plant
protection, plant breeding, agricultural extension and agricul-
tural planning. These staff are expected to take over and con-
tinue the work initiated by expatriate staff in these fields.
3.08      The FRG project would also assist the GOT in the preparation of a
Coconut Master Plan which is expected to provide a strategy and guidelines
for the rehabilitation of the Tanzania Coconut Industry. Institutional
requirements, marketing and price policies for coconuts and copra, farm
surveys and related studies would be carried out to assist in the preparation
of the Plan.
3.09      The Project is being implemented by the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ) on behalf of the FRG.
C. The Project Area
3.10      The Project would cover all the coastal coconut growing areas in
the Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Coast, Mtwara and Lindi regions of mainland Tanzania
and the island of Zanzibar.
1/   Malaysian, Cameroon, Guinea Equatorial, Sri Lanka Dwarfs.



- 14 -
3.11      The topography of the coconut growing areas is generally flat ro
undulating with some areas subject to waterlogging. The soils vary from
sand through silty-sand to silty-clay-sand or are laterized residual soils
of generally considerable depth. There are some areas with shallow soil
over reef limestones used often for sisal cultivation. In Zanzibar, coconuts
are mainly grown in the western part of the island where the soils are richer
and deeper than in the eastern or southern parts.
3.12      Rainfall varies from region to region (Table T-3).  In the Tanga
region the mean annual rainfall is about 1,300 mm; dropping to 1,000 mm in
the Bagamoyo area of the Coast region and to only 800-900 mm further south
in the Lindi region. On the islands of Zanzibar and Pemba the rainfall
is around 1,400 mm while Mafia island receives a substantially higher rainfall
averaging 1,800 mm. The rainfall distribution pattern also varies, with the
Tanga region in the north showing a bimodal pattern with a short dry season in
January and February and a much longer dry season from June through October.
In the Mtwara and Lindi regions in the south, the distribution pattern is
unimodal with a considerably longer dry season (6-7 months) from May through
November. During the dry season some rainfall occurs but the longer the dry
season, the greater the possibility of periods as much as 90 days without
effective rainfall (less than 3 mm). The stress due to moisture deficiency,
increasas with the length of the dry season and, therefore, is liable to be
greatest in the south. It is probable that in the Mtwara/Lindi area, in
particular, coconuts flourish largely because the sites selected by farmers
for growing coconuts are invariably along the Coast and in river valleys
where there is a high and perennial water table.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed Pilot Project would, over a five-year period, con-
tribute towards the development of a strong base from which future programs
for rehabilitating the coconut industry in Tanzania could be undertaken. It
would serve as a preparatory phase and provide guidance for the planning and
implementation of future large scale coconut projects. Specifically, the
Project would assist in the formulation of a technical package for improved
production of coconuts in Tanzania as well as train local staff to carry out
projects related to the rehabilitation of the coconut industry. At all stages
the Project was viewed as a part of the overall attempt by GOT to tackle the
constraints limiting coconut production and its attempts to rehabilitate the
coconut industry and, therefore, close attention was also paid to the FRG
project to ensure that the two projects are complementary to one another. The
FRG project covers disease and pest control studies, development of a breeding
program and establishment of a seed multiplication unit, training of staff,
and the formulation of a Coconut Master Plan.



- 15 -
4.02      The Project would comprise the following components:
(a) varietal trials on three sites on mainland Tanzania and
on one site on Zanzibar, covering a total of about 200 ha;
(b) improved maintenance and rehabilitation trials on a total
of about 1,000 ha on the Chambezi Experimental Station and
Zegereni State Farm on the mainland and on the Government
Plantations in Zanzibar;
(c) a 100 ha seed garden for the production of hybrid seed nuts;
(d) soil and hydrological surveys to assist in the selection
of varietal trial sites, the seed garden site, and the pre-
paration of a coconut land suitability map to guide future
developments;
(e) the services of an internationally-recruited coconut agro-
nomist and a coconut plantation manager to carry out the
varietal and rehabilitation trials;
(f) training of Tanzanian staff in coconut husbandry, rehabi-
litation methods and techniques;
(g) short-term consultants and overseas laboratory services;
(h) the preparation of a feasibility study for the next phase
of the coconut development program;
(i) contracting a consultant organization to manage and
implement the Project.
B. Detailed Features
Varietal Trials
4.03      This component would consist of a set of trials located at a
selected site in each of the regions of Tanga, Coast, and Mtwara-Lindi on
the mainland and Zanzibar. This would provide coverage of the major rainfall
distribution patterns of the coconut belt, as well as the high  disease
incidence areas.  An area of about 50 ha would be carefully selected in each
of the four areas taking into consideration soil suitability, and accesibility.
Consultants would be engaged to assist in the selection of these sites (para
4.18). In addition, the Project would also provide for tractors, equipment,
vehicles, spares, seednuts, a small office, store cum garage and operational
costs for carrying out the trials at each site.
4.04      The set of trials would consist of (i) a comparative study of the
performance of a number of varieties, i.e. a varietal trial, (ii) an evalua-
tion of the hybrid PB121; and (iii) a determination of the nutrient require-
ments of PB121. The objective of the varietal trial would be to select the



- 16 -
most promising variety of coconut for each of the regions. The basic design
of the trial at each of the sites would be the same and would include a number
of imported hybrids including PB121, and Tall varieties, e.g. W. African,
Rennel, Tahiti as well as the local E.A. Tall variety. It is anticipated that
about 30 varieties would be included in the trial but the final number and
varieties to be included would be dependent on availability of seed nuts.
Data would be collected on growth, precocity, production and disease and pest
resistance.
4.05      The development of the hybrid- PB121, by IRHO in the Ivory Coast
is a fairly recent phenomenon.  The oldest plantings are about 15 years old.
While it has the potential for high production (para 3.04) and has so far
performed well in several countries, it would be essential to test it under
Tanzanian conditions in order to determine the effect of local environmental
factors on its production potential. While the varietal trials would include
and compare PB121 and other promising varieties, an early evaluation of
this hybrid by itself, in view of its performance elsewhere, when planted
and managed according to a high and a low input system, i.e. estate and
smallholder management conditions, would be advantageous in giving indications
as to its suitability for planting under similar conditions. A 5 ha block of
PB121 would be established of each of the three sites on the mainland and one
on Zanzibar and the growth and production of the palms evaluated under a good
management system. In addition seedlings of PB121 would also be distributed to
selected farmers to determine the performance of this hybrid under smallholder
conditions. A total of about 10 farmers adjacent to each of the varietal
trial sites would be selected and given 20 seedlings each. The farmers would
also receive extension advice and fertilizer for the palms.  A total of about
40 farmers would therefore be involved in these trials.
4.06      A trial to determine the nutrient requirements of PB121 would also
be established at the sites proposed for the performance or evaluation trial.
Information from this trial would provide guidance for drawing up fertilizer
recommendations. To assist in monitoring the nutrient levels and determining
the nutrient needs of the palms, provision would be made for foliar analysis
services (para 4.26).
4.07      The importation of nuts for the trials would be from countries which
are known to be free from diseases. This would exclude in particular the
supply of nuts from the west-coast of India (Kerala Wilt), certain W. African
countries (Kaincope disease), certain areas of the Philippines (Cadang-cadang),
and Jamaica (Lethal yellow). lmportation and quarantine regulations would be
taken into account when importing seed nuts. Tanzanian Plant Quarantine
officials would visit the country supplying seed nuts to satisfy themselves
that the plantations supplying the seed nuts are disease free.
4.08      Nurseries to raise seedlings to be used in the trials would be
established at each of the four sites. The seednuts would be germinated
in germination beds to facilitate selection of seedlings and transferred to
a polybag nursery. Ten-month old selected .seedlings would be used for field
planting which would be carried out at the beginning of the wet season.



- 17 -
4.09      Nurseries at the three mainland sites would also be used to raise a
limited number of seedlings for distribution to farmers largely for infilling.
This, however would only be done in the 3rd year after the needs of the
varietal trials have been satisfied. Seedlings of the East African Tall,
raised and selected according to good nursery management and selection criteria,
would be distributed through the Regional Agricultural Development Office,
primarily to farmers who would be covered by the extension training component
of the FRG project to ensure that improved husbandry practices are followed.
This would enable the concept of selected seedlings and improved husbandry
practices to be introduced to farmers. Feedback to the Extension agronomist
would serve a useful purpose in the design of future programs. Approximately
33,000 seedlings per year (approximately 230 ha) would be distributed from
each of the three nurseries. The nursery in Zanzibar would not raise seedlings
for distribution to farmers as the present density of palms is generally too
high, and therefore, unlike the mainland regions, do not require infilling.
Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials
4.10      The objective of these trials which are essentially large scale
observations, would be to test known improved methods and techniques of
maintenance and rehabilitation of coconuts with a view to adopting or adapt-
ing them for local conditions. Results from these trials would enable the
development of a general technical package for use in a rehabilitation
program. Large blocks of existing coconuts located in Chambezi Experimental
Station, Zegereni State Farm on the mainland, and Government plantations in
Zanzibar would be used for this purpose. Provision would be made for the
necessary machinery and equipment, fertilizer and other maintenance costs
required to carry out these trials. In Zanzibar, Kilimo would make available
to the Project eight tractors from its existing fleet of tractors. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.11      Both the Chambezi Station and the Zegereni Farm are located in
the Coast region. The Chambezi Station belongs to the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and covers approximately 400 ha of which a block of about 100 ha of
mature palms (30-50 years old) would be used for the proposed trials. The
Zegereni Farm is managed by the Regional Agricultural Development Office
and is approximately 4,000 ha in area, of which only about 200 ha are pre-
sently under coconuts. An area of about 80 ha of newly planted and 6-10 year
old palms would be set aside for trial purposes. In Zanzibar, eight Govern-
ment plantations which cover approximately 950 ha, with palms about 50-80
years old, would be utilized to carry out the management and rehabilitation
trials.
4.12      The proposed trials would include (i) a comparison of fertilizer
rates, time of application and methods of placement on young and mature palms,
(ii) comparison of covers; methods and techniques of establishment and mainte-
nance of covers, (iii) weed control methods, (iv) methods and techniques of
replanting and thinning of dense stands (including disposal of discarded
palm trunks), determination of optimum palm densities; (v) intercropping;
(vi) comparison of nursery methods and techniques; (vii) comparison of disease



- 18 -
and pest control methods. These large scale trials would also provide cost
and production data which would facilitate the development of recommendations
both for smallholders and estates. Each of the trial sites would also serve
as a training ground for local staff, both on managerial as well as crop
husbandry aspects.
Seed Garden
4.13      To develop and implement a sizeable coconut rehabilitation program
in the coming years as is envisaged in Tanzania, steps need to be taken to
establish a local source of improved high yielding planting material.  It
would be extremely expensive and impractical to base a large scale rehabilita-
tion program on wholly imported material. The final decision as to the variety/
ies of coconut that would be recommended for large scale dissemination would
depend on the results of the variety trials proposed under this project. But
performance data in a number of coconut growing countries tend to indicate a
strbng possibility that a hybrid like the PB121, which has the Malaysian Dwarf
as one of the parents, could also be one of the main varieties suited for
Tanzania. Since the palms of the Dwarf variety take 3-4 years to start
flowering and therefore, available for production of hybrid seed nuts, early
planting of the dwarfs would be highly desirable.
4.14      A 100 ha seed garden 1/ would be established on Mafia Island where
climatic conditions are amongst the most favorable. Of the 100 ha, 80 ha
would be planted with Malaysian yellow and red Dwarfs,Cameroon red, Guinea
Equatorial green.and Sri Lanka green Dwarfs, (50:10:12:5:3 ha.), using imported
seed nuts. These mother palms would be planted in a homogenous block isolated
(500 m) from other coconut palms. The male parents (20 ha) would be of the
E. African, W. African, Rennel and Tahiti Tall varieties and once the parent
has been selected, hybrids would be produced using assisted pollination. The
Talls will only come into flower and produce pollen in gradually increasing
quantities from about the 6th year. Additional pollen requirements could,
initially, be imported, so as not to delay production of hybrids if required.
4.15       It is estimated that 1 ha of Dwarf mother palms would produce
enough hybrid seed nuts to plant about 12 ha in year 5 but increasing to 48 ha
at maturity, i.e. 10 years of age. 80 ha would, therefore, enable 3,800 ha of
hybrids to be planted each year if so required, from the 10th year of estab-
lishing the seed garden. However, if only the Malaysian Yellow Dwarfs were to
be finally used then the 50 ha under this variety would allow about 2,400 ha
of hybrids to be planted each year. 2/
1/   To supplement the 50 ha unit proposed under the FRG project (para.
3.07(b)).
2/   Combined with the 30 ha of Malaysian Yellow under the FRG project the
total area plantable would be 3,800 ha.



- 19 -
Hybrid Seed Nut Production and Area
Plantable from 80 ha. Mother Palms
No. of Seed Nuts
Dwarfs    Seed Nuts    Per    Total          After        Plantable      Ratio
Pollinated  Harvested   Palm   Produced   Selection 2/    Area 3/   Dwarfs:Hyb.
(Yr) 1/        (Yr)               ( 000)        ( 000)          (Ha)          (Ha)
(Yr. 4)         (Yr. 5)    20        288          259            970        1:12
(Yr. 5)         (Yr. 6)    40        576          518          1,940        1:24
(Yr. 6)         (Yr. 7)    60        864          778          2,914        1:36
(Yr. 7)         (Yr. 8)    70      1,008          907          3,397        1:42
(Yr. 8)         (Yr. 9)    80      1,152        1,037          3,884        1:48
(Yr. 9)         (Yr. 10)   80      1,152        1,037          3 884        1:48
1/   Yr. 0 is year of planting.  Density 180 palms/ha (Dwarfs).
2/   Assumes 10% rejection of nuts.
3/   Assumes 267 nuts required per ha field planted.  Planting density
(Hybrids) 160 palms/ha plus 5% for infillings. Culling % - 30% in
beds, 10% in polybags.
4.16      The Project would provide for importation of seed nuts of Dwarf
varieties and their establishment and maintenance in the seed garden. The
management, and supervision of the garden would be done by the Plant Breeder
engaged under the FRG project to initiate a breeding program and a seed
multiplication unit (para. 3.07b). GOT would ensure that the land required
for the establishment of the seed garden would be available and this would be
a condition of disbursement against the seed garden component.
Soil Survey
4.17      A detailed soils map of the total coconut growing areas is presently
not available. Ad hoc hydrological studies have recently been carried out in
relation to specific Water Master Plan studies in the Tanga, Coast, Mtwara and
Lindi Regions.  A comprehensive knowledge of the potential of the coconut
areas is essential to guide both the proposed pilot project as well as future
projects. The Project would provide funds for engaging consultants to under-
take a soil and hydrological survey of the coconut areas with a view to (a)
selecting four sites of about 50 ha each, suitable for the varietal trials and
a site for the proposed 100 ha seed garden, and (b) preparing a land suitabil-
ity map for coconuts which would form the basis for selection of areas for
future coconut rehabilitation projects.
4.18      Within the four regions earmarked for the varietal trials, i.e.
Tanga, Coast, Mtwara/Lindi, Zanzibar, the Ministry of Agriculture would, with



- 20 -
the assistance of the consultants, select potential areas for the varietal
trial sites. The consultants would then, through field surveys, determine
exact locations of the sites. The selection of the sites would be based on
the following main criteria:
(i) the site would be as closely representative as possible
in terms of soils and topography, of the main coconut
growing areas in the region in which it is located.
(ii) the site would be accessible during all times of the year
and not subject to waterlogging or flooding for prolonged
periods of time. It does not necessarily have to be sited
on a main road but would as far as practicable, be located
near a town for ease of stationing staff.
(iii) the site would be such that a fairly homogenous, contiguous,
and relatively flat 50 ha. of land with soil suitable for
cultivation of coconuts would be available.
4.19      In order to save time, selection of the trial sites would be done
prior to Project start-up. Retroactive financing for engaging the consultants
is provided (para 4.33). The selection of the trial sites, in consultation
with IDA, is a condition of Project effectiveness.
4.20      The preparation of the land suitability map for coconuts would be
done over a longer period but in time for the information to be available
for the preparation of the Coconut Master Plan (para. 3.08). Information
on soils, hydrology, climate, present land use, agronomic requirements of
the coconut palm, local experience etc. would contribute towards the prepa-
ration of the map which would indicate area potential, and suitability for
coconuts.
Technical Assistance
4.21      An experienced Coconut agronomist and a Plantation Manager would
be recruited internationally for the full Project period. The Agronomist
would have overall responsibility for planning and implementing the Varietal
trials as well as assist the Plantation Manager in the planning of the Main-
tenance and Rehabilitation trials and interpretation of results. The Planta-
tion Manager would be responsible for the implementation of the Maintenance
and Rehabilitation trials.  Both the Agronomist and the Plantation Manager
would also be responsible for on-the-job training, of Tanzanian agronomists
and Assistant plantation managers assigned to the Project.
4.22      The Coconut agronomist would have four Tanzanian agricultural staff
(minimum Diploma level) who would assist in the implementation of the trial
program. The local staff would be stationed in the vicinity of the trial
sites and provide the day-to-day supervision of the trials.



- 21 -
4.23      The Plantation Manager would be assisted by four local staff
(minimum Diploma level) in Zanzibar and the existing station managers at
the Chembezi Station and the Zegereni State Farm.
4.24      Assurances were obtained that the expatriate staff to be
appointed would have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to IDA. The appointment of the Coconut Agronomist
to the Project is a condition of Project effectiveness. The appointment of
the Plantation Manager is a condition of disbursement for the Improved
maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials Component of the Project.
Training
4.25      The Project would provide for the practical training of Tanzanian
staff in coconut husbandry, replanting and rehabilitation methods and planta-
tion management. This would include aspects related to seednut and seedling
selection, nursery methods and techniques, field preparation and planting,
fertilizers, weeding, pest and disease control, collection and compilation of
data. In addition to the on-the-job training (para 4.21) the Project would
also provide for training in coconut growing countries, e.g. Ivory Coast,
Sri Lanka, Malaysia, with a view to creating a core of local staff with some
experience and knowledge of coconut rehabilitation programs.
Short-Term Consultants and Laboratory Services
4.26      It is envisaged that additional expertise would be needed from time
to time to provide guidance or second opinions on specific aspects particu-
larly technical aspects, e.g. soil fertility, plant nutrition, plant diseases.
Six man-months of short-term consultancies would, therefore, be financed under
the Project. Assurances were obtained that the consultants to be employed
would have terms of reference, qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA. Also, to strengthen the cap-
ability of the Project staff to effectively carry out the various studies and
trials and to assist them in monitoring and evaluating crop responses, provi-
sion would be made for obtaining overseas laboratory services, e.g., for
foliar analysis, to supplement laboratory facilities and services available
within the country.
Feasibility Study for Phase II
4.27      Funds would be provided to enable the GOT to engage consultants to
assist in the preparation of a feasibility study for the next phase of the
Coconut Program as identified in the proposed Coconut Master Plan (3.08).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the consultants to be employed
would have terms of reference, qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA.



- 22 -
Project Management and Implementation Consultants
4.28      In view of the shortage of local staff with the necessary technical
expertise and experience to undertake the Pilot Project on a full time basis,
expatriate technical assistance would be needed to assist GOT in the manage-
ment and implementation of the Project. Also to ensure maximum cooperation
and coordination of activities of the two complementary projects, i.e. FRG
and IDA funded projects, it would be advantageous that the two projects be
managed and implemented by the same management team. GOT has formally
requested GTZ, which is implementing the FRG Project, to undertake the execu-
tion of proposed Pilot Project. GTZ has indicated strong interest in this
proposal.  Completion in a form satisfactory to IDA, of an agreement between
GOT and GTZ for the management and implementation of the Project, is a
condition of Project effectiveness.
C. Project Costs
4.29      The total costs of the Project would be Tsh 70.9 million (US$8.5
million), of which Tsh 53.1 million (US$6.4 million) (75 percent) represents
the foreign exchange costs. The Project costs do not include any local taxes
and duties. 1/ The phasing of Project costs are summarized in Table T-5 and
costs for each of the components are given in Table T-5a through T-5k. Project
costs are summarized below:
1/   The Project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 23 -
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Cost
(Tsh'O00)               (US$'000)            %         %
Varietal Trials       6,988  7,465   14,453    842    899    1,741    52           28
Improved Maintenance
& Rehabilitation
Trials                4,149 10,102   14,251    500  1,217    1,717    71           27
Seed Garden             702  3,031    3,733      85    365       450    81          7
Soil Survey               -  3,500    3,500       -    422       422   100          7
Technical
Assistance                -  8,000    8,000        -    964       964   100        15
Training                  -    600       600       -     72        72   100         1
Consultants & Over-
seas Laboratory
Services                  -    880       880      -    106        106   100         2
Phase II Feasibility
Study                     -    600       600       -     72        72   100         1
Project Management Fee   -  4,909    4,909         -    591      591   100          9
Total Base Cost   11,839 39,087   50,926  1,427  4,708    6,135    77          100
Physical Contingencies 993  2,248    3,241    120    271          391    69         6
Price Contingencies  4,755 11,996   16,751    573  1,445    2,018    71            33
Total Project Cost  17,587 53,331   70,918  2,120  6,424    8,544    75           138
4.30      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of prices prevailing
in March, 1980. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included on
all costs except manpower. Price contingencies on imported vehicles and
equipment, fertilizer and internationally recruited staff and consultants
have been included at annual rates of 10.5% in 1980/81, 9% in 1981/82, 8%
in 1982/83 and 7% thereafter. For local equipment, staff costs and other
expenditures price contingencies have been included at annual rates of 11%
in 1980/81, 10% in 1981/82 and 9% thereafter. For civil works, higher price
contingencies have been included at annual rate of 12% in 1980/81, reflecting
the pressure on construction industry capacity. Price contingencies total
30% of project base line costs.
4.31      Included in the costs is provision for two internationally recruited
staff (para 4.21) who would provide a total of 120 man-months of service to
the Project at an estimated total cost of Tsh 8.0 million (US$964,000). The
average cost per man-month (salary, travel, subsistence) is estimated at
Tsh 67,000 (US$8,000).



- 24 -
4.32      In addition, Project costs also provide for a total of 12 man-months
of short-term consultancies (paras 4.26, 4.27) at an estimated total cost of
Tsh 1.2 million (US$145,000). The average cost per man-month (salary, fee,
travel, subsistence) is estimated at Tsh 100,000 (US$12,000).
4.33      Provision has been made for consultants to be engaged to assist the
GOT identify and select suitable sites for the varietal trials and the seed
garden (para 4.17). To get the Project to an early start, it is important
that these sites be selected early. Retroactive financing of Tsh 1,245,000
(US$150,000) is therefore provided to enable this task to be completed
before Project start-up. Further, an advance of US$288,000 was granted in
May, 1980 to GOT through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for (a) pro-
curement of seednuts for the seed garden, (b) appointment of the coconut-
agronomist, (c) procurement of a vehicle for the agronomist, and (d) training
of local agronomists in coconut husbandry.
4.34      An estimated Project management fee for the Agency (GTZ) has 41so been
provi,ded for in the Project costs.  The fee is based on the following:  9% of
actual costs for procurement of equipment, machinery and imported seednuts
(i,n calculating the fee for the seednuts only the cost of the seednuts, excluding
freight charges, would be taken into account), and 15% of the amounts payable
tp expatriate staff and consultants. GTZ Headquarters costs and office costs
in the field have also been provided for.
D. Financing
4.35      The financing of Project costs would be as follows:
US$ million           %
IDA                                6.8               80
Government of Tanzania             1.7               20
8.5             100
4.36      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.2 million (US$6.8 million) would
be on standard terms to the Government of Tanzania and would cover all the
foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$6.4 million) and 19% of local
costs, or about 80% of total Project costs. Government of Tanzania would
finance the remaining US$1.7 million.
4.37      Credit funds to cover capital expenditures (Tsh 13.6 million includ-
ing contingencies) would be channeled by IDA to GTZ (agency responsible for
implementation of the Pilot Project (para 5.01) against suppliers invoices and
bills for services performed. GTZ's operating costs and fee (Tsh 6.7 million
including contingencies) would be reimbursed from IDA credit funds every six
months. Costs of engaging expatriate staff, consultants and use of overseas



- 25 -
laboratory services (Tsh 17.5 million) would be channeled by IDA to GTZ every
month against bills for services rendered. The remainder of the credit funds
and GOT contributions (Tsh 32.8 million) would be channeled by IDA and GOT to
GTZ against quarterly statements of expenditure. These terms and conditions
of this financing plan were agreed at negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Management
5.01      The Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) would be responsible for the
Project. To assist Kilimo in implementation of the Project, and in view of
of the fact that there is need for close cooperation and coordination of the
two Projects, i.e. FRG and IDA funded projects, GTZ would be contracted to
implement the Project. GTZ would be responsible for management, execution,
recruitment, procurement and reporting as related to the Project. The GTZ
Project Team Leader would also assume the overall role of Project Manager
and would report directly to the Director, Crop Production, Kilimo (Chart C-1).
5.02      The Project Manager would be assisted in the detailed planning and
execution of the plans by the internationally recruited Coconut Agronomist
and Plantation Manager (para 4.21). He would, as part of his activities also
draw up a training program for the local staff and ensure its implementation.
Separate Project accounts would be maintained and audited accounts submitted
to IDA (para 5.08).
5.03      The implementation of the Project is scheduled as shown in Chart C-2.
B. Procurement
5.04      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines, specifically:
(a)  orders for new vehicles and spare parts and tractors, attach-
ments and spare parts (US$0.7 million) would be bulked as far
as practicable and orders of US$100,000 and above would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) from
suppliers who maintain (or agree to maintain) in Tanzania ade-
quate after-sales service and inventory of spare parts;
(b)  orders for vehicles, tractors, and equipment below US$100,000
would be procured in accordance with existing local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory; however, these orders
would not exceed US$100,000 in aggregate;
(c)  orders for farm tools (US$14,000), office equipment (US$27,000),
pump sets and barbed wire fencing (US$25,000) would be bulked to
the maximum extent possible, and would be procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory;



- 26 -
(d) contracts for the construction of office, store and garage
at each of the varietal trial sites (US$128,000) would be
too small and scattered to attract international interest.
Procurement would, therefore, be by contracts awarded
following local competitive bidding procedures;
(e) different varieties of coconuts for the varietal trials
and seed garden (US$0.7 million including air freight)
can only be procured either from Ivory Coast or from 2-3
countries in Asia. Procurement would, therefore, be on
the basis of the availability of varieties required,
price and freight cost; seed nuts of the local variety
(US$0.3 million) would be procured from individual
farmers using local procedures which are satisfactory.
(f) Fertilizer (US$0.9 million) would be procured using local
procedures which are satisfactory.
5.05      Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess
of US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before bid invitations
are issued, and bid analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted
to IDA for comment before contracts would be awarded. In the evaluation of
bids for (a) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be accorded a
preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures
outlined above would be followed.
C. Disbursement
5.06      Disbursement of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign and 85% of local costs of vehicles, tractors
and attachment and spare parts [SDR 0.5 million (US$0.7 mil-
lion)].
(b) 100% of foreign costs of imported seed nuts required for
the varietal trials and seed garden [SDR 0.5 million
(US$0.7 million)].
(c) 95% of the costs of construction of office, store and
garage at each of the varietal trial sites, office equip-
ment, pump sets and wells, barbed wire and miscellaneous
tools ISDR 0.2 million (US$0.2 million)].
(d) 100% of the costs of technical assistance, consultants'
services and training [SDR 2.2 million (US$2.9 million)].
(e) 100% of foreign and 85% of local costs of fertilizers
[SDR 0.7 million (US$0.9 million)].



- 27 -
(f) 100% of the costs of locally procured seed nuts for the
nurseries [SDR 0.2 million (US$0.3 million)].
(g) an unallocated amount of SDR 0.9 million (US$1.2 million)
representing contingencies on items (a) to (f), and trans-
ferrable to them as required.
5.07      All disbursements under (a), (b), (c) (d) and (e) would be fully
documented. Disbursement against (f) would be on the basis of statements
of expenditure signed by the Project Manager. Funds remaining in the Credit
at Project completion would be cancelled, unless otherwise agreed by IDA.
A schedule showing the estimated pattern of disbursements under the Project
is at Table T-4.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.08      Separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would
be kept by GTZ. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that
such audited accounts would be submitted to GOT and IDA within six months of
the end of each financial year. The auditors would specifically review and
comment on the procedures used for control of disbursement against statements
of expenditure.
E. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09      Detailed quarterly reports of physical implementation and the use
of funds together with technical progress and evaluation reports (para 5.10)
would be submitted by the Project Manager to Kilimo and to IDA. Particular
attention would be paid in these reports to:
(a) the progress of the coconut trials component, in terms of the
establishment of the trials, nurseries, and seed garden, pro-
curement of imported and local coconuts, construction of
offices, stores and garages, procurement of tractors and
vehicles, etc.;
(b) the progress of the survey component, in terms of engagement
of consultants and preparation of reports and maps;
(c) the progress in allocating staff to various components of
the project;
(d) training local staff.
5.10      During the course of implementation the Project Manager, would
coordinate the compilation of the technical progress and evaluation reports
of the Coconut Agronomist, the Plantation Manager and the Plant Breeder (FRG
funded but responsible for the seed garden component). These reports would
be incorporated in the Quarterly Progress reports.



- 28 -
5.11      An integral part of improving the management and implementation
practices of the Project would be the monitoring and evaluation activities.
PPMB would monitor and evaluate all Project activities and at the end of
each year submit to Kilimo and IDA a report of its findings. PPMB would
also assist in the preparation of the feasibility study (para. 4.27) for the
next phase of the Coconut Program.
5.12      Within six months of the completion of disbursements, Kilimo, together
with GTZ, would prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report, analyzing
the implementation of the Project and its impact in relation to its objectives.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS
6.01      The proposed Project would constitute the preparation stage in a long
term development program of major importance to the population in the coastal
regions of mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar in particular, and to the country as
a whole in general. The principal objective is to provide a sound basis for
the rational development of the coconut industry. The individual components
of the Project are expected to result in (a) the development of an integrated
technical package which could subsequently be applied to the extensive coconut
areas and arrest and reverse the decline in coconut production; (b) the devel-
opment of information related to suitability of areas for coconut cultivation
which would be invaluable in planning for subsequent rehabilitation and devel-
opment phases; and (c) the development of a core of Tanzanian personnel with
experience and expertise in coconut husbandry and rehabilitation techniques.
The Project also provides, within the scope of these activities, opportunity
to test and develop approaches to farmer participation.
6.02      The full impact of the proposed Project would only be felt when the
research results are applied on an extensive basis in subsequent phases. The
benefits of the Project cannot, therefore, be quantified since the activities
included are essentially technology development activities. There is some
risk of delays in implementation since seed nuts for the varietal trials have
to be obtained from other coconut growing countries and this involves coordi-
nation of seed nut production and shipment of the nuts. The prospects for
successful implementation of the Project components are favorable, particu-
larly since the management and implementation of the Project would be con-
tracted out to the German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ).
6.03      The development of a technical package needed to rehabilitate
Tanzania-s coconut industry and its impact on supply from future development
phases could be expected some time after 1985 when improved techniques
applied to the existing 125,000 ha of coconuts would result in estimated
production increases of about 90-100 million nuts annually. Increased pro-
duction from new plantings could only be expected after year 1990. Assuming
that during a first 5-year phase of a production project 5,000 ha would be
planted with hybrids, they are estimated to produce about 88 million nuts
annually.



- 29 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) GOT would ensure that eight tractors are allocated to the
Project in Zanzibar (para 4.10);
(b) the expatriate staff to be appointed shall have qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.24);
(c) Consultants employed under the Project would have qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.26,4.27);
(d) the financing of Project costs, procurement, and reporting
procedures, would be followed as outlined (paras 4.35-4.37;
5.04-5.05; 5.09-5.11);
(e) within six months of the completion of disbursements Kilimo
together with GTZ, would prepare and submit to IDA a Project
Completion Report (para 5.12);
(f) separate accounts relating to Project expenditures would be
kept by GTZ, on behalf of Kilimo, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of each financial year (para 5.08).
7.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) selection, in consultation with IDA, of sites for the varietal
trials and the seed garden (para 4.19);
(b) appointment of the internationally recruited Coconut
Agronomist.
(c) appointment of management consultants for the implementation
of the project (para 4.28).
7.03      Conditions of Disbursement:
(a) It would be a condition of disbursement against the funds
for the seed garden that land suitable for the purpose
is made available (para 4.16);



- 30 -
(b) it would be a condition of disbursement against the funds
for the improved maintenance and rehabilitation trials
component, that the Plantation Manager had been appointed
(para 4.24).
7.04      The above assurances having been obtained, the proposed Pilot Proj-
ect would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 5.2 million
(US$6.8 million) on standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.



Chart C-1
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1980/81                     1981/82                     1982/83                      1983/84                      1984/85                      1985/86
Component   -Q1    02                     03    Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3    04    Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4    Q1    Q2    03    Q4    01    Q2    Q3    Q4    Q01    Q2    03    Q4
1  Varietal Trials                           * a                                                                                                                =
2   Improved Maintenance and                ml       __i
Rehabilitation Trials
3.  Seed Garden                                      _      ___i
4.  Soil Survey-                                                                                              --
5. Technical Assistance             OMNIm    _                                                                                     _ 
6. Trainingm - -m- - m - - m - - - --- -
7. Short-Term Consultants and                      -         _  _             -  a    *                      -  _     _        -  _              -_-                  -         -
Laboratory Services
8.  Feasibility Study Phase II
9.  Management and Implementation                    -                                                        _             _                            _ -                                 _
Consultants                                                                                                                   =7 
|                                     -_             Project Period                                                                                       -      -
IIIIaeePlanning/Procurement
_m      mplementation
* _ * Implementation as and when required                                                                                                                                                     World Bank - 21486






Chart C-2
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
[DIRECTOR, CROP PRODUCTION
PROJECTMANAGER (GTZ)
Coconut Agronomist |
,                                                                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plant Breeder (GTZ)
L                    J
Agronomist          Agronomist           Agronomist          Agronomist
(Tanga Region       (Coast Region)       (Mtwara/Lindi          (Zanzibar)
Trial Site          Trial Site       Region) Trial Site       Trial Site
[Plantation Manager
Manager                  Manager            Assistant Managers (4)
(Chambezi Station)       (Zegereni State Frm)     (Zanzibar Government
e n ePlantations)
World Bank - 21485






- 33 -
Table T-1
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Export of Coconut Products
Product-
Copra              Coconut Oil                Copra cake
Year   Quantiy      Value    Quantity  Value    I Quantity  Value         Total
(t)     (1000 Sh)    (t)       (1000 Sh)   (t)      (1000 Sh)  Value
1969     16,325   18,953      4,700      11,000        n.a.       n.a.    29,953
1970      9,625   12,060      6,955      21,966        n.a.       n.a.    34,026
1971      5,090    6,902      5,097      13,904      4,620      2,478     25,284
1972      1,396    2,031      3,032       8,259      5,380      2,734     13.033
1973      6,597   10,984      3,207       9,622      4,811      3,756     24,362
1974      2,326    4,736      4,832      16,795      4,623      3,001     24,332
1975        366       616     2,855      13,335        n.a.       n.a.    13,951
1976        -         --        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
1977        (197  Imports (of Copra a d Coconut Oil)
Course:   FAO/UNDP: The Current State ...... Jan 1976,Annex 7 and
Ministry of Agriculture: Price  Policy...., Annex ll,p.30



TANZANIA
Table T-2
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Illustrative Hectare Budget (Mature Coconuts)
Nuts---------------                       - -- Copra-- --_-- -----
Production                      Traditional      Imported      Hybrid      Traditional      Imported      Hybrid
(E.A. Tall)    (E.A. Tall)   (PB121)       (E.A. Tall)    (E.A. Tall)   (PB121)
Yield 1/                           1,400           8,580       17,600            234          1,433        3,942
Producer Price (Tsh)                 0.7             0.7          0.7            2.5             2.5         2.5
Gross Return (Tsh)                   980           6,006-      12,320            585           3,583       9,855
Cost (Tsh)
Establishment 2/                      -              378          412             -              378         412
Seasonal (fertilizer)                 -            1,287        I                 _           1,287        1,440
Total Costs                           -            1,665        1,852             _            1,665       1,852
Net Return (Tsh)                     980           4,341       10,468            585           1,918       8,003
Labor Man-days.                       28              70           88             31              82          112
Net Returns per man-day 3/ (Tsh)      35              62          119             19              23           71
1/  Traditional:  Nuts - 20 nuts/palm/yr; 70 bearing palms/ha.
Copra - 167 g. per nut.
Improved:     Nuts - 60 nuts/palm/yr; 143 palms/ha.
Copra - 167 g. per nut.
Hybrid:       Nuts - 110 nuts/palm/yr; 160 palms/ha.
Copra - 224 g. per nut.
2/  Establishment costs (excluding farmers own labor) incurred in years 1-6 for E.A. Tall (Tsh 4,500) and
years 1-4 for hybrid  (Tsh 4,900) have been amortised assuming 8% interest for the Deriod 10-SO Vears
when the palms are in full production.
3/  MDB estimates for returns per man-day   for cashew, cassava and maize are Tsh 8.0, Tsh 6.0 and Tsh 8.0,
respectively.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aI



Table T-3
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Ecological Data
Tanga (airfield). Average on 27 years.
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.   May    June    July    Aug.   Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.      Year
Average rainfall in m/m      27.8   32.9   98.1  238.9  270.8  74.6   67.2   69.5  84.3  101.7'  138.0    71.9    1,275.7
Mean maxi. to (Co)           31.9   32.8   32.8   3.8   29.5  29.0   28.2   28.2  28.8   29.7   30.8    31.7                  30.3
Mean mini, to (CO)           23.6   23.7   23.8   23.3   2202   20.8   20.1   19.8  20.2   21.3   22.6    23.3                 22.1
Bagamoyo Average on 66 years.
Average rainfall in m/r      82.4   67.9  107.4  239.9  185.4  41.8   32.5    29.5  27.4   45.3   77.7  108.0    1,045.2
Mean maxi. to (CO)           32.1   32.2   32.1   31.5   30.6  30.3   29.6   29.2  29.3   3o.6   31.6    31.9                  30,9
Mean mini. to (C0)           24.7   24.4   24.0   23.1   22,O   20.3   19.2   19.4  19.9   20.7   22.7    24.2                 22.1
Dar es Salaam Average on 23 years.
Average rainfall in m/m      71.8   68.5  140.0  274.9  156.4  32.6   32.4   25.1  27.5   57.3  106.7    97.0    1,093.8
Mean maxi. to (C)           31.5   32.0   32.2   30.6   29.8  29.2   28.7   29.3  30.0   30.8   31.1    31.5                  30.5
Mean mini. to (C0)           23.5   23.3   22.9   22.5   21.1  19.2   18.5   18.2  18.6   19.9   21.6    23.0                  21.0       1
Mean sunshine hours           7.8     8.0     7.0     5.2     7.1   7.6      7.6     8.5    8.5     8.9     8.6     8.4         7.8       W
Total sunshine              241.8  224      217    156      220.1  228     235.6  263.5  255      275.9  258      260.4    2,835.3
Lindi Average on 34 years.
Average rainfall in m/m     138.2  122.4  167.1  175.5   38.4  11.1    9.6           7.6  12.1   16.6   51.8  132.6           883.0
Mean maxi. to (Co)           30.9   31.3   31.3   30.9   30.6  30.2   29.9   29.8  29.5   29.9   30.9   31.3                   30.5
Mean mini. to (C0)           23.7   23.4   23.2   27.8   21.3  19.3   18.8   19.2  20.1   21.6   23.2    23.7                  21.7
Mtwara  Average on 25 years.
Average rainfall in m/m     214.5  184.3  189.6  190.0   48.o  13.0   15.5           9.8   36.7   24.1   44.2  176.1   1,145.8
Mean maxi.t0 (C)            30.2   30.4   30.9   30.7   30.1  29.3   29.1   29.6  29.9   30.4   31.2    30.8                  30.2
Mean mini. to (C)           23.3   23.1   22.7   22.3   20.7  19.1   18.6   18.6  19.0   20.4   22.1    23.3                  21.1
Zanzibar Average on 17 years.
Average rainfall in m/m      72     72    135       397     247    64       48      42    42       98     212     120      1,579
Mean maxi. to (CO)           30.5    33.5    32.5    30.0    30.0  28.5    29.0    28.5   30.0    30.5    31.5    31.5        30.5
Mean mini. to (Co)          20.0    21.0    19.5    20.5    20.0  18.S    17.5    17.0   17.0    18.5    19.5    20.5         19.2



- 36 -                            Table T-4
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
('000)
IDA Fiscal Year              Quarterly                      Cumulative
and Quarter              Disbursements                  Disbursements
1980/81
September 30, 1980          -
December 31, 1980           -                               -
March 31, 1981             600                             600
June 30, 1981              400                           1,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981         400                           1,400
December 31, 1981          300                           1,700
March 31, 1982             300                           2,000
June 30, 1982              300                           2,300
1982/83
September 30, 1982         300                           2,600
December 31, 1982          300                           2,900
March 31, 1983             300                           3,200
June 30, 1983              300                           3,500
1983/84
September 30, 1983         300                           3,800
December 31, 1983          300                           4,100
March 31, 1984             400                           4,500
June 30, 1984              400                           4,900
1984/1985
September 30, 1984         300                           5,200
December 31, 1984          300                           5,500
March 31, 1985             300                           5,800
June 30, 1985              300                           6,100
1985/86
September 30, 1985         200                           6,300
December 31, 1985          200                           6,500
March 31, 1986             150                           6,650
June 30, 1986              150                           6,800
1/ This schedule assumes that the credit would become effective in
December 1980 and would close on June 30, 1986.



Table T-5
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(Tsh 000)
Base    Foreign       Foreign
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5       Year 6                 Cost    Exchange    Exchange
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    Total             %          %          Total
Varietal Trials                                                 7,146       1,597       1,596       1,621       1,639         854      14.453      28        57           7,465
Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials
Chambezi                                                       453         217         217         217         217          62       1,383       3        76           1,050       ,
Zegereni                                                       407         163         172         i'78        187          54       1,161       2        75             870
Zanzibar                                                     2,111       2,706       2,137       2,117       2,117         519      11,707      21        70           8,182
Sub-Total for Improved Maint. & Rehab. Trials          2,971       3,086       2,526       2,512       2,521         635      14,251      27        71          10,102
Seed Garden                                                     3,254         166          72          99         114          28       3,733       7        81           3,031
Soil Survey                                                     1,245                   1,120       1,135                               3,500       6       100           3,500
Technical Assistance                                            1,200       1,600       1,600       1,600       1,600        400         8,000      15      100           8,000
Training                                                          200                     200         200                                  600      1       100              600
Consultants and Overseas Laboratory Services                      142         156         156         156         156        114           880      2       100              880
Phase II Feasibility Study                                                                            600                                 600       1       100              600
Project Management Fee                                            985         856         998       1,086         771        213        4,909       9       100           4,909
Base Cost                                                      17,143       7,461       8,268     ' 9,009,      6,801      2,244       50,926    100         76          *39,087
Contingencies - Physical                                                                                                                3,241       6        69            2,248
- Price                                                                                                                 16,751      33        71          11,996
TOTAL COST                                                                                                                    7918    1319   7 _                53.331



Table T-5a
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Varietal Trials
(Tsh' 000)
Foreign        Foreign
Unit                  Year 1         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                     Bhange         Exchange
Cost                  1980/81        1981/82      1982/83        1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       Total       _    _           Total
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Tractor                                      175              (4)     700                                                                                  700         90               630
Tractor Trailer                               25              (4)     100                                                                                  100         90                90
Roller, Slasher, Disc. Harrow & Tools         55              (4)     220                                                                                  220         90               198
Vehicle - 4-Wheel Drive                      105              (4)     420                                                                                  420         96               378
Motor Cycle                                   15              (4)      60                                                                                   60         90                54
Lorry - 7 Tons                               145                               (3)  435                                                                    435         90               392
Office, Store and Garage                     280              (4)   1,120                                                                                1,120
Office Equipment                              50              (4)     200                                                                                  200
Imported Coconuts (8,000)                    128             (4)      512                                                                                  512        100              512
Airfreight at Tsh 50 per kg                  600              (4)   2,400                                                                                2,400        100            2,400
Handling at Tsh 2/- Per unit                  16              (4)      64                                                                                   64
Pump Set and Well                             42              (4)     168                                                                                  168         80              134
Barbed Wire Fence                              5              (4)      20                                                                                 _20
TOTAL A                                                  5.984           435                                                                  6,419         75            4_788
B.  OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages
Sgronomist                               35   MSU  7   (4)       105           140           140           140           140            35            700
Field Assistant                          10   MSU  3   (4)        30            40            40            40            40            10            200
Tractor Driver                            8             (4)       24            32            32            32            32              8           160
Lorry Driver                              8                              (3)   18             24            24            24             6             96
Labour                                                           489           258           126           126           114            27         1,140
Sub-Total (a)                                               648          488            362           362           350            86         2,296
(b)  Other Operating Costs
Spares                                   -                      145             65            38            38            38            48           372          95              353
Tractor, Trailer, etc.                   60             (4)      180           240           240           240           240             60         1,200         80              960
Vehicle - 4-Wheel Drive                  30             (4)       90           120           120           120           120             30           600         80              480
Lorry                                    50                              (3)  113            150           150           150            37            600         80              480
Motor Cycle                               5             (4)       15            20            20            20            20              5           100         80               80
Water Pump                               10             (4)       30            35   (3)      30                          30              8           163         80              130
Seed Nuts (60,000)                     180                                           (3)    540            540.          540           540         2,160
Office Supplies and Maintenance          15             (4)       45            60            60            60            60            15            300
Fertilizer                                                         9            21            36            61            91             25           243         80               194
Sub-Total (b)                                              514            674        1,234         1,259         1,289            768         5,738         47             2,67V
TOTAL B                                                   1,162         1.162        1596          162                            854         8 _ 34         33_
GRAND TOTAL A + B                                        7,146          1,597         11,596       1,621         1.639           854                                           5
Fertilizer Mixture   =  CAN  -  2 kg                            Rates
TSP  -  1 kg
MP   -  2 kg                                     Year 1 - 1/10 full rate             Year 4 - 3/5 full rate
Year 2 /3   "    "                 Year 5 - 4/5  "    "
-    Total:      5 kg                                    Year 3 -2/3                         Year 6 - Full rate, i.e. 5 kg/palm.



Table T-Sb
TANZANIA
COCONUT PTLOT PROJECT
Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials - Chambezi
(Tsh'000)(T
Foreign    Foreir-
Unit                 Year 1         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5         Year 6                       Exchange   Exchai,-,e
Cost                 1980/81        1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85        1985/86       Total             %         Total
A.  CAPITAL. COSTS
Tractor                                            175                    175                                                                                  175             90         158
Tractor-Trailer                                     25                     25                                                                                   25             90          23
Roller, Slasher, Disc. Harrow & Tools               55                     55                                                                                   55            90           50
Motor Cycle                                         15                     15                                                                                   15             90          13
TOTAL A                                                        270                                                                                  270             90         24
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages
Tractor Driver                                                         6            8             8             8              8            2              40
Labour                                                                11           15            15            15             15            4              75
Sub-Total (a)                                                   17           23             23            23            23             6            115
(b)  Other Operating Costs
Spares                                                               24             4             4             4              4            8             48             95          46
Tractor, Trailer, etc.                                                45           60            60             60            60           15             300            80         240
Motor Cycle                                                            4            5             5              5             5            1              25            80          20
Fertilizer                                                            93          125           125           125            125           32             625            80         5DQ
Sub-Total (b)                                                  166          194            194           194           194            56            998             81         806
TOTAL B                                                        183          217            217           217            217           62          1,113
GRAND TOTAL A 4 B                                              453           217           217           217           217            62          1,383             76



TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT                                                                      Table T-5c
Improved M4aiLtenance and Rehabilitation Triald  - Zeyerenl
(T.shI 000)o
Foreign      Foreign
Unit                  Year 1        Ydar 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5        Year 6                       Exchange    Exchange
Cost                  1980/81       1981/82        1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86        Total        _     _        Total
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
Tractor                                            175                     175                                                                                     175           90           158
Tractor-Trailer                                     25                      25                                                                                      25           90            23
Roller, Slasher, Disc. Harrow & Tools               55                      55                                                                                      55           90            50
Motor Cycle                                         15                      15                                                                                      15           go            13
TOTAL A                                                        270                                                                                    270            90           244
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages
Tractor Driver                                                          6             8              8             8              8              2            40
Labour                                                                 13            18             18            14             12              3            78                                 *
Sub-Total (a)                                                   19             26            26             22            20              5           118
(b) Other Operating Costs
Spares                                                                 24             4              4             4              4              8            48            95           46
Tractor, Trailer, etc.                                                 45            60             60            60             60            15            300            80           240
Motor Cycle                                                             4              5             5              5             5              1            25            80            2b
Fertilizer                                                             45            68             77            87             28            25            400            80          320
Sub-Total (b)                                                  118            137           146            156           167             49            773           81           626
TOTAJ. B                                                       137            163           172            178           187             54            891            70          626
GR8A21 TOTAL A + B                                             407            163           172            178            187            54          1 161            7S          870
~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               I1 171L



TANZANIA
Table T-Sd
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials - Zansibar
(Tsh'000)
Foreign       Foreign
Unit               Year 1         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5        Year 6                     Exchange       Exchange
Cost               1980/81        1981/82       1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86        Total          %             Total
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Tractor Trailer                                      25           (6)     150  (6)       150                                                                     300         go             270
Roller, Slasher, Fertilizer  Spreader & Tools    55               (4)     220  (4)       220                                                                     440         90             396
Vehicle - 4-Wheel Drive                             105                    105                                                                                   105          90             95
Motor Cycle                                          15           (4)       60                                                                                    60         90              54
Miscellaneous Tools                                                         40            40            20                                                       100         90              go
TOTAL A                                                         575           410            20                                                     1,005         90             905
B.  OPERATTNG COSTS
(a)  Salaries and Wages
Assistant Plantation Manager                    35          (4)      105           140            140           140           140             35           700           -             -
Tractor lDriver                                  8           (4)      24  (8)       64             64            64             64            16            296
Labour                                                               108           144            144           144           144             36            720          -              -
i,r-Total (a)                                                  237           34f8          348            348           348             87         1,716           -             -
(b)  rther Operating Cost.s
Spares                                           -                   182           219             40            40            40             61           582          95            553
Tractor, Trailer, etc.                          60           (4)     180  (8)       480           480           480            480            60          2,160         80           1,728
Extra Trailer                                    1           (2)       2  (4)         4             4             4              4             1             19         80              16
VeF. cle - 4-Wheel Drive                        30                    24             30            30             30            30             6            150         80             120
Motor Cycle                                      5           (4)       15            20            20             20            20              5           100         80              80
Fertilizer                                                           896         1,195         1,195          1,195         1,195            299         5,975          80          4.780
Sub-Total (b)                                                 1,299         1,948         1,769          1,769         1,769            432         8,986          81          7,274
TOTAL TI                                                      1,536         2,296         2,117          2,117         2 117            519       10,702           68          7,277
GRAND TOTAL A l B                                             2,111         2,766         2,137          2,117         2,117            519       11,707           70          8 182
Note: Tractors (8) would. be provided by the Government.



TANZANSIA                                                                 Table T-5e
COCONUT PTLOT PROJECT
Seed Garden
TTsh'O00)
Foreign   roreign
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3         Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                   Exchange  Exchange
1980/81       1981/82      1952/83        1983/84       1934/85       1985/86       Total      _           Total
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
Imported Seed Nuts (31,000)                                                  496                                                                               496         100        496
Airfreight at 'Tsh 50 per kg                                               2,325                                                                             2,325          100     2,325
Handling at Tsh   per unit                                                    62                                                                                62
2,8S31                                                                            2,883          98      282
B.  OPERATING COSTS
(a)  Salaries and Wages
Labour                                                                  332           133            29            30            20             3         547
(b)  Other Operating Costs
Fertilizer                                                                9            23            43            69            94            25         263          80       210
Nursery Costs                                                            30            10                                                                  40
Sub-Total (b)                                                      39            33            43            69             94            25         303          67       210
TOTAL B                                                           371           166            '72            99           114            28         850          24       210
GRAND TOTAL A + B                                               3,254           166             72            99           114            28      _.3            -&L    3,l



Table T-5f
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Soil Survey
(Tsh' 000)
Foreign   Foreign
Year 1       Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                  Exchange  Exchange
1980/81      1981/82       1982/83        1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       Total        %        Total
Consultants Fee for Selection of Varietal Trial Sites                               1,245                                                                              1,245       100       1,945
Consultants Fee for Coconut Land Suitability Map Preparation                                                    1.120         1.135                                    2.255       100       2.?2
Total                                                                        1.245                       1.120         1.135                                   3,500        100       3.500



Table T-5g
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(Tsh' 000)
Foreign    Foreign
Unit                   Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Year 6                Exchange   Exchange
Cost       Grade       1980/81     1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    Total                %         Total
Coconut Agronomist                                -          -              600         800         800                      800         200      4,000        100        4,000
Plantation Manager                                -          _             600          800         800        800           800         200      4,000        100        4,000
TOTAL                                                         1,200       1,600        1,600      1,600         1600          400      8.000       100         8000



TANZANIA                                                               Table T-5h
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Training
(Tsh'OOO)
Foreign    Foreign
Unit                  Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                   Exchange   Exchange
Cost                  1980/81       1981/82      1982/83       1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       Total         %         Total
Tanzaniian Agronomists                              50            (4)       200                (4)     200   (4)    ZOO                                        600       100        60
TOTAL                                                            200                         200                                                    600       100         600



Table T-5i
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Consultants and Overseas Laboratory Services
(Tshs'000)
Foreign      Foreign
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                  Exchange    Exchange
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       Total    ____           Total
Short-Term Consultaiits ( 6 rn-months)                                       100           100           100           lo0           100           100           600       100          600
Laboratory Services Otside Tanzania.                                         42            56            56            56            56            14            280       100          280
TOI'AL                                                            342           __            156           156            5             11            RRO       100          R80



Table T-5i
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Phase II Feasibility Study
(Tsh'000)
Foreign      Foreign
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6                  Exchange    Exchange
1980/81       1981/82      1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       Total    ___            Total
Short-Term Consultants (6 man-months)                                                                                               600                        600        100          600
TOTAL                                                                                                                     600                        6oo        100          600



TANZANIA                                                          Table T-5k
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Project Management Fee
(Tsh8 000)
Foreign        Foreign
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6                   Exchange       Exchange
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      Total          %            Total
Procurement:
Tractors, Trailers, etc.                  152           29                                                              181
Motor Cycles                                12                                                                           12
Four-Wheel Drive                            42                                                                           42
Miscellaneous Tools                          3            3           2                                                   8
Lorries                                                 35                                                               35
Imported Coconuts                          91                                                                            91
Spare Parts                                34           26            8           8            8           11            95
Expatriate Staff Salaries                 180          240          240         240          240           60         1,200                                           C
Consultants                                96           23          248         338           23           17           745
Field Office Costs - (Part)               225          300          300         300          300           75         1,500
CTZ Headquarters Back-up                  150          200          200         200          200           50                        - 500        _
TOTAL                           985         856          998       1,086          771          213         4,909         100           4,909



I B R D 14814R1
u          __       APRitL 1980
.UGANODA  |  |
5OMALA
- \   0    0   :KENYA
S  > , ;     ;               -:                         C     T A N ~~~~~~~~~~~Z A N I A 
AS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~WNA .~               X                     N.           ap
ZABAZAI
\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z A  I  E                                              0              iwZSoD*, e 50
s~~~~~~                           ~ ~~~~~ Mw 1y'  -  -                                ers
MOZAMH7G)E
8   %   \   gOMBRsASA   TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Main roads
Secondary roads
\      Mlingrn o         wek                     -    Rivers
_0 AN--                                     Railways
SEMrA ISsANvc     International aQrports
')-  Scheduled service airports
Reqionol boundaries
_    -Internaionul boundaries
Xf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I eA   SLAND
halinze  Zeren  >K nduchi 
~~~~~~~~~~~~Dar es Safcorn
FKI osaMttOGO  -
i/                    /  |      M~~~~~~~~~AFIA ISLANID
,    _   0    20   4D, i60    80   100  120  140   160
_ 20                05.\ J * rLOMETERS
0        20       40   , 0           80        00
M,        Kitte Kivinje   e    -*--          -                ree 
/   1  <                        <                  /}\/D/g~~~~~~~~I OI  N   OCCA N
X   Llwraleg_         <           t_  QF                                  .~~~~~~~~war
T. S."..e rasr si f                                                               A e th
M  ZAM;f3fQUE                            
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ohee ee,etes. sr se regA crAt Of as'



