D,w ofFILE COPY
The World Bank
MOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2878-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
September 18, 1980
This dscument hm a restited dib.bIm mmd my be md by recpiets ady in the pedformnce of
their offia di"s. its emtms my *t ohrwwbe be dibucedd wIdo Word Bek authorIatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Tsh 1.0                  =   US$0.12
US$1.00                  =   Tsh 8.30
US$1.00                      SDR 0.755068
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket
of the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to Tsh 8.30 which is close to the 1979 average
exchange rate. The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that
of June 30, 1980.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                       British/US Equivalent
I hectare (ha)                =   2.47 acres
I kilogram (kg)               =   2.20 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FRG       -  Federal Republic of Germany
GOT       -  Government of Tanzania
GTZ       -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
MOA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
PPMB      -  Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of the
Ministry of Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
Government           -    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:            SDR 5.2 million (US$6.8 million) equivalent
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:    The proposed project would, over a five year period, prepare
a firm base for the rehabilitation of the coconut industry
in Tanzania. It would finance varietal trials and improved
maintenance and rehabilitation trials over an area of about
1,200 ha; a seed garden for the production of hybrid seed
nuts; soil and hydrological surveys; the preparation of a
feasibility study for the next phase of coconut development;
and technical assistance, consulting services, and training
of Tanzanian staff. The project faces few risks, although
the proposed implementation schedule is dependent on the
timely acquisition of seed nuts from other coconut growing
countries.
Estimated
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total 1/
------US$ Thousand-------
Varietal Trials                                 842        899      1,741
Improved Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Trials                        500     1,217       1,717
Seed Garden                                      85       365         450
Soil and Hydrological Surveys                    -        422         422
Technical Assistance, Consulting
Services and Training                          -      1,805       1,805
Sub-Total                         1,427      4,708      6,135
Physical Contingencies:                         120       271         391
Price Contingencies:                            573     1,445       2,018
Total Project Cost                            2,120     6,424       8,544
1/   The project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan                             Local   Foreign    Total
------US$ million-------
IDA                             .4       6.4       6.8       80
Government of Tanzania         1.7        -         1.7      20
Project cost                 2.1      6.4        8.5      100
Estimated
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year        1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
-------------US$ Million---------------
Annual            1.0      1.3    1.2    1.4    1.2    0.7
Cumulative        1.0      2.3    3.5    4.9    6.1    6.8
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 2906-TA dated August 14, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 5.2 million (US$6.8 million)
equivalent on standard terms to help finance adaptive research and development
work essential to the future rehabilitation of the coconut industry in
Tanzania. The proceeds of the credit would be made available to the Ministry
of Agriculture.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year,
based on the findings of two economic missions to Tanzania in March and June
1980. A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1979 of US$271. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 80% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at more than 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at
relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967, Tanzania has pursued a
socialist development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale
enterprises in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and
wholesale trade are under state control. There is extensive state inter-
vention in economic activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Second Technical Assistance Project dated July 17, 1980.



- 2 -
controls, price control, the reservation of some activities to the state or
cooperative sector, and detailed Government investment planning. The second
major feature of Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on
rural development and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequali-
ties in income    distribution.  This is reflected in ambitious Government
programs for the provision of rural water supplies, health services and
universal primary education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the period 1966-79, real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.7%, or about 1.7% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1979. 1/ During the
seventies the service sector was the fastest growing sector at 6.3% per year.
6.        Achieving and sustaining a high level of investment has been a major
element in Tanzania's development strategy. In line with this, and led by a
rapid expansion of public investments, the ratio of gross investment to GDP
rose to a peak of 26% in 1971 from around 15% in the mid-1960s. With the
completion of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA) in the early 1970s, this
ratio fell to 21% in 1973 and has remained close to that level since. Although
Tanzania has managed to sustain a high investment ratio, this success has not
been matched by a similar performance in the mobilization of domestic savings
or in the return on the investments undertaken. Domestic savings rose from
15% of GDP in 1966 to 17-18% in the early 1970s, fell to only 7-8% in 1974
and 1975, recovered to an average 15.7% in 1976 and 1977, but than fell to
an average of only 7.2% in 1978 and 1979. Estimates of the incremental
capital-output ratio (ICOR) show it increasing throughout the 1970s to a peak
of 5.3 in 1973 and then declining to between 3.0-4.1 from 1975 to 1978.
This improvement largely reflects the good performance of subsistence agri-
culture as recorded in the official statistics. For the monetary sector--
where all the public investment is concentrated and where the data on returns
are presumably more accurate--the ICOR has consistently been higher (around
5-7) and has shown no appreciable improvement during the 1970s.
7.        By 1978, the last year for which data are available, progress had
also been made in achieving the Government's objective of more equitable
income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975, the average urban rural gap
remained approximately constant, halting the trend towards an increasing gap
in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that this gap was slightly reduced
from 1976 to 1978 due to continued recovery of agricultural production and
higher producer prices. However, regional income differentials in rural areas
have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal urban sector there has been
1/   These figures, derived from the official National Accounts Statistics,
include very high estimates of growth in subsistence agriculture. More
realistic estimates of overall economic growth would probably be 1.0 to
1.5% lower.



- 3 -
a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential between the highest-
Daid government officials and minimum wage earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to
8 to 1 in 1975. In May 1980, minimum wages were increased by up to 40%,
decreasing this differential even further. However, a large informal sector
has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers
with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The poli-
cies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should
have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution, and
the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary education
(para. 4 above) are resulting in a redirection in public expenditures toward
the rural poor.
8.        Despite progress in external resource mobilization and income dis-
tribution, some major economic problems have begun to manifest themselves in
recent years. Exports have failed to keep pace with the growth of the rest
of the economy; the overall export index is down almost one-third since 1966.
This poor performance in exports is due to the poor growth rate of agricul-
tural cash crops. While official agricultural output estimates have increased
impressively in recent years (an average of 8.1% per annum from 1975 to 1979),
most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence sector; the
monetary economy, and especially the productive monetary sector, have lagged
well behind. This failure of export growth has led to increasing dependency
on foreign loans and grants to pay for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of domestic revenues. Recurrent revenues rose from 15% of GDP in
1967/68 to 22% in 1974/75, but since then have eroded steadily to 17.8%.
While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to most other developing countries,
Government revenues have been growing more slowly than GDP in recent years.
At the same time, recurrent expenditures have been higher than budgeted. As
a result, public sector savings have been well below expectations and the
Government has had to rely more upon borrowing (both foreign and local) and
external aid for financing development than was planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77, the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control of
imports. These policies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$130
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978, the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.



- 4 -
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October
1978, war broke out with Uganda nad the resulting imports of military equip-
ment and mobilization of resources required for the war effort put an increas-
ing strain on the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently,
the current account showed a deficit of more than US$600 million in 1978 and
the overall balance of payments was more than US$300 million in deficit. The
Government's foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was
forced to delay payment of about US$65 million in import bills.
12.       The situation continued to be bad in 1979.  The overall balance of
payments for 1979 is estimated at US$40 million in deficit, and arrears on
import payment were estimated at about US$160 million by the end of the year.
At the same time, the domestic budget deficit has increased substantially.
A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh 2.2 billion (US$265 million), was
recorded in FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the banking system was
TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major component in the increase in the money
supply of about 39%. In an effort to deal with the increasing balance of pay-
ments deficit, import licenses were reduced by almost 40% in real terms from
the 1978 level and the Government announced a 10% devaluation in January 1979.
In addition, the FY1979/80 budget called for a reduction in the level of
recurrent expenditure and borrowing from the banking system of TSh 1.67 bil-
lion; however, recurrent expenditures increased to TSh 9.1 billion (23% over
budget) as spending agencies, due to the lack of budgetary discipline, were
able to exceed their allocations. Government borrowing from the banking
system was again about TSh 3 billion, 83% above the planned amount. In
early 1979, the Government arranged for almost US$75 million in funds from the
IMF from a First Credit Tranche, the Trust Fund and the Export Compensatory
Fund, and negotiations for further assistance were completed in August 1980.
Agreement on a two-year program is scheduled to go to the IMF Board in mid-
September and is expected to provide up to US$260 million over two years.
The program agreed to with the IMF will provide a start for a comprehensive
program to deal with Tanzania's economic problems, but more work still needs
to be done to bring about a gradual improvement of the supply situation. The
Bank is working closely with the Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier-s credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt service burden
is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment and new borrow-
ings, including some on commercial terms, are required to meet the widening
balance of payments gap. This, together with the poor export prospects, could
raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20% during the 1980s.  In 1979, the Bank
held 13% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 30%) and
received 33% of Tanzania's debt service (37% for the Bank Group). We are
projecting this debt service share to fall to around 25% during the coming
decade.



- 5 -
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases,
a portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       Developments in the East African Community were outlined in a report
to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312). Dr. Victor
Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, has visited
East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports on the results
of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General Services,
and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities. In
late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments his proposals
for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their consideration.
The next step would be the start of negotiations among the three Governments
based on the mediators proposals. According to his terms of reference, the
mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a definitive settlement.
The mediators report and recommendations on the future structure of the East
African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted by the Partner States. The
revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty amending and re-enacting the new
Charter have been submitted to the three Governments for signature as soon as
they are constitutionally ready; this is expected shortly.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzanias budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 46 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$892.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in



- 6 -
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities. Nearly every
sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received some
attention. While this broad involvement in Tanzania's development efforts
will be continued, future work is expected to concentrate on three general
areas: (i) agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; and (iii) education.
As agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single sector in
the economy, it has received 30% of the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania.
The lending program in agriculture features three main types of projects. A
series of regional rural development projects are focusing on production but
also supporting the development of the regional infrastructure needed to
remove production constraints. The Kigoma Project (Credit No. 508-TA) was
the first of these, and similar projects have recently been approved for
Tabora (Credit No. 703-TA) and Mwanza/Shinyanga (Credit No. 803-TA) regions.
Another group of projects in agriculture are centred on particular promising
crops (such as maize, tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and are the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture or of one of its parastatals, and typically
support their capacity to provide support services for the sector. A third
set of projects is designed to improve general support services for the
agricultural sector. An example of this is the recently-approved Tanzania
Rural Development Bank Project (Credit No. 987-TA).
19.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications and education. Transportation diffi-
culties are continuously cited as critical constraints to development in
Tanzania. Indeed, the Governments inability to ensure the timely avail-
ability of inputs or the regular collection of crops has been a major bottle-
neck to increased production in the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during
the seventies transport investments were primarily concentrated around the
Tanzania-Zambia Corridor and since 1977 no systematic investment program has
been prepared for the subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations.
The major objectives of proposed Bank Group activities are therefore to
develop a more balanced investment program in transport and communications
and to provide institution-building assistance to the ministries and newly
established national corporations responsible for railways, ports and tele-
communications. Shortages in skilled manpower are also a worsening bottle-
neck to development. Bank Group involvement in education has supported both
specialized training and the development of the secondary education sector
to assist the Government in meeting its manpower needs.
20.       Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities. Those approved include a Pyrethrum Project
(Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No.
1015-TA), a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA), a Dar es Salaam Port



- 7 -
Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA) and a Seventh Education Project
C1 ;-  No. 1056-TA).  Projects which have been appraised include a rural
development project for Mara Region, a telecommunications project and a small
scale industries project.
21.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic regard-
ing Tanzania-s absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, which has triggered the Bank Group's expanded
efforts in education and training over the past five years. Other implemen-
tation problems reflect the difficulty of identifying agronomic input packages
appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers or result from the strains
associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on poverty. These problems
have been compounded by frequent and drastic administrative changes, which --
though potentially the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly disrupted
orderly execution of projects and made parts of earlier project concepts
obsolete. In addition, the Uganda war (para. 11) has had some impact on
project implementation. In the early stages of the war, there was some
diversion of equipment and manpower; however these problems have largely been
solved. The more serious problem over the medium term is the financial
implications of the war. If general economic problems resulting from the war
are not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds could become a
major constraint to implementation. In general, difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has been increasingly concentrated on this sector, these
problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast,
the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania
Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for
example, are proceeding well.
22.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. Courses on Bank Group procurement have been conducted in Dar es Salaam
for the relevant Government officials. A special project implementation unit
was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and 11 Agricultural Development
Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group financed projects in agricul-
ture and rural development. The need to establish a close and continuous
working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group
staff on implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for the expan-
sion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976. In
February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of project implementation
was established. Discussions on Bank Group financed projects chaired by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and attended by Bank Group staff and officials from
implementing agencies deal in detail with individual problem projects and
problems which are affecting project implementation across a number of
sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has been some improvement in
project implementation.



- 8 -
23.       The Government is very conscious of the importance of effective
implementation. In addition to supporting the project implementation review
system, the Government has assigned particular responsibility for the super-
vision of project performance to the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.
Furthermore, `here has been a general willingness to openly discuss project
problems raised by Bank staff. As a consequence, the disbursement records of
Bank Group financed projects have improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance
is about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing much of its
investment program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects,
more effectively than in the past.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND COCONUT SUBSECTOR
General Background
24.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Most agricultural production is from small-
holdings using family labour. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small
number of private estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar,
rice and livestock.  Estate production has diminished in importance since
Independence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania-s livestock
herd, which is the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the
40% of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely
managed along traditional lines.
25.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been dis-
appointing. During the seventies, subsistence production appears to have
barely kept pace with population growth. Indeed, early in the decade, food
production was very problematical and Tanzania became increasingly dependent
on imports of maize, rice and wheat. A severe drought in 1973 and 1974
resulted in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains. Following this,
the Government introduced a number of policies to increase food crop produc-
tion. Along with favorable weather conditions, these have had some effect
in stimulating food production. However, in the meantime, export crop pro-
duction has actually been declining (particularly in coffee, cotton, sisal
and cashewnuts) and sustained efforts will be required just to maintain
export earnings at current levels (see paragraph 8 above).
26.       The Government of Tanzania (GOT) has undertaken a wide-ranging
program to support the development of the agricultural sector in conjunction
with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable income
distribution. However, GOT has tended to concentrate its efforts on achieving
self-sufficiency in food production and has only recently begun to focus
attention on the expansion of export production. The proposed project would
assist the Government on both counts, as coconuts are both a major food item
in Tanzania's coastal regions and a potential source of foreign exchange.



-9-
Agricultural Services
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the overall
planning and monitoring of the sector as well as for coordinating agri-
cultural research, training and extension services, pricing policy, seed
multiplication and supervision of agricultural parastatals. Agricultural
research is undertaken by a wide variety of Government agencies and while MOA
has been given the responsibility for overall coordination, resources for
research have not always been allocated in accordance with development
priorities. Agricultural extension services are manned by staff trained by
MOA, but are under the control of the regional administrations or cash crop
authorities. The links between research and extension are weak, and field
staff are often poorly trained and inadequately supervised. A major review of
both the research and the extension systems has been undertaken, and the Bank
Group has made recommendations for basic improvements in these areas.
Credit for the rural sector is provided by the National Bank of Commerce,
which is the sole source of short-term credit for marketing parastatals and by
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) which provides long-, medium- and
short-term credit to villages and farmers. IDA has recently approved a
project to strengthen TRDB's operations.
Marketing and Pricing
28.       Marketing parastatals are responsible for the marketing and process-
ing of most major crops and livestock products. GOT has progressively enlarged
the role and scope of these institutions, and this has placed severe strains
on their physical and managerial resources. Overall operational efficiency
is often low, and marketing margins are correspondingly high. GOT is aware of
these problems and is beginning to address them. The Bank Group is assisting
in this process through its analysis of and support for parastatals involved
in recent projects and in its economic and sector work.
29.       The control of producer and wholesale prices of all principal agri-
cultural crops (except vegetables, fruit, nuts, fish and eggs) is an important
tool of GOT policy. Responsibility for the formulation of pricing recommenda-
tions rests with MOA, whose Market Development Bureau (MDB) carries out annual
price reviews for major crops, taking into account international prices,
domestic production costs, the need for incentives to producers, the financial
position of parastatals and interregional equity. MDB is currently being
financed by IDA, on a provisional basis, under the National Maize Project
(Cr. No. 606-TA) and will receive further IDA funds and long-term technical
assistance under the Grain Storage and Milling Project (Cr. No. 1015-TA).
Coconut Production
30.       Coconut is the only cash crop, apart from cashewnut, which is
planted extensively in Tanzania's coastal regions, including the islands
of Zanzibar, Pemba and Mafia. Grown over an area of about 125,000 hectares
(90,000 on the mainland and 35,000 on the islands), the fresh nuts and oil
are important items in the local diet. They are also a significant source
of cash income for smallholders, who tend about 95% of the area under culti-
vation.



- 10 -
31.       Surplus coconuts used to be made into copra 1/, sold to local
processing mills and relied upon for a substantial portion of Tanzania-s
vegetable oil requirements. However, owing to increased consumption of
fresh nuts and an apparent decline in overall production, progressively
smaller quantities of copra have become available for sale to local mills
or for export. As a result, since 1977, Tanzania has become a net importer
of copra and coconut oil.
32.       The peak production period for the East African Tall variety is
normally between 15 and 30 years of age. Three quarters of Tanzania's
coconut palms, however, are over 50 years old. This age, as well as wide-
spread neglect, of the existing groves account for the low yields common
along the Coast. There are no reliable data on production among small-
holders, but current yields probably average 20 nuts/palm/year. Improved
management could raise output even from existing trees to 40 nuts/palm over
a three-to-four-year period.
33.       In general, coconut smallholdings are poorly managed.  Palm
densities vary from 70 to 300 palms per hectare, compared with a recommended
density of 143 for pure stands of Talls. Maintenance is usually confined to
annual burning of undergrowth, an operation which often damages and retards
the growth of the palms. Intercropping with cassava and maize is normal while
the palms are young, but fertilizer is rarely used. Moreover, the seedlings
supplied to farmers through Government programs have usually been unselected
ones.
34.       Management of the few coconut plantations and estates in the
country (except the Mafia Plantation) is also minimal. The larger estates
were previously owned and managed by European settlers, but are now State-
owned. Mafia Coconut Ltd. manages an area of 2,800 ha reasonably well,
but has not been able to afford the use of fertilizer for the last several
years, with a consequent decline in production. Present yields are estimated
to be about 30-35 nuts/palm/year.
35.       An estimated 20-25% of palms particularly in the Tanga, Pangani and
Bagamoyo areas have been affected by disease. The disease has not yet been
identified; nor has its cause been determined. The major insect pest is the
Rhinoceros bettle which causes considerable damage. Farm hygiene, particularly
the proper disposal of dead palm trunks and other organic debris which serve
as breeding grounds for the beetle, is generally ignored by farmers.
Marketing and Processing
36.       The marketing and pricing of fresh coconuts is not subject to state
control.  Copra, however, is purchased by village councils for delivery to
the National Milling Corporation (for processing into oil) or to the General
Agricultural Products Export Corporation (for sale to export markets). As
1/   Copra is the dried coconut 'meat  from which oil is derived.



- 11 -
with other scheduled crops, the copra price is fixed annually by Government,
and has recently been increased to restore its approximate parity with the
export price. However, the average return to producers from fresh nuts
remains almost twice as high and farmers currently have little incentive to
produce copra. Indeed, no farmer produces it unless there are obvious
obstacles (such as transport) to the sale of fresh nuts. Plantations are also
converting to the more lucrative trade in fresh nuts. Current production is
estimated at 175 million nuts (of which only 6 million are sold as copra).
Demand for fresh nuts is expected to increase to 420 million by the year
2000, with an additional 300 million still necessary to meet projected
requirements for oil.
37.       The coconut offers a wide range of processing possibilities.  In
addition to copra for oil production, they include coir fibre, shell flour,
charcoal, alcohol and copra cake (used as a livestock feed). In Tanzania,
very little has been attempted along these lines. The existing oil mills
have a crushing capacity of nearly 20,000 tons of copra, but are operating
well below capacity as a result of the shortage of raw material. The supply
of copra is unlikely to improve until the large effective demand for fresh
coconuts has been satisfied.
Research and Extension
38.       Until 1970, coconut research was carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture, mainly at the Chambezi Experimental Station in the Coast Region.
However, no information on those early trials is available and their results
appear not to have been put to practical use. Since 1970, research on coconut
has been undertaken at Mlingano Agricultural Research Institute (MARI) in the
Tanga region. The current program is extremely limited and reflects the low
priority previously accorded to coconuts. Some agronomic trials are also
being carried out at Chambezi, but supervised from MARI. Two Tanzanian
officials have been assigned duties on coconut research, but both would
benefit from additional training and experience.
39.       The lack of past emphasis on coconuts is also reflected in the
absence of a proper extension program for improved coconut production.
Regional attempts at coconut extension have centred on the establishment
of nurseries to raise seedlings for farmers. However, there are no reliable
sources of good seed nuts and the seedlings distributed have been unselected
ones.
The National Coconut Development Project
40.       With the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Govern-
ment has already begun the first phase of a National Coconut Development
Project. As agreed in April 1979, the project is intended to develop disease
and pest control measures, examine the potential for developing improved
varieties, undertake training for Tanzanian staff in husbandry and extension
techniques and assist the Government in the preparation of a Coconut Master
Plan. The Project is being implemented by the German Agency for Technical



- 12 -
Cooperation (GTZ). To ensure complementarity and cost-effectiveness in these
efforts, the Government has proposed that GTZ also manage the proposed IDA-
financed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania
with the assistance of the FAO/Bank Group Cooperative Program and was
appraised in October 1979. To ensure full completion of pre-project
activities, an advance of US$288,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) was granted in May 1980. A staff appraisal report entitled "Coconut
Pilot Project," Report No. 2906-TA dated August 14, 1980 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Dar es
Salaam in July 1980. The Tanzanian Delegation was led by Dr. S.A. Madallali,
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, and included representa-
tives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture in Zanzibar.
A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this Report and a Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
42.       The proposed Pilot Project would, over a five year period (1980/81 -
1984/85), help to develop a strong base for the future rehabilitation of
the coconut industry in Tanzania. In close cooperation with FRG-financed
activities (see paragraph 40), the project would provide guidance for the
planning and implementation of future large scale coconut projects through
the formulation of a technical package for improved production and the
training of local staff. Specifically, the project would include financing
for:
(a) varietal trials at three sites in mainland Tanzania and
one site on Zanzibar, covering a total of about 200 ha;
(b) improved maintenance and rehabilitation trials on a total
of about 1,000 ha on the Chambezi Experimental Station
and Zegereni State Farm on the mainland and at the
Government plantations in Zanzibar;
(c) a 100 ha seed garden for the production of hybrid seed
nuts;
(d) soil and hydrological surveys to assist in the selection
of varietal trial sites and the seed garden site and in
the preparation of a coconut land suitability map;
(e) technical assistance, consulting and management services
and training for Tanzanian staff; and



- 13 -
(f) the preparation of a feasibility study for the next phase
of the coconut development program.
Implementation and Detailed Features
43.       The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
the implementation of the project. However, to assist MOA and to achieve
close cooperation and coordination between the German- and IDA-financed
activities, GTZ would undertake joint management of both coconut development
projects (see para. 40 above). The GTZ Project Team Leader, who is already in
Tanzania, would assume the role of overall Project Manager and the services of
the FRG-financed Plant Breeder would also be made available to the project.
The appointment of such management consultants would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement), and their appointment would be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(f) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Varietal Trials
44.       To permit selection of the most appropriate varieties of coconut
for each region, the proposed project would provide for a set of trials at
four sites in Tanga, Dar es Salaam-Coast and Mtwara-Lindi regions and in
Zanzibar. The trials would involve the testing of about thirty varieties,
including an especially promising variety from the Ivory Coast, and would
assess their precocity, yield and resistance to disease and pests, as well
as their nutrient requirements. Nurseries to raise seedlings for the trials
would be established at each of the four sites. Those on the mainland would
also produce selected seedlings of the existing East African Tall variety from
the third year onward for distribution to farmers by the Regional agricultural
authorities. This would allow the concept of selected seedlings and improved
husbandry practices to be introduced to farmers. Approximately 33,000
seedlings (enough to cover 230 ha) would be distributed from each of the three
nurseries every year. The nursery in Zanzibar would not distribute seedlings
to farmers, as the present density of palms there is already high. Four
Tanzanian agronomists have been assigned to these proposed trials and are
currently undergoing preparatory training. The selection of sites for the
varietal trials and the appointment of an internationally recruited Coconut
Agronomist to plan and supervise the trials would be conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed credit (Sections 5.01(a) and (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Improved Maintenance and Rehabilitation Trials
45.       The objective of these trials would be to test known improved
methods of maintenance and rehabilitation of coconuts with a view to
introducing them more widely in the country or adapting them to local con-
ditions. The results of these trials would permit the development of a
general technical package for use in a rehabilitation program. Large blocks
of existing coconuts located at Chambezi Experimental Station and Zegereni
State Farm on the mainland, and at Government plantations in Zanzibar, would
be used for this purpose. Provision would be made for the necessary machinery
and equipment, fertilizer and other maintenance facilities required to carry



- 14 -
out these trials. In Zanzibar, MOA would make eight tractors available for
the trials from its existing fleet (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Each of the trial sites would also serve as a training
base for local staff, both in management and crop husbandry. To ensure early
progress in these trials, MOA has already assigned local staff to act as
Assistant Plantation Managers in Zanzibar. However, the appointment of an
internationally recruited Plantation Manager would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the maintenance and rehabilitation trials (Paragraph 5(a) of Schedule
1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Seed Garden
46.       To establish a local source of improved high yielding planting
material, a seed garden would be established on Mafia Island. The project
would provide for importation of the necessary seed nuts and for their
planting and maintenance in the seed garden. The selection of a site for
the seed garden would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); the allocation
of land for this purpose would also be a condition of disbursement for the
seed garden (paragraph 5(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Soil and Hydrological Survey
47.       To improve existing knowledge of coconut growing areas, the project
would provide for a comprehensive soil and hydrological survey of these areas.
Particular objectives of the survey would be the selection of sites for the
varietal trials and proposed seed garden, as well as the preparation of a
land suitability map to be used in the planning of future coconut rehabilita-
tion projects.
Technical Assistance, Consulting Services and Training
48.       To strengthen MOA's capacity to implement the project, funds would
be provided for the employment of an experienced Coconut Agronomist and a
Plantation Manager (Sections 3.02(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The average cost of such personnel (including salaries, inter-
national travel and subsistence) would be US$8,000 per man-month. These
internationally-recruited specialists would plan and implement the varietal
trials, as well as the maintenance and rehabilitation trials, and interpret
results. They would also be responsible for on-the-job training of Tanzanian
staff in coconut husbandry, replanting and rehabilitation methods and planta-
tion management. To supplement this, the project would provide for short-term
training in coconut-growing countries (e.g., Ivory Coast, Sri Lanka and
Malaysia) with a view to creating a core of local staff with knowledge of
coconut rehabilitation programs.
49.       Additional expertise would be needed from time to time to provide
guidance or second opinions on specific technical aspects of the project
(e.g., soil fertility, plant nutrition, plant diseases). Six man-months
of short-term consultancies would therefore be financed under the project



- 15 -
(Sections 3.02(d) and (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement),
at an average cost of US$12,000 per man-month. To assist Project staff in
monitoring and evaluating crop responses, provision would be made for over-
seas laboratory services (e.g., for foliar analysis) to supplement facilities
available within the country. In addition, funds would be provided for GOT to
finance the project implementation services of GTZ and to engage consultants
in the preparation of a feasibility study for the next phase of coconut devel-
opment (Sections 3.02(a) and (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at Tsh 70.9 million
(US$8.5 million). 1/ The foreign exchange component would amount to
US$6.4 million or 75% of total costs. Details of project costs are included
in the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 5.2
million (US$6.8 million) would finance about 80% of total costs - 100%
(US$6.4 million) of the foreign exchange costs and 19% (US$0.4 million) of
local costs. Provision for the financing of local costs is consistent with
recent practice for Tanzania, where the Government's fiscal resources are
strained. The Government would provide the remaining US$1.7 million of
project costs, which appears a reasonable burden over the project period.
Procurement and Disbursements
51.       Orders for vehicles, tractors, attachments and spare parts (US$0.70
million) would be bulked as far as possible and would be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Contracts for vehicles and tractors estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent would be procured (up to an aggregate of US$100,000) in accordance
with GOT's local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. Orders for tools, office equipment, pump sets and barbed wire
fencing (US$0.66 million) would be bulked as far as possible and procured
according to local competitive bidding procedures. Contracts for the
construction of offices, stores and garages at each of the varietal trial
sites (US$128,000) would be too small and scattered to attract international
interest, and hence would be awarded using local competitive bidding procedures.
As coconut seed nuts of the required varieties are only available in the Ivory
Coast and 2-3 countries in Asia, their procurement would be on the basis of
availability, price and freight cost. Local seed nuts (US$0.30 million) and
fertilizer (US$0.9 million) would be procured according to local procedures.
52.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of (a) 100%
of the foreign expenditures and 85% of the local expenditures on fertilizer,
vehicles, tractors and related attachments and spare parts; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures on imported seed nuts, technical assistance, consulting
services, training and laboratory services; (c) 100% of the costs of locally
procured seed nuts; and (d) 95% of the costs of constructing and equipping
1/ The project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 16 -
basic facilities at the varietal trial sites. Disbursements against all
expenditures would be fully documented, except for those under (c) above which
would be on the basis of statements of expenditures. Certain expenditures to
be incurred after April 1, 1980 on consulting services in the selection of
sites for the varietal trials and seed garden, as well as on preliminary
surveys for land suitability mapping (US$150,000),would be financed retro-
actively under the credit.
Accounts and Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
53.       Separate accounts of expenditures under the Project would be kept
by the project implementation agency. These accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and would be submitted to
GOT and the Association within six months of the end of each financial year.
The auditors would specifically review and comment on the procedures used for
control of disbursements against statements of expenditures.
54.       Project implementation would be monitored closely by the Project
Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of MOA. The project management team would
submit detailed progress reports on a quarterly basis to the Principal
Secretary of MOA and the Association. Within six months of the completion
of disbursements, MOA together with GTZ would prepare and submit a Project
Completion Report to the Association, analyzing the implementation and impact
of the project in the light of its original objectives (Section 3.05(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       As the principal focus of the Pilot Phase is on research and
development, it is not possible to quantify the benefits of the proposed
project. However, it is expected to provide a firm foundation for future
coconut development in Tanzania by preparing integrated technical packages
for rehabilitation and expansion of production, developing precise infor-
mation on the suitability of existing and prospective areas for coconut
cultivation, and establishing a core of Tanzanian personnel with experience
and expertise in coconut husbandry and rehabilitation techniques. The project
will also provide opportunities for testing and developing approaches to
farmer participation. The full impact of the project would only be felt when
its results are applied on an extensive basis in subsequent phases.
56.       The prospects for effective implementation of the project are
sound, particularly as its day-to-day management will be contracted out to an
agency with working experience in Tanzania and responsibility for a complemen-
tary coconut project in the country. There is some risk of delays in imple-
mentation of the varietal trials component, owing to the seasonal availability
of specific varieties of seednuts required. However, contacts have been
established with potential suppliers to keep such possible delays to a
minimum, and the first batch of seednuts has already been imported with
funds provided through the Project Preparation Facility.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Specific conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. The draft Development Credit Agreement includes
the following conditions precedent to its effectiveness:
(a) selection of the sites required for the undertaking of
varietal trials and the establishment of a seed garden
(Section 5.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(b) appointment of management consultants for the implementation
of the project (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); and
(c) appointment of a Coconut Agronomist to the project by the
Ministry of Agriculture (Section 5.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 18, 1980



ANNEX I
-18-
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUET
TANZANIA                     REFlERECE GOUPS (WEIGTD AV8ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ EN.)                                                    - DST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL           945.1j"
AGRICULTURAL    498.0                               MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb  AFICA SOUTH OF SAHUA   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 70.0       120.0    230.0                228.9                 726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    41.0        62.0      65.0                80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2       13.3      16.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8        6.9      10.8                 17.3                  28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                      11.0       14.0      18.0                 27.4                  61.7
PER SQ. Rb. AGRICULTURAL LAND    21.0       26.0      34.0                82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7       44.4      45.7                44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                       54.3        52.5      51.2                52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0        3.1       3.1                 2.8                    2.8
r
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2        2.7       3.0                 2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             5.0        6.3       8.9                 6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0       47.0      48.0                 47.4                  46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0       19.0      16.0                 19.6                  16.4
GhOSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..        3.2       3.2                 3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         95.0      104.0      91.0                 91.8                  94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0       91.0      89.0                 90.2                  92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0       49.0      49.0                53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0       21.0      21.0                 18.4                  15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    32.0       25.0      20.0                27.7                   21.3
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.0       47.0      51.0                45.3                   50.1
INFANT MIORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       155.Ojc
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       13.0      39.0                23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..       61.0      88.0                 58.0                  66.8
RURAL                              ..        9.0      36.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..      17.0                 28.9
URBAN                              ..         ..      88.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         ..      14.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        21020.0/d  24770.0  15450.0               30910.4               14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.0 ,e 3830.0   2760.0                5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           570.0/d       ..      440.0              1198.9                1141.5
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                         4.
URBAN                                        3 2Z       ..
RURAL                              ..         4.5/c    5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..



-19 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGdTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMfATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Jb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0         38.0       70.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  33.0        46.0       79.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEIALE                18.0        30.0       60.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0        3.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0         4.0        5.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  23.0            ..         ..                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         46.0      50.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          20.0         19.0      20.0                   25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5/d      28.1/c    66.0                   25.5
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.5       2.7                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         11.0       19.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.3        ..                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                    3.0         5.0        4.5                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..        0.2                    *-                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.5       5841.7    7035.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6       34.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.3         86.0       83.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.8          5.0       6.0                    8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7        43.5       42.2                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 56.9         55.7       54.3                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               32.8         31.5       30.3                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      147.0                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      109.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      125.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       74.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       10.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       60.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise octed, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1967;  /d 1962; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
April, 1980



- 20 -                                                                      ANNE X I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
ioot-   AlnIo-igo the data are dowet Ieon sources  generally judged the moat aunbortattire and reliable, it should also Ie noted that they sop non be inter-
cotionshlo comparatle hecrge e of the look of a_andardleod definitfons and omncepnt used by different tcouneres in -cilecnr.g the data   The data ate, none-
too ita, use 71  ot describe oedees af  ogeiteude., Idiuate trends, and char tcterle tertain  -ajor differe-oes henoeencountrien
lye tretesente groups are (IS nile sane asonnery group of the subijeon couentr and 00) a teasery group vitb somewhat higi:er average iboone than the counrtty scoop
yofoth  suhit.ntcnotep  (enoept tot "Capital SurpluIs Il  seporta t'a groap wnere "Diddle Income torb Afi (ca and Middle east" is ...s.  because of
sotac-cuItuta1 aifininies .  to the reference group data nhe averagos  are population weigheed arihnetic means foc ean  isdicator and n'.oan tnly  nen ar
lease hlalf of toe countriesitoa group basata fto  tothat isdltatcO.  Snce the coverage of Conutries actog tbe inedlators depends on the ovalilabiliny of
data and in ont usifor, caution  nest be otercimed in telaning sveragen tf one lediintor no atnothr. h.en averagesare   lo 'sefol On norpuring the value
of tne undicatuc as a tine among thc coun-ro and tmferetct groups.
LAND AREA (th.ousand sq.km.)                                                                 nt to          c     an - Populationutttaet op vuster ur peatttttng  phY-
Totul - Total surfact .u _ comprising land urea and inland eaters. s-ouvo .,uc<tt  'on a meuiai SC'd inad                                           ;
Akr-ult-ral - Estimate nf ageioulntral area osd temporarily or permanently                                              -       Population civided ho turban of practicing
for  rcops, pastures, market aod kitchet gardent or no lie fallo-; 1900 data.,          mle and female geadoute tursee, p-actical turses  and assistant ourseI .
Population tee tospitai ted - total, urban, a rural - Population (votl,
GNi PBS TAPIfA ('SI) .- GNP p              a       a            ek   prices, tl-            urban, an   url) divided by thir respen            mber of hoopital beds
c-lated by tato t     -nnersioo method as World Bank AtIle  (Ih-7p  banisis); 1960,       oavileble is public and peivote general snd spetiali-ed hospital  nid re-
1975, and 197l   data.                                                                    habilitation  teeters.  Hospitals are establishments perInamecei  staffed
by an least one physician. Establisheents proniding principally .ustodial
ENEhR.o CdShUnPTIis PER CAPITA - Annual tnentpticn of -cosrcial eergy (onel                 tare are not included.  Rural hnspitals, hboener, int.lde health aed redital
and 'ill,tn  petrolueu ,oa-ueal gas and hydro-, out1-at and geotbernal elec-              centers nnt permanently staffed by a phytician (bht by a nral ameistant,
ech lop) in  Iiingrama ot on.l equivaleen  per capIta; 1960, 1970,  and 1978              nuese,  tiwite, et.) mAtch offer in-patient acco.m. datin  and peonide a
dana.                                                                                     li=ited range pf medical facilities.  Par snanistocal p,rpnnes urban hbspi-
tale include Wfoot prancipal general and npetieiized hospitals. and rural
FOPlLATION AND VITAI. STATISTICS                                                            hosninais local or -.tro  hnupitals and medical and Iatereievo -et-ro.
To-ul  Population, Mid-Seat (=illiots)  -  In of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1978           udeissions re         a           Total nunbor nf adnlssinn-  to on di-chergee
data.                                                                                   frm hspicale divided by the numbec of beon.
-rbaot_ Poplt     em t of nonall - Ratio of urb, no total population;
iff-en  defionnitnn  of srban are.a may affect oneporablliIy of data                HOUSING
n-on  contries; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                            Acerane Site of tenosetnd  personns eec bousehold) - tonal, urban,  van  rural-
Pmol#lotlc_Projections                                                                    A hu sehold consists of a group ot indioidools oho share lining quarters
Pvpul.stonc ynVear 2000 - Current populmatio  ptnfectisns are based am 1980             and  Iheir maIn =eals.  A boarder or ledger nay or nay not be t-cludee in
.octl population by age and see and their mortality and fertility  eaten.             the household for statintlial pueposes.
Proj)  tion patsne=mt  for nortality rates .ospriso of three letelt at-I           Avrage number of  ereost per roan-tortl, urban, and crol - Average n. .-
.g lift enpeonsoy at birth tstreamtng with country's per capita intone              he  at pers-n  pet rota. It, all crbas. and rural occupi.d conventniel
ol, ovd female life erocotatoy stabilleing at 77.5 years.  The para-                 dwellin, respeotively.  Dwelliings exclude scm-permanent structures and
noerco for feceilicy rate also boom three lecels attuning decline in                      cupd Pors
alIon  acording to in c  level and past  family   planning perfor.an.c.      Actest n    lii                t       Eie         totac  urban, and  eurol
Eah-   u.1   is then  ,,astignsd one of ehese sile coebin-ines If nercality           Concentlonal Anallings tint eleonritiny in lining quarctrtastDrcettaot
enA fertiluto tce.nd  foe pro)  onie- purposen.                                       of tonal. urhan, and  nrurl doellingsrespectively.
Stotiuvacy_pcpuaiontf- In astationarp poyulatinn there is no gerewth since
the birth rtoe it  equal no the death eate, and alto the age steutturt re        EliCililt
vaunt cunscarn.  This is achieved  nly after fertility rates denise to
niti  replacentn leoel of -nit  n  repordutt-on rate, when eah generation             Primary sohooi   total, male and female - Grost totl, calm and cecalo
of tomen replaces itself eoactli.  Tbs stationary polotitnsxizsiwas                     enrollment of all ages an the pri=ay level as pettentages of respectics
ott mated on the hasii  ot the peJeltoned thacatteritiIs of the popla 1ion              primary sobhol-age populahons; normally includes childeen aged b-li
00 the yoor l200, and the rate If denlime of feenility cant no replace-                 yeore but adj)sted for different legngn of prinaryeducation: for
tent ltnel.                                                                             tounoclet aith universal educenioc enrollment Ap esterd..fioed 100pen
hear star inano copulation is reathed - The year the- ttanioeacy population               hince so=o pupils are belo  or atone the offlnial school age.
stia  has beenreached.                                                                leodutory  nlc -u Rtonal  teas   an  femle - frCpuned an ab-e; se.codaey
Puou.loci- Dennst                                                                            dedntai- reursat least I-o  peact of aPpeoadpt,'          e  ins"trutint
Per to=ton. - Mid-yeat population pIe square kilo=sene  (100 ieonaree) of                 protides general. vocational,  e  eetech   teatning instratti_ns foe pupils
-ocal arra.                                                                             usually of 12 to 17 years If age; -orefmpond ene cuerses are generally
Per sq. bm. agricultural land - Computed as abhoe far ageiculat al land                   emoloded.
Only.                                                                                 feneelesel enrolleapt Oleroest of secondary) - tocational institutions
Fppuliaorc Age Steuctuoc (neccenri - Children (0-14 years), working-age (1S-                include technical, industeial, or other programs thich operate indepen-
64 years), and retired (65 years sa.  oveer) a  peroentages of mid-yeat popu-             dently or as depaItmentn of metndory instiftuton.
lation; 1960, 1979, and 1978 dana.                                                      Pupul-teather ratio - prinarv, sod secondary - Tonal students enrolled in
Population Grooth Rate (percent) - total - Ancual Rrovth racem of total mid- pdinaty and detondacy levels divided by nutebecs of  eachers in the
ouear populatio.s for 1910-i), Ii60-70, amc 1970-78.                                      correspondng levels.
Population Growth Sore (percene) - urbaem- Ansual geowth rates If urhan popu-             Adult literacy rote (percent) - LitCerae adolts (able to ead and ate)
lations for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                asa peeennage nI teal adult pop.lston aged  1 eors and over
Crude Birth hate (perthousand) - Atnual Aite births pFt thousand of mid-year
opulanCit; 1960, 1970, and 1978 date.                                              C0.NSUMPVTII
fruide Deah Rate (per t.hosand) - Annual deaths pee tlousand of mid-year                Passenger Cars (ver thonsand population) - Pa-smegec cars comprise actor
poyplotiot; 196i , 1970, and 1978 data.                                                 tote statist lent than ninht persons; catluars a=buiences. beatses and
Groon  Reproducrion RareA-uAvage cuhber of da-ghte- oIn.an will bkarin                    nilJitary vebicles.
hoc ocomol eproAoonive  period if she expeeiences present age-spatitic fer-          Radi  Receivers (per thtuosand populttor) - i1 types of .retivers for nad1 i
tlit-y  canes; usually 111cc-year ateragem  tding in 1960, 1970, and 1977.              broadcants en general public pe tossand of papalation; exclodes uti-
fonai  Planning - Atoopnne, Annual (thousands) - Annual cueher of acteporss               teosed rcetivers is tousnetes and it years nicen regtutreticn 01 radia seiN
ofih-courol devicssundtromutpitssoftnationai fa=ily planningprogra=.                    vafinaeffen; dsta forreeng  years mmysnat be c-aparsblsf    moatce
Pomilv Plannin:t-hUsers (ooroent oO earried tones) - Pertentage no  married               csunrtg iabo1ithed 1ieti.,
oe        child-ai  g    (15         e yeas) soe bieth-tontrol devicea to             optntrens   Irre ts   pnu
all married nones it sane ag  giourp.                                                   general publit per thousand pepulnion; enclades unlicensed TV refters
L.Intt.sneietad in Yeses when negistranton o If TVsets ass in effeon.
FOOD AND NUTRIT70H                                                                        newsaprrirodaiD  tee thond Oprtin) - Ihwn the average -                  r iule
loden of    d Pd                                     - Index  If per tapita ann.al        tint of "daily general interest ewspaper", deftined aa perioditl pb-
ronduotion of all fond Iumodin,s.  Pro duttiam extludes toed and feed and               iicanivn denteed primarily to emoording gencral sewn.  It is considered
in no calendar peas basis.  Corsosdities cater primary goods  (e.g. "ugSrnane           no  be  "daily" if int  ppears an leaI t four ti=ee a week.
nounead of sugar) which arc edible and contoin nutreets (e.g. coffee and              heremetal Attendante per Capita pee lear-gamed an the =umber of
to      I ore exciuded).  Aggregate peoducnion of each countty in bated o               tichens told darIng the yexe, inoluding admissions no drine-in tineIam
tiona  aver..e prodocer prine  eights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1978 data,                  and mobtle units.
for capita surply of toloriesa (percent of renuirerents) - Ceepuned froe
-neogyc                e  food  .plie avalal   in country per capita              LABOR FORCE
pro day.  Adailible supplies comprise sdsestic prodaction, imports lens             Tonal Labor Forte (thousands) - EIcone.ialOy actaive perstos, itcluding
exporis,  and  changes in stock.  It_ nupplies estlude animal feed, seeds,            a rmed faces and unesp1oved hut e-cluding housewives, students. et.
quantitoes used in food pro-essing, acd lesmes in disiRtrution.  Require-             Definitions in vaeious counte-es ore mmmc -    parable; 1960, 1970 and
tents .eca e.timated  o FACP bamed on physiologcal ee Ids for osennl anti-            1978 dane
viny uvd health tooniderion  nontdonmectal tr lpetaare, bndy -eignht. age          FPeale (peroent) - Female labor forte am percentage of total labor forte.
and sen disn-itatio   of populanion, and alloning 10 petrent for waste at           Agritulture (percene) - Labor farce in terming, fortstry, huntlit and
houcehold  tovel; 19h1-65, 1970. and 1977 data,                                       fishing  ss pernentgag  of total labot  IoreI; 196G, 1970 and 1970 dsta.
?oecacutosupployfefprotein  (grats per d<) - Pronmin content of per tapdna            Industry  (peretnt) - Labor foete ionmining, construction, nmanfacturisn
coo  supply of fond For day. Nte  eapply of food is defined am abohen   Re-           and eleotricity, sater a_d gas as perteMnage of total labor forte; 1960,
7uirnetntu for all -o-ntriss established by USDA pcovide for minimum                  4970 and 1978 data.
allovance of 60 grant of tonal protein per day and 20 geams of anief    l and       Poet-(erc)  - tonal, malt, and female -  Partipationo
prIor pennein, of ohicu  19 gr. S   thou-Id be animal peotein.  eThme stand-          activity rates  ore toopated as total, nale, and female labor forctas
ards scm loner th,, those of 71 bams nf total .. n.enand 73   stl. :,I, aofi                                                     plati- ofallag             e
rnimal pronein as en averagt forhe letr.ld, proposed by FAi  in the Thied      1960,  1970, ofd 1175 dmat.  Tsodemale IOpltiicIatll  ages respecttrl
u,old Food Survey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                                        gf- e17 atnct19e dftha.  Thpeltise   ad long pi=e Iytiend.  A f- escti-
Per cooicr rrctrln suPop  frop acteal and pulse - Feotein supply of fend de-            a       e irom n-In uI
r     .aond n  aoala   palset i0 groat pr day; 1961-65, 170  ad 1977 dana.                F    pde frntlnanplatio    de  10 od 65 and  -cd
_d (al  14                    t         h     d) - Annal deaths per thousand              to the total    s  fore.
age froap 1-4 years, ro  children  in this age seoup; for onou  deteloping tout-
trots daca derited from  lids tnhles; i960, 1970 and 1977 data.                     I       DISTRIBUTION
Prevt nagr of Privote Icoeme (both in cash end bind) - Receined by richest
LhEALT11                                                                                     5  ecn,rceC  Dprec   oret2   ecn,sd pooret 40 percent
Life Exdoettanc: st Birth (ves) - Average nuhben of years nf life remaining                 h-ren.ld            pe
atbirth,; 1960, 1900 -d                                                                 of househnls.
root: footalino tate Rye_r thousan9d)   - Anu-al deaths of infafns under one year   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
at cgo poe thousand live births.                                                      _ia entd Aihsolte Povtrty Income Li 
r,r:ouncc ale Wtor)otercen ofooulueon- total,urba, andtursl-                             Ahsciute poterno ince level Os that iWcome letel belov abbot a mini=al
ci people (totai, urban, and rural) ut  reasonable ace-,a en safe                ntitionally sdeduate diet plus essential  nn-f-ood requite=ents is -ot
varer upply o(inludes treated surcace usters or untreated hoe untontaminated             afnu
such us that floe pe-te-ned boemholen, springs, and sani.tarp oues) as          Estimated Reiati-e Moverty Intone Lecel (US$ tee capits) - srban and rural -
noerentages of theei renpectile populations,  on  an urbanaresapublit                   Rteal relative poverty intone level  is one-third of  --erge per capita
f_enn oII  _andpostlcated not-ncrehan 210 =etern froma house eay be                     personal ioncomeoherpuntry.             ran  levelis de-ied frc  the rura
d.dd-d    he being within reasoa.ble atcess of that house.  In rural atess              len  wish adSuntneft for highec nost of living in urban areas.
ranuble uctos scald imply that the housew-if  or ne=berm  of the household        ntimated Populatino  rlom  Abtolute Poveltl IIf nac Level (peen    -oin
cd ats r      p  _scd a disproporntanste part ci the day in fethcing the               n      a  -    t      f         n   (urban and rural) etc ate "ahuli_t pnor"
I.ID'.I.".~ ~~~~~~'t aserneds
50CR.9L  Io t(:ea  Optosl  Deceo  orpLPualaotor.-ett alceha   ad
rura  -  rImer  f popl  (eoal,  euoca, uodtrura') seroed by ea-reta
d     yr;=   sprcenattge  o) choir epsoect ve lnpulutionta.  Enoceto don-                                       tonnomic and Social lDatts itisinn
to' alpy  cvzuat thtci  ctzecion and disposal,twih  norintonutnaeoatmnoc                                      EcononicoAnalnnin and ProjetttOcslOepacttent
>1 suran  X.etaandwoto-natc  ty waoer-i octe ystscrs on tooe use of                                                          ipril, 19Sf
01000 .0000s  1n siiarintuallatdonn.



O                                        0<      .                                              r'  .  .  .  w  .   P3
'00i                  n< . .. 99 2              3W                                       p   9      x      9.g.<OrnYtou3ot2                P.     3e<gX70'     
*9 ~      ~         04      <     0       H      0<-000              0   00000 D0                                HH0HO-                   HOlarnDg6 t cmVM"c6 .r cu          ^ 3=e Ynf   
.     ' ND       6w        an       -n                         -                                      H aHOsrr D      
0<0                     00   n<0        -Y    P          0         0<   OHIO                0      g      00       =H<        H 
I0                  n      c00   0                         r=<0 0    0<H  000                            H      0         g        00
00 i0-0                0   OH   0W 0_<H,
H   0000OH                           O       '     H-                 .,..                               O
HO   0    0'00    0                      r<1 0< HW   -0                                                 00o       OHn 9rkS <DnN
O ~   ~                                                            r H   OH  'H                               w    'E0        09 mso 
Hr -.             . 0000                          HH.               0<. 0<  *   rrw r0o o @ >
H ~            ~~~~~~ OH                       0                  0                                   >        b>         >~>< .0 o<  _   H  
0                     H                             000               00                                                       0  ,,rMe-< WQW>tkh C  tOMt
9 ~ ~     ~    ~    H                                 00000           .400 i0  o<.00 o         H0<w 0-00000E00>
W~~~~~~0                                            00 --w    0o-   |00 0<0s @s             >>~~t8@0
0                 n  0<0<0<O     s     |n Z  .0  0<00<  00  00                o00<0<0000w<000<=<0<0
* ~    ~~            ~            ~~~~~~~ ~ r o <  I". .  i<                       0<         0< r0   
00   ~            ~~ 00          _                       0< _      <          0<  SO_W  
0<0<~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ 0<00    00  _<0    00  00  .4                             000< -.00000<0< 8 0    0 
0000 ~  ~           ~          ~          ~          > 00  *0<000000  0000<0000    00  00000  000< 00<0000<0000<
000<~~~~> 00r 00<0    0<<000    0<0000<<<                      000<            000<0<000000
000<0<00000<0<000<0000  0<00000<000<00.4   0   0<'  .              . 0  
0<~ ~ ~ ~ 00    0<0   w0 0<<<00         w<00            0<_0r0<0       cw0<0<0 o..w0<0<
00 ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         _ 0<  0000   _0 00X o  J 000000    000 0 < 0,
0<0000000<00000<0<00000<~~~~~~~~~ . 00000                  00              0000000000000<0000
0<0<~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 00  00<0    _00<00    00        00<     0         w00             000000<0<0000<0000
0<0<~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4< 0000    F00 0  <  0<  .                                           F         4 '        00
0<0<0<000<   ~              [ 00<0  o<0 W0W0<00000 _0< W<o0o
000<  00000<0<0<                           0<0<00000<000000000<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
0<0<~ ~~~            1Z<0    000 -0



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                   Page 5 of 6
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(million us$)
Actu.al                                       Preliminary              Projection
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1985         1990
A.  Sumsmary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                       384.3       434.6        476.0       467.0       632.1       686.3       613.9        672.0       765.2      1289.4       2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                       466.1        546.8       779.8       793.8       697.1       802.4      1210.7       1155.3      1353.2      2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                          -81.1      -112.2      -303.8       -326.8       -65.0      -116.1      -596.8       -483.3      -588.0      -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                   -5.9         7.4        -5.2        -7.3        21.5       -18.7        -24.6       -47.5       -66.5      -137.0       -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                         3.2        11.2         8.9        -3.1       -17.9        -16.4       -15.8       -37.8        -55.9      -119.8      -239.2
(Interest on public M & LT Loans)                   (-11.1       (-12.5)    (-13.6)    (-16.2)    (-19.5)    (-22.1)          (-24.7)    (-27.8)      (-35.0)   (-121.8)   (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)             )                 -9.1       -18.6       -14.1        -4.2         -3.6        -2.3        -8.8        -9.7        -10.6       -17.1       -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                     -4.2         5.0        45.2        92.9        55.4       116.1        175.0       195.0       218.4        384.9       678.3
6.  Balance on Current Account                                -91.9      -114.6       -263.8      -241.2       -31.1       -18.7      -446.4       -335.8      -436.1      -632.8       -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                   0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         5.0          5.4         5.7         6.1         8.6         12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                              14.0        18.6         6.5        34.9         2.9        13.9          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                           109.5       113.6       161.3       249.5       122.4       177.8        173.2       210.5
10.  Amortization 1/                                           -34.2        -23.7        18.8       -18.0       -21.9       -26.4        -26.8       -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements 1/                                        75.3        89.9       142.5       231.5       100.5       151.4        146.4       155.8
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                         0.0         0.0        60.3        25.2        23.7         8.8         17.0        30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                              7.2       -17.9         7.5        -5.1       -38.3        35.1         60.0       120.0
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                                54.8        49.0       -47.4       -30.1       -10.8       -26.0          0.0         0.0
15.  Change in Reserves (- = increase)                         -59.4        -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9      -169.5        229.0        24.3
B.  Grants and Loans CoEsnitment
1.  official Grants 2/                                           9.8        23.6        51.1       127.8       119.0       130.0        200.0       216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                         65.4       107.1       260.4       151.8       194.1       197.3        225.3       269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                   -           -          65.0         30.0        37.0        53.0        25.0         66.0
2.2  IDA                                                   10.8        22.6         61.2        10.0        52.0        49.2        73.5         63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                     3.3         1.8          7.1        18.0        10.8        33.5        27.6         18.2
2.4  Governments, of which:                                47.1        82.8       127.1         93.7        82.7        61.3        98.3         30.0
Centrally planned economies                         4.9          3.0        76.5         5.4         -           -            2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                              -           -            -           -                       -           -           80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                 4.2         -                        _          11.7         0.3         -           10.0
2.7  Bonds
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                                -           -            -           -           -           _           _            2.8
3.  Other M & LT Loans (where available)                       26.4         18.6         5.6         2.9         6.0         -            -
C.  Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitments                         49.2         83.4        63.1        56.4        66.6        56.8         45.5        32.8
.  Average Interest                                            3.6         0.6          2.3         3.0         2.2         3.2         4.5          5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                   28.1         47.8        32.2        31.9        38.8        35.1         32.8        25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                              EAIDA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                             January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                            Page 6 of 6
Debt' and creditworthiness
Actual
1972        1973        1974         1975        1976        1977         1978
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only)
(US 4 Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)                441.7        557.1       728.3        917.1      1029.2      2123.4      2213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                      835.5        987.3      1280.5      1359.0       1555.9      1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                         43.3         39.3        32.4        34.1         41.6        48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                     11.1        12.3        13.6         16.2        19.5        22.1         24.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Serv'ce                                     ..          ..           ..          ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                           11.3         9.3         6.8         7.3          6.6         7.1          7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                              2.8         2.1         1.4          1.3         1.5         1.4          1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                       14.7        10.3         6.6          6.4         7.6         7.0          5.8
C.  Tems
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                               2.5         2.2         1.9          1.8         1.9         2.0          2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                  9.8         7.1         4.4          3.7         4.0         4.3          4.1
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                     23.5         20.8        20.7        31.4         17.6        22.2         14.5
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                             16.2                                 29 2        14.4        18.1
3.  Net Transrer/Gross Disbursements                             68.8        7Y1         oo.3         92.8        82.1         5           HI
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                 16.9        19.1        10.4         21.0        14.0        17.2         17.8
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements    19.4               21.8        14.0         28.2        37.2        37.8         31.6
3.  IBRD1 DOD/Total DOD                                          12.2        13.4        12.4         15.4        15.1        16.3         17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     23.1        23.8        21.1         24.2        25.7        29.3         31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         10.2        15.3        20.4         26.4        34.1        33.1         40.5
6.  Book Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   11.1        16.3        22.5         28.4        36.5        35.5         43.5
outstanding December 31,1V76
Amount              Percent
(US $ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                     209.9                     17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                               379.2                     31.3
3.  other Multilateral                                                        61.2                      5.0
4.  Governments                                                              714.1                     58.9
of which Centrally Planned Economies                                 317.3                     26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                                 16.5                      1.4
6.  Financial Institutioos                                                    18.8                      1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                     20.3                      1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.        1/                                              3.1                      6.3
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                  1/                            1213.1                    100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)-                                  1806.4                    148.9
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD EBd of 1978                          60.57.
1/  toelludes Tanzania'  otlonal share of 40% of  A  debt.KAIDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                                       Janu.ary 2, 19b0



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF JULY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2           91.2
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8      0.8
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                  10.3      1.6
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                          18.5     1.8
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                             17.5     7.7
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0      0.1
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.0                    1.5
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5      1.7
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.2      2.4
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0      4.4
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                9.0                    0.8
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0      5.9
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                    2.2
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.0      2.1
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.0      9.6
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.0      6.3
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                      30.0             5.5
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                    3.4
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.0      7.6
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                 8.0      1.1
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                    8.1
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5             3.2
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                         3.0
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.2      5.5
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                         12.0    11.3
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                          15.0    10.5
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    4.6
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                  27.5    10.2
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.0    13.1
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.0    10.6
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                   24.8
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                  20.0    18.5
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.0    13.7
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                   12.0    12.0
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                            30.0    26.5
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                   29.8
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.0                    9.9
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          25.05/                 24.0
S-24-TA    1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port                                  2.5    2.5
Engineering
987-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                           10.0   10.0
1007-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Pyrethum                                           10.0   10.0
1015-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                            43.0   43.0
1037-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                    14.0   14.0
S-27-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum                              30.0   30.0
1056-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Education VII                                      25.0   25.0
Total                                                      276.7  41.5   563.7  462.8
of which has been repaid                                10.4      -      7.9
Total now outstanding                                  266.3  41.5   555.8
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                         266.3  41.5   555.8
Total undisbursed                                          114.1   8.7   340.0  462.8
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF JULY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.3
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 0.7
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.2
Total                                           244.8               6.8
of which has been repaid                     58.7
Total now outstanding                           186.1
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1!                       186.1
Total undisbursed                                 6.8               6.8
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF JULY 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. In the meat processing component,
the settlement of a dispute between the Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
and the contractor should permit the completion of three meat plants in
Kawe, Shinyanga and Mbeya by the end of 1980. There is little change in
other project components, where major difficulties remain to be resolved.
The Credit should be fully disbursed by the new Closing Date, December 31,
1980.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. However, the project continues to face problems
arising from a sharp decline in the marketed production of raw nuts. The
producer price has been recently increased and the Cashewnut Authority (CATA)
is considering the introduction of additional incentive and tree-planting
schemes for farmers, but these measures are not likely to have a significant
impact for several years. As a result, the completed cashewnut factories are
expected to operate well below capacity through 1980/81.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Despite senior staff changes in the Region and continuing procure-
ment constraints, construction of agricultural and other training facilities,
as well as water supply and feeder roads, is proceeding satisfactorily. The
coffee rehabilitation and expansion program, and the land-use surveying and
mapping, are also making reasonable progress. While the keeping of crop
records is not yet regular or systematic, there has been a substantial increase



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
in maize, bean and cotton production in the Project area. However, the
village fertilizer trials have yet to produce conclusive results, and recom-
mendations fco recasting the trials are under review. The Project is not
likely to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In
view of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero
Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC-s
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow pace.
There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial
Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and
a postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities (pending adequate
fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). However, engines for the coastal vessels
have been received and are being assembled for installation and the first
fully equipped boat should be operational by June 1980. Loans to five villages
have already been approved by TRDB under the Ujamaa Village Program. Negotia-
tions are also in progress with the Crown Agents of the U.K. for the provision
of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
There was some improvement in project implementation during 1979
as a result of stricter budget and cost control by the Livestock Development
Authority (LIDA) and the Dairy Farming Company (DAFCO). Farm management is
also improving and production costs per litre of milk are somewhat lower than
in 1978. However, the financial prospects for the parastatal farms remain
poor and Ujamaa village development is negligible. The Government is consider-
ing alternative approaches to re-capitalization of the dairy farms and has
also requested a reallocation of credit funds from Ujamaa village production
to smallholder dairying. The project will continue to be kept under close
review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
After a slow start and serious management problems during the
first year, project implementation has improved considerably and is now
ahead of schedule. Plantation targets have been exceeded in spite of labor
shortages, a lack of equipment and a prolonged drought during the last
planting season. All key staff have been appointed and there are no serious
procurement or disbursement problems.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result of
severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel fuel.
These shortages have affected all components, except land-use planning which
is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply programs have been
the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages of technical staff.
The agricultural trials and production program, too, appears to have been
disrupted by the recent drought. Project management is attempting to resolve
the materials shortages by increasing the use of local substitutes. However,
overall progress in institution-building is likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory con-
struction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However, the
appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at exist-
ing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the First
Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full capacity
are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
All facilities have been completed with the exception of three
Community Education Centers. The project is expected to be completed by the
revised Closing Date of December 31, 1980. All completed facilities are in
operation with the exception of the Bagamoyo College of National Education
which will be used for the in-service training of primary school science
teachers.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. The Village
Management Technicians' training program is on schedule and will meet the
target of 1500 trained technicians in July 1980. The primary education sub-
sector review and the secondary education facilities survey are in progress.
Preparation of diversified curricula for general secondary education and
staffing plans for the project secondary schools are also in preparation.
There are reasonable prospects that the project will be completed by its
Closing Date.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project:  US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. However, it is necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and the
Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
September 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO has
obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost is
US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost over-
run of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. An EEC Special Action Credit (No. 55-7A) in the amount of US$7.0
million, to be administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.
Credit No. S-27-TA - Songo-Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Closing Date -
September 30, 1982
This credit is not yet effective.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed.  Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed; however, since the
credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 3 months, the closing date
was not postponed.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order for TEXCO to
utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities and in
order for the loan to be fully disbursed, the Closing Date has been postponed
to June 30, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Total commitments as of March 31, 1980 were US$4.74 million (net of
cancellations) for consultancy services, training and project unit services.
The procedures for processing proposals have been streamlined and are working
well. However, a large number of studies under the project have just been
approved and hence the credit will not be fully committed until December 1980.
The Closing Date has, therefore, been postponed to June 30, 1981 to allow ade-
quate time to complete disbursements for the remaining studies.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of
this project is being administered by IDA.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978- Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit became effective on April 15, 1980.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                              0.6
Total                             1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                              0.3
Total                             2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$30.7 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF JULY 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing         3.96    0.70    4.66
1978             Highland Soap and         Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            0.83      -      0.83



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
TANZANIA
COCONUT PILOT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events.
(a) First presentation to the Association
and date of first Association Mission            May 1979
(b)  Appraisal mission                                October 1979
(c)  Completion of negotiations                       July 1980
(d)  Estimated date of effectiveness                  December 1980
Section II. Special Association Implementation Actions.
The Association has approved a PPF advance of US$288,000 to finance
the importation of improved seednuts, the recruitment of a Coconut Agronomist
and initial training for Tanzanian project staff. Provision is also being
made in the proposed credit for US$150,000 in retroactive financing to assist
in the identification of appropriate sites for the varietal trials and seed
garden, both of which would be required at an early stage in project
implementation.
Section III. Special Conditions.
(a) It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government
appoint management consultants for the implementation of the
project (para. 43);
(b) The Government would assign four local agronomists to assist
in the varietal trials, as well as four Assistant Plantation
Managers to assist in the rehabilitation and maintenance trials
(paras. 44 and 45).
(c) The Government would make available eight tractors for the
rehabilitation and maintenance trials in Zanzibar (para. 45).
(d) It would be a condition of disbursement against the rehabilita-
tion and maintenance trials that an internationally recruited
Plantation Manager be appointed (para. 45).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) It would be a condition of effectiveness that the sites for
the varietal trials and the seed garden be selected (paras.
44 and 46).
(f) It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Coconut
Agronomist be appointed (paras. 44 and 48).
(g)  The Government would employ agricultural consultants to prepare
a feasibility study for the next phase of the rehabilitation
of the coconut industry (para. 49).



