Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13938
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DUDHICHIUA COAL PROJECT (LOAN 2393-IN)
FEBRUARY 1, 1995
Energy Operations Division
India Country department
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 30, 1994)
Currency units    =    Rupees (Rs)
One Rupee    =    US$ 0.316 (approx.)
One US Dollar   =    Rs 31.6
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Million cubic meters of gas    =    37 million cubic feet of gas
=    6,500 barrels of oil
-    890 mt of oil
=    1,940 mt of (Indian) coal
1 British thermal unit (Btu)   =    0.252 kilokalories
1 m3         cubic meter
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI       -      Government of India
CCL       -      Central Coalfields Ltd.
CIL       -      Coal India Ltd.
NCL       -      Northern Coalfields Ltd.
NHPC      -      National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC      -      National Thermal Power Corporation
PAF       -      Project-affected family
PAP       -      Project-affected person
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 1, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on India - Dudhichua Coal
Proiect (Loan 2393-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN),
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The project, which closed in March 1993, consisted of six subcomponents: (i) construction of
facilities for the production of 5 million tons of coal per year; (ii) construction of a coal handling plant
commensurate with the output; (iii) construction of on-site supporting infrastructure including a township
for 1600 residential units; (iv) preparation of an operational manual for the project; (v) implementation
of a training program for the labor force; and (vi) preparation of three studies to improve the operational
efficiency of Coal India Ltd (India's holding company in the nationalized coal industry) and the Dudhichua
mine.
The PCR finds that despite the delay in the completion of the walking dragline and the coal
handling plant, the Northern Coalfields Ltd. (NCL - the company implementing and operating the project)
started coal production on time in FY 1987/88 and has managed consistently to achieve production levels
far in excess of those anticipated at appraisal until FY 1992/93. Ever since, the mine has been producing
around its capacity and NCL has now embarked on doubling the capacity to 10 million tons a year. This
remarkable achievement owes much to the institutional development efforts including the services of an
experienced open cast mining consultancy company which advised the management of NCL in all aspects
of the mine management, especially in the early years of project implementation.
A significant feature of this project was its cost underrun. A combination of domestic purchases
under ICB, a general slack in the worldwide equipment manufacturing and the elimination of import duties
and taxes resulted in total project cost declining from an estimated US$362.6 million at appraisal to
US$236.7 million.
Another important feature of this project was that by the time the project was appraised, the land
(3160 hectares) for the first development phase had been acquired. NCL was successful in resettling some
63 families to the nearby areas. It also provided employment for 225 persons out of the estimated 378
project affected people. Environmental management by NCL includes back-filling of mined-out areas, and
extensive revegetation and reforestation.
Based on the above findings, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its institutional
development impact as substantial. Given the existence of a ready market for steam coal, the low cost of
production and the proven capability of the management, sustainability is rated as likely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their ofricial duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
LOAN 2393-IN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE  ..................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................... iii
Objectives  ......                     ...........................................    iii
Implementation experience  ........................................   iii
Results  ....................................................   iii
Sustainability   .         ...............................................   iv
Findings and lessons learned  .......................................   iv
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE  ..................... 1
Project Identity ..............................................   1
Background ...............................................                                                                    1
Fulfillment of Project Objectives  .....................................  2
Project design and organization ...................................... 3
Project cost and financing  .                  ........................................ 4
Project Implementation  .                 .......................................... 5
Project Results ..............................................   6
Project Impact ..............................................   7
Project Sustainability ............................................ 7
Bank Performance ............................................. 7
Borrower Performance ........................................... 8
Project Relationships ............................................ 8
Consulting Services ............................................. 8
Project Documentation ........................................... 9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                          .......... 10
Preface ............................................... 10
Comments on Part I ............................................. 10
Cancellation of Part of the Loan . .................................. 10
Environmental issues  .           ........................................   10
Resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people ...................   10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Comments on  Part III of the  Report   .                                     ........ .....       ....         ................                        11
Bank  Performance                ............                ...     ..   ..    ...    ..   ..    ..   ...     ..   ..   ..    ...    .          .    11
Borrower's  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . ..  . . . . . . ..  . . . ..  . . . ..  .   11
Lessons Learned               ...........               ..   ..   ..    ..   ..   ...     .        ..   ...   ..   .   ..   ..   ..   ..   .     .    11
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ...............................  12
A. Related  Bank  loans    ..........................................    12
B. Project Timetable    ...........................................    13
C. Disbursements    .............................................    14
D. Project Implementation   ........................................    15
E. Project costs and  financing   ......................................    16
F. Project Results    .............................................    18
1. Direct Benefits  ...........................................    18
2. Economic  impact    .........................................    19
3. Financial impact  ..........................................   21
4. Environmental  impact  ......................................   22
5. Social   impact   ...........................................   24
6. Studies  ................................................   24
G. Status of Covenants   ..........................................   26
H. Use  of Bank  resources    ........................................    28
ANNEX 1.1 COAL INDIA LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS ................. 30
ANNEX 2.1 NORTHERN COALFIELDS LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS ... ..... 33



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
LOAN 2393-IN
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Dudhichua Coal Project in India,
for which Loan 2393-IN in the amount of US$151 million was approved on March 20, 1984. The
loan was closed on December 31, 1992, as scheduled. US$42.0 million of this loan have been
canceled due to lower-than-expected cost of imported equipment. The remainder of the loan was
fully disbursed. The last disbursement was in July 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy Division of the India Country Department
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in January 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT PROJECT
LOAN 2393-IN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objectives of the Dudhichua Coal Project were to assist in the development of the
typically large-scale opencast coal mines of the Singrauli coalfield in order to accelerate
thermal coal production for the power stations in that and other areas and to advise and train
the personnel of Northern Coalfields Ltd. (NCL) and Coal India Ltd. (CIL) in state-of-the-art
opencast and mine-planning techniques.
Implementation experience
The project was implemented well by both NCL and CIL. From the beginning,
achievement of overburden removal and coal production has been consistently ahead of program
until, at closing, they were both ahead of program by over a year and the Ministry of coal has
requested that the 10-million-tons-per-year, second phase of the Dudhichua mine (not Bank
financed, although GOI is requesting financing at the time of this report) should be accelerated
in order to compensate for shortfalls of coal production in other Singrauli mines. On the down-
side, NCL was let down by completion of two of the most important procurement items, i.e. the
walking dragline and the coal handling plant, both of which were completed over two years
late. NCL's performance is all the more creditable in that it was achieved in spite of these
delays.
Results
The project was highly successful. It exceeded the production targets set at appraisal as
well as the economic and financial rates or returns. Extensive technical assistance in mine
design and operating practices made it possible for Northern Coalfields, which implemented
the project, to establish Dudhichua as a model mine. While the project was plagued by many of
the procurement problems cornmonly encountered by projects in the Indian public sector, excellent
management at the subsidiary and mine level made it possible to find solutions reasonably
quickly.
The mine has been designed to 'backfill' spoil material into 'mined-out' areas in the
mine, avoiding the build-up of large, unsightly overburden dumps. Extensive revegetation and
reforestation as well as excellent haul roads keep dust generation to a minimum. While
environmental management at the Dudhichua mine is quite a ways away from the practices



- iv -
applied at opencast mining operations in other countries, it represents a major step towards
environmentally sustainable mining operations in India.
Mining operations affected the livelihood of 63 families (or about 378 people). With
the exception of two families, all have been resettled. (A change in the layout of the mine,
made it unnecessary to resettle these two families). Most of the adult family member have
found employment with NCL. A detailed review of the resettlement and rehabilitation of
theses families as well as any landless families that might not have been compensated will be
carried out during the coming year under a proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Loan.
Sustainability
The project is sustainable. With its expansion to 10 million tons per year coal
production, it is set to be the most successful of all CIL's four hundred-plus mines. NCL faces no
known constraints in acquiring the remaining land its would need to continue mining operations
for another 35-40 years.
Findings and lessons learned
World-wide and, in India's particular geological circumstances, opencast coal mines are
much less expensive to operate than underground mines; thus their profit potential is generally
much higher. The move towards higher an higher percentages of coal being produced by
opencast means is an obvious and generally wise one in India. On the other hand, opencast
mining disturbs much greater areas of land than underground mining and the presence of
sometimes-large numbers of people, living and working on the surface of an area containing coal,
presents problems of compensation and resettlement which Coal India are finding great
difficulty in overcoming. In Dudhichua the surface population was small and there were no
major problems. Other opencast coal mining projects, including two financed by the Bank, have
suffered major delays due to the difficulties of agreeing acceptable resettlement and
compensation arrangements.
In addition, insufficient attention is given to the restoration of land distributed by
mining in India. Sometimes this is understandable, since most of the mines have very long
operational 'lives' and restoration is regarded as something that can be done 'when it is
necessary', years hence. Dudhichua, for instance, has a life of over seventy years at a
production rate of 5 million tons per year. Even so, much more could be done to improve the
appearance and functionality of the restored land on an ongoing basis at little extra cost than
the present practice of planting tree-seedlings to disguise the damage done. The Bank should
ensure, in any future similar projects, that planning of restoration is given more attention at the
mine-planning stage.



- 1 -
PART I
PROTECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name: Dudhichua Coal Project
Loan No.     2393-IN
RVP Unit:    South Asia Region
Country:     India
Sector:      Energy
Subsector:    Coal
Background
Coal is India's largest source of commercial energy. Almost 70% of annual coal output is
used to generate electric power; the remaining 30% are consumed by a variety of industrial
enterprises.
ORGANIZATION OF THE COAL INDUSTRY. Coal production is largely in the hands of
seven coal companies, which operate in different geographical regions of the country. An
eighth company is engaged in mine planing and design . Organizationally, these coal
companies are subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd. (CIL), which was established after
nationalization of the industry in the early 1970s as a holding company with the explicit
purpose to manage the coal industry. CIL is fully owned by the central government.
THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY. After the steep increase of international oil prices
in the 1970, the Indian Government established a working group to review India's energy
policy. One of the main recommendations of this Working Group on Energy Policy was
substitution of oil products with energy based on indigenous coal. This led to a massive shift of
resources into the power sector. To facilitate this, the central government established the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation
(NHPC); in parallel, the Government decided to nationalize the coal industry. This provided
the coal industry with access to public resources which enabled it to finance the investments
required to meet the rapidly growing demand for coal.
Immediately after nationalization of the coal mining industry in 1972 the Government's
aim was to increase coal production as quickly as technically feasible. Little regard was given
to efficiency and coal quality. By the early 1980s recognized the cost this strategy imposed on
the economy and took steps to improve the efficiency of mining operations and to raise coal
quality. The Government then had the following aims for the industry:



- 2 -
(a)  the development of new, large-scale, highly mechanized mines to allow rapid
expansion of production with due regard to safety and environmental protection
and using increasingly efficient technologies and equipment;
(b)  the rehabilitation and mechanization of certain of mines producing prime coking
coal in order to reduce the need for imports;
(c)  improvement in the availability and cost of coal to distant consumers by
optimizing mine/consumer linkages, improving transportation systems and giving
priority to the exploration and development of mines in southern India; and
(d)  the introduction of measures to improve the quality and consistency of coal
supplies to consumers, reduce transportation requirements and improve the
efficiency of thermal power units, steel plants, industrial boilers, etc.
THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY. The Bank's involvement in the Indian coal
sector began with a loan for the Chasnulla mine (Coal Production Project TO 287) in 1961. A
major accident at this mine, killing 175 miners, led to a hiatus of almost two decades in the
Bank's support for this sector. In the late 1970s the Bank decided to explore again the
possibility of extending its support to the coal sector. A mission to review the coal sector visited
India in 1980, and its report, India Coal Sector Report (Report 3601-IN), was issued in
September 1982. The report endorsed Coal India's strategy to rely increasingly on highly
mechanized large opencast mining operations to meet the expected increase in coal demand, and
to raise the efficiency of underground mines through mechanization. The Bank's renewed
involvement in the sector started with the Dudhichua Coal Project, which was designed to
bring modern, state-of-the-art opencast mining technology to the Indian coal industry. In
addition to improving mine design and operating practices, the project provided technical
assistance for a review of coal transport and distribution from mines to power stations. Within a
period two years the Board approved two more projects, the Jharia Coking Coal Project, which
extended these efforts to the Jharia coalfield, India's largest resource of prime coking coal, and
the Coal Mining Coal Quality Improvement Project, which did the same for mining operations
in the Raniganj and Korba coalfields. With these three operations, the Bank had achieved the
primary aim of its assistance to the coal sector, to assist Coal India Ltd. (CIL) in raising the
efficiency of its opencast and underground mining operations in major coal producing areas
through mechanization, improved mine design and better mining practices; and in
implementing measures to improve the quality of coal produced.
Fulfillment of Project Objectives
PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The mine was and is a key factor in the master plan for the
development of the Singrauli coalfield. The objectives of the Dudhichua Coal Project were
(a)  to assist in the development of the typically large-scale opencast coal mines of
the field in order to accelerate thermal coal production for the power stations in
that and other areas; and



- 3 -
(b)  to advise and train NCL and CIL personnel in state-of-the-art opencast mining
and mine-planning techniques.
The project provided for the first-stage of development of the Dudhichua mine
designed to produce 5 million tons of thermal (steam) coal per year to supply local NTPC power
stations and other stations in western India. The mine has a stripping ratio of 3.3 cubic meters of
overburden to each ton of raw coal, a maximum mining depth of 235 meters and a total reserve of
345 million tons. The mine was designed to be expanded to produce 10 million tons per year in its
second development stage, after completion of the Bank-financed project. Based on an annual
coal production of 5 million tons the mine's reserves would be exhausted by the year 2058; if
annual production was increased to 10 million tons existing reserves would permit production to
the year 2028.
PROJECT COMPONENTS. The project consisted of the following components:
(a)  Construction and start-up facilities at the Dudhichua mine for production of about
5 million tons of coal per year.
(b)  Construction of a coal handling plant to handle the coal output from the project.
(c)   Construction of on-site supporting infrastructure, such as maintenance facilities,
warehouses, rail siding, power supply substation and a township consisting of
about 1,600 residential units together with community welfare facilities.
(d)  Preparation of three studies,
(i)  regarding the size and efficiency of dump trucks to be utilized at the
Dudhichua mine,
(ii) regarding operational practices in Coal India's opencast mines; and
(iii) regarding the process for improving the process for formulating and
controlling the operational budgetary system of Coal India.
(e)  Preparation of an implementation manual for the project.
(f)  Implementation of a training program for the labor force of the Dudhichua coal
mine aimed at the operation and maintenance of opencast mines.
Project design and organization
The project was designed to increase the thermal coal production from the Singrauli
coalfield, one of India's largest and best reserves of thermal coal. Development of this field is
comparatively recent in the over-100-year-old Indian coal mining industry. The field's geology
makes it eminently suitable for exploitation by opencast methods, inherently a much less
expensive method of producing coal than the more traditional method of underground mining.
While the field had been operated by opencast methods for some years, the project was
intended to bring international state-of-the-art (Western) technology and techniques into the
Indian mining industry. Productivity was to be improved by the better use of large electric
walking draglines and tracked shovels, together with larger mining trucks and ancillary



- 4 -
equipment. Crushing, handling and loading facilities were to be provided to prepare the coal
produced to acceptable parameters and to optimize unit-train dispatch. To accelerate the use of
up-to-date mining methods and improve all aspects of mine operation and equipment usage and
maintenance, experienced technical assistance was to be provided.
At the time of appraisal the beneficiary was Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), an
operating subsidiary of CIL. A short time later mining operations in the Singrauli coalfield
were split off from CCL and a new company, Northem Coalfields Limited was formed to
operate the mines in that field. While NCL were responsible for implementation of the project,
CIL were responsible for the procurement of all the mobile equipment. Procurement of the fixed
installation, i.e. the coal crushing, handling and loading plant, became the responsibility of
NCL.
Project cost and financing
PROJECT COST. At the time of appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$362.6
million. Based on actual expenditures, converted at the prevailing exchange rates, cost of the
project turned out to be US$236.7 million, about 35% below the original estimate.
The cost of imported equipment (and spares) tumed out be only slightly more than one
third of the estimate at appraisal. This is not an uncommon pattem, which has two major
causes. One, the domestic preference clause gives Indian suppliers, in particular those with
foreign collaboration agreements, a decisive edge over foreign competitors. In addition, high
import duties on spares, discouraged Coal India's subsidiaries to use of imported mining
equipment, where roughly equivalent domestically manufactured equipment was available.
(The significant reduction of import duties on spares, announced by the Government in February
1994, will eliminate this disincentive to imports of mining equipment). As a result, a larger-
than-expected share of contracts procured under ICB goes to Indian suppliers. Two, experience
has shown that procurement under ICB results in about a 30% reduction of project costs. The
increase in the share of foreign cost of the coal handling plant reflects the fact that this
contract was awarded to a foreign company. The cost overrun is largely due to delays in the
completion of the civil works portion of this tumkey contract by Indian subcontractors and an
accident during the construction of the coal handling plant.
A significant departure from the appraisal estimates represents also the almost five-
fold increase in expenditures for technical assistance. While it was the original intent to
transfer state-of-the art technology through appropriate equipment, it became soon apparent
that this would need to be paired with extensive assistance in mine design and operating
practices. The heavy dose of international assistance in these areas and the receptivity of NCL
staff to the advice made available to them turned out to be key factors in the overall success of
this project.
PROJECT FINANCING. World Bank provided a loan of US$151 million Bank financing
was provided for the procurement of mobile mining equipment, a 5 million ton per year coal-
crushing, handling and loading plant and a technical consultancy to advise and train the mine



management and personnel in modem opencast coal mining techniques, mine planning and
equipment usage and maintenance.
Project Implementation
LOAN EFFECTIVENESS AND PROJECT START-UP. The loan was approved on March
20, 1984 and signed on May 25, 1984. It became effective on August 30, 1984.
IMPLEMENTATION. The management personnel for Dudhichua were supplemented by
a team of mining engineers and technical experts from the Canadian mining consultancy
company of Met-Chem, a contract arrangement financed by the Bank. Both the reports from
NCL and the actual results indicate clearly that the arrangement provided highly effective
assistance in the operation of the mine. The Bank's mining engineers, who were involved in
supervising this project and who were able to visit nearby mines in the same coalfield
consistently noted and reported the improvement in working practices and efficiency which
resulted from direct, hands-on advice from the consultants. On completion of their contract the
consultants supplied seventy copies of a comprehensive (seven volume) opencast mining
implementation manual to CIL for the use of their engineers in the planning and operation of
future projects in this and other CIL subsidiary mining companies.
From the beginning of the project, overburden removal and coal production have been
consistently ahead of program. This is particularly remarkable, in light of the fact that two of
the most important elements of the mine development, the overburden excavating dragline and
the 5-million-ton-per-year coal handling plant became available only two years after their
contractual completion dates. In addition, spontaneous ignition and combustion of in-situ coal in
the exposed working faces and loose coal in external stockpiles has become a persistent and
seemingly intractable problem in the mine, a factor which was not known to exist and,
therefore, not anticipated in the planning stage. In spite of these obstacles, production of
overburden and coal are both over a year ahead of program.
This, in turn, has encouraged NCL to accelerate the implementation of the second phase
of the development of the Dudhichua mine, which would bring coal production to 10 million
tons per year, since it would allow the company to compensate for production shortfalls from
other Singrauli mines.
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT. By the time the project was appraised
the land (3160 ha) for the first phase of the development of the Dudhichua mine had been
acquired. The area was sparsely populated, and according to Coal India's records, acquisition of
3160 ha affected 63 families. Assuming that an household consists on average of six persons, a
total of 378 people were affected by the project. All of these families owned land, houses or
both on the land required for the mine. No socio-economic survey had been prepared had been
prepared at the time of appraisal, and there is no record of the number of landless people that
could have been affected by the project. However, NCL is currently carrying out such a survey to
assess the remedial rehabilitation needs of all people affected by the project.
Considering that wages in the coal industry are about 8-10 times the prevailing
minimum wage, most project-affected people opt for employment with the coal companies. Few



- 6 -
project-affected people opt for compensation based on 'land for land'. Until recently, NCL
offered employment whenever it acquired three or more hectares of land from an individual, in
addition to the market price of the land, shifting allowance and other benefits.
As far as the Dudhichua Coal Project is concerned, NCL informed the Bank that it has
resettled 42 families (or 252 people) during 1988/89, and another 21 families (or 126 people) in
the following year to Jawahar Nagar on the shore of the nearby Rihand reservoir. A change in
the layout of the mine made it unnecessary to move the remaining two families (or 12 people).
Thus, all landed project-affected people have been resettled. NCL has employed 225 out of the
378 project-affected people. While a detailed breakdown of the project-affected population is
not available, it can be reasonably concluded that most male adults that had to be resettled
received employment with NCL. Considering the significant difference between farm in comes
and the incomes obtained in the mining industry, most of the project-affected population would
have experienced a considerable improvement in their standard of living.
PROCUREMENT. By prior agreement with the Bank, procurement was carried out by a
special cell created for the project within Coal India Limited's headquarters offices in Calcutta
and not by the beneficiary, NCL. Mobile mining equipment and the coal handling plant were
procured by ICB under Bank guidelines. Such problems as were encountered in the procurement of
goods in the project (and in other CIL Bank-financed projects) were caused primarily by
shortcomings in the CIL Notice of Invitation to Tender (NIT) and differences between that and
the Bank's recommended Sample Bidding Document. In addition, recurring problems were
caused by inappropriate and insufficiently precise equipment specifications. Coal India also
has been reluctant to impose penalties for non-observance of contract conditions when this would
involve state-owned suppliers. Combined with the 15% preference allowed to domestic
manufacturers, during the evaluation of bids, this situation has, at times, resulted in contract
awards to companies which have responded with delayed (and even incomplete) supply and
inferior quality goods being supplied without effective penalties being applied to discourage
future similar occurrences. In all other respects, however, procurement was carried out
competently and in accordance with Bank guidelines.
In the project it was found that the prices for some of the mobile mining equipment
(notably the large, 85 ton capacity mining trucks) which had been assumed in the appraisal
were far in excess of those obtained in practice. It is believed that the prior (and still
continuing) CIL practice of negotiating prices for equipment after initial bidding (in
procurement other than that which is Bank-financed) results in artificially high prices being
bid in the first instance, since bidders are always assured of a second chance to negotiate their
prices downwards and obtain an order. Bidders were quick to realize the Bank's ICB rules and
accordingly priced their bids at more realistic and competitive levels.
Project Results
The project was well-designed for its purpose. It exceeded its objectives, both in terms of
physical achievements as well as in terms of transferring state-of-the-art (opencast) mine
design and mining practices. It also exceeded its projected economic and financial rates of return.



- 7 -
The mine is currently more than a year ahead of the original mining program, both in terms of
overburden removal and coal production.
Project Impact
The successes of the Dudhichua Coal Mine Project are to a large extent due to the
introduction of modern mining practices with the assistance of consultants financed out of the
Bank loan. While the benefits of modern working practices have clearly proven their
advantage in the project, opencast mines in other subsidiaries have been reluctant to adopt
them.
Project Sustainability
Based on NCL's current projections the Dudhichua mine will be operated for another 34
years, until 2028, with an annual output of 10 million tons. (CIL has requested support from the
Bank under the proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Loan to finance the increase of annual
production from 5-10 million tons). Assuming that mine management continues to follow the
good working practices that have been introduced under this project (and there is no reason to
doubt that), the project is expected to continue to yield high financial and economic rates of
retums. (See financial and economic cost/benefit streams in Part III).
Critical for the continued success of the project will be NCL's ability to resettle and
rehabilitate project-affected people. Under the proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project,
which currently under preparation, the resettlement and compensation issues will be revisited;
if NCL's resettlement and compensation actions are found to be deficient in one way or another,
a remedial action plan will be prepared.
Bank Performance
Throughout the implementation of the Dudhichua Coal Project, the Bank contributed
significantly to the successful outcome of the project. In addition to providing meaningful and
well-received advice on the technical aspects of the project, the Bank assisted CIL and NCL in
dealing with the dilatory performance of two suppliers concerning the walking dragline and
the coal handling plant; these were the only serious implementation problems that were
encountered. Completion of the respective contracts was more than two years behind schedule
and burdened NCL with large and unnecessary costs.
CIL were allowed some flexibility in the procurement of equipment and were able,
within the loan, to acquire a few more units than were originally scheduled due to purchase
prices being much lower than originally anticipated. In addition, in view of problems of
acquisition of spare-parts they were allowed to purchase what CIL term 'float-assemblies' i.e.,
complete replacement diesel engines, transmission assemblies, etc., to ensure availability of
mining equipment. This, in large part, enabled NCL to attain their advanced production
position in Dudhichua.



The main lessons to be learned from the implementation of the Dudhichua Coal Project
inJlude:
*   the need for standard bidding documents, in order to minimize the possibility of
disputes and misprocurement (CIL has agreed to use standard bidding documents
under the forthcoming Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project);
*   the desirability of providing CIL with frequent and timely advice on procurement
issues, in order to avoid lengthy procurement-related implementation delays (CIL
has agreed to use the services of an expatriate company specializing in
procurement for the preparation of the technical specifications of bid documents
and the evaluation of bids under the forthcoming Coal Sector Rehabilitation
Project); and
*    the need to consider in the estimation of project cost that procurement under ICB
will reduce the cost of items procured under this method by about 30%.
Borrower Perfornance
CIL, in procurement matters, and NCL, in implementation, performed excellently and
the 13ank should have no material complaints about the manner in which this project was
managed. They were generally responsive to recommendations from the Bank, and made every
effort to comply with covenants. Had the companies not been let down by the two above-
mentioned suppliers, coal production would be even further ahead than its present good position
and the resultant performance would have been at least two years ahead of the program
defined at appraisal.
Project Relationships
The relationships between CIL/NCL and the Bank have been consistently good
throughout the project. The frank and open discussions which took place during supervision
missions resulted in satisfactory solutions in spite of differences in viewpoints which occurred
from time to time; they helped Bank staff to understand better and appreciate the environment
and constraints under which CIL's and NCL's management are operating; and they provided an
opportunitv to convey to CIL and NCL the rationale for the positions taken by the Bank.
Consulting Services
The concept of having and experienced opencast mining consultancy company (Met-
C(hem of Canada) advising the NCL management team in all aspects of the mine management
during the early years of implementation proved to be invaluable. It instilled good working
practices into the mine managers and supervisors; the effects are clearly observable at
Dudhichua and noticeably absent on other mines. It was later found necessary to employ
inspection consultants to ensure the integrity of components for the dragline manufactured by
Heavy Engineering Corporation of Ranchi. The concept of using expert inspectors in these and



- 9 -
similar supply circumstances has been extended to other supply contracts by CIL and their
subsidiaries with marked success.
Project Documentation
The Bank's documentation was constantly used and proved invaluable to the project.
NCL provided periodic status reports and accounts which, with normal Bank supervision
reports, were sufficient to monitor the progress of the project and provide most of the basis for
this Project Completion Report. In the event, the equipment procurement listing in the SAR was
modified as circumstances proved such modification to be necessary. Experience in the writing of
this PCR has clearly shown the desirability of preparing data for the PCR from the start of
and during the project implementation. The SAR itself should contain details of the content of
the required regular reports to the Bank, which should include all the data considered by Bank
staff to be necessary for the timely production of the completion report.



- 10-
PART II
PROTECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface
During the early 1980s Coal India Limited (CIL) approached the World Bank to
assist in the development of Dudhichua Coal Project, a large scale opencast coal mine, of
Singrauli Coalfields, in order to accelerate thermal coal production for the power stations. In
1986-87 the Singrauli coalfields of Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), where the project is
situated, was separated from CCL and a new subsidiary coal company, the Northern Coalfields
Limited (NCL) was formed. It has been a unique experience of CIL in establishing a big coal
project in a virgin area with the assistance of the World Bank.
Comments on Part I
The analysis made by the Bank under Part I is quite comprehensive and has
covered all important aspects.
Cancellation of Part of the Loan
In course of implementation of the project, it was found that estimated cost of the
project was on the higher side, as because the prices available under ICB were much lower than
the estimated cost. Therefore the provision made under "physical contingencies" and "price
escalation: in the estimates were not used. The saving was estimated by CIL during 1989. It was
to the tune of US$42 million which was surrendered.
Environmental issues
The environmental issues have been comprehensively dealt with in Part III of
the Report. We agree generally with the observation made by the Bank. The environmental
issues are given due importance and CIL as well as all the subsidiaries are committed to
minimize the adverse impacts on the environment by initiating action right from the planning
stage and by regular monitoring. In this project, the adverse effect on the quality of the water,
air, noise, etc. is well controlled. The program of afforestation is carried out very effectively
and proper green belts have been established around the colony and worked out areas. Proper
organization for environment management has been established.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people
Bank has covered in a comprehensive manner all the aspects of this issue. We
agree, in general, with the observation of the Bank on this issue. CIL has now formulated



- it -
resettlement and rehabilitation policy for implementation in all projects. Proper
organizational set up has been established for implementing the policy in consultation with
the project affected people, Government and Non-Government Organization (NGO).
Comments on Part III of the Report
This part of the report is in order.
Bank Performance
Highly professional Bank Supervision Mission has made the project completion a
success. Despite facing some odds because of their apt handling the project could be completed a
year ahead of schedule. The assistance of World Bank to CIL in developing of large scale
highly mechanized opencast coal mines and improving the efficiency through better training of
the personnel in the state-of-the-art technology and mines planning techniques along with
better utilization of equipment is highly appreciated.
Borrower's Performance
With the generated effort from all concerned, the project was implemented in a
professional manner. The project was implemented one year ahead of schedule and is
performing excellently. The lesson learnt from this project is being introduced in other projects
of CIL.
Lessons Learned
In this project, the very first on e of this kind for CIL, valuable experience has been
gained in planning and implementing a large scale highly mechanized opencast mine. The
Bank's procedure of procurement was for the first time introduced in this project and valuable
experience was gained even though there was some occasional set back in implementation.
Various studies were also conducted in the field of coal transportation and distribution, coal
production/consumer linkages, size and efficiency of dump trucks, operational practices in
opencast mines, improving the process of formulating and controlling the operational budgetary
system. Valuable experience was gained in managing large projects. The project has now
gained the confidence to such and extent that it is now proposing to double its capacity



- 12 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank loans
Loan Number    Year of       Purpose of Project       Status        Comments
Project Title   Approval
Jharia Coking     1985   To continue the transfer of   Completed    See Project
Coal Project,             technology for highly    December 31,    Completion
Loan 2498-IN              mechanized opencast mines  1992          Report for this
and to extend it to                      project
underground mines. The
project focused on mines in
the Jharia coalfield
(belonging to Bharat
Coking Coal Ltd.)
Coal Mining and    1987   To continue the transfer of   Under
Coal Quality              technology for highly    implementation
Improvement               mechanized opencast mines.
Project, Loan             The project focused on a
2796-IN                   mine in the Korba coalfield
(belonging to Southeastem
Coalfields Ltd.) and a mine
in the Raniganj coalfield
belonging to (Eastem
Coalfields Ltd.)
NTPC Power        1993   The project comprises:    Under           The project is
Generation                a) Generation of Capacity  implementation. located in the
Project, Loan             Addition; b) Private sector              Singrauli
3632-IN..colidan
component (oint venture                  coalfield, and
operations); and c)                      uses coal from
Environmental                            the Dudhichua
strengthening and                        coal nine
resettlement and
rehabilitation



- 13 -
B. Project Timetable
Date Planned    Date Revised     Date Actual
Identification                   September 1982                   October 1982
Preparation                                                       October 1982
Appraisal                        January 1983                     March 1983
Loan Negotiations                                                 January 1984
Board Approval                                                    March 20, 1984
Loan Signing                                                      May 25, 1984
Loan Effectiveness                                                August 31, 1984
Loan Closing Date                March 1992                       March 31, 1991
First Extension of the Closing Date                               March 31, 1992
Second Extension of the Closing Date                              March 31, 1993
Completion                                                        July 31, 1993
COMMENTS. Almost two years elapsed between the time the project had been
identified and the date of effectiveness. While this may somewhat exceed the time required
for the preparation of similar projects, it has to be kept in mind that this was the Bank's first
project with a new borrower, Coal India Ltd.
TIhe project's closing date was extended twice: all the procurement for the project had
been completed except for the implementation of the most costly item, the coal handling plant.
which suffered serious delays. The main contractor supplied the equipment for the plant
(mainly from his country) and employed Indian subcontractors for the civil works. The first sub-
contractor failed to mobilize the necessary mechanical equipment resulting in lengthy delays.
The contractor fired the first sub-contractor who applied to the Courts for an injunction to
prevent the contractor employing a replacement sub-contractor. The injunction was eventually
denied but the process resulted in further delays in appointing a second sub-contractor. A first
extension of the closing date was requested and granted.
In June 1991, seven of the contractor's employees were killed when an unusually heavy
rainstorm caused an inundation of the work area, resulting in a collapse of the main concrete
tunnel and flooding of the underground coal receiving pit where the men were working. As a
result of the accident NCL decided to redesign the tunnel before starting repairs. In order that
the contractor could finish the work, a second extension was requested and granted.



- 14 -
C Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$ Million
18    196   1298     1988   199   1990   1991   1922   1993
Appraisal Estimate   4.20   45.20  62.70  100.70 117.70 127.00 151.00
Actual                0.38   9.57   41.62  43.66  53.17  79.93  89.37  92.04  100.20
Actual as % of        9.00   21.00  66.00  43.00  45.00  63.00  59.00  61.00  67.00
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: August 13, 1993
COMMENTS. Of the Bank loan of US$151 million 69% were actually disbursed. The
main reason for this shortfall in disbursements were sharply lower prices of intemationally
procured equipment and facilities compared to estimates made at appraisal. This result was
discussed with procurement staff at Coal India Ltd. who indicated that in their opinion the
lower actual prices were largely the result of the use of 'intemational competitive bidding'
procedures. When it became evident that the actual cost of equipment purchases were well
below the appraisal estimates, the Government requested cancellation of US$42.0 million. This
reduced the loan amount to US$109 million. By the time the loan closed, NCL had spent
US$100.2 million, and retumed US$8.8 million, which had remained in the Special Account, to
the Bank.
U.u million
l50
: ~~~Appra wt estimnate             xLoan
100
50                            E          _ 
'
9f1
0   1984185  1985/86   1986/87  19s87/88  1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93 1993/94



- 15 -
Follow-on Project
Name: Jharia Coking Coal Project
Loan No.: 2498-IN
Loan amount: US$248 million equivalent
Date of Board approval: March 7, 1985
D. Project Implementation
Projections at Appraisal         Actual Achievement
Year        ~Overburden         Coal         Overburden         Coal
Removal        Production       Removal        Production
(million m3)    (million tons)    (million m3)    (million tons)
1983/84          0.60            0.00             1.28            0.00
1984/85          1.80            0.00             3.29            0.00
1985/86          2.60            0.00             2.78            0.00
1986/87          4.00            0.00             5.05            0.00
1987/88          6.00            0.50             8.15            0.61
1988/89          6.00            0.80             9.69            1.60
1989/90          6.00            1.30            11.22            2.51
1990/91          9.60            2.80            12.67            4.00
1991/92          13.40           3.30            12.00            4.75
1992/93          13.40           3.40             9.90            4.40
1993/94          13.60           5.00            12.10            4.00
COMMENTS: From the beginning of the project, overburden removal and coal production
have been consistently ahead of program. This is particularly remarkable, in light of the fact
that two of the most important elements of the mine development, the overburden excavating
dragline and the 5-million-ton-per-year coal handling plant became available only two years
after their contractual completion dates. In addition, spontaneous ignition and combustion of in-
situ coal in the exposed working faces and loose coal in external stockpiles has become a
persistent and seemingly intractable problem in the mine, a factor which was not known to exist
and, therefore, not anticipated in the planning stage. In spite of these obstacles, production of
overburden and coal are both over a year ahead of program.
This, in turn, has encouraged NCL to accelerate the implementation of the second phase
of the development of the Dudhichua mine, which would bring coal production to 10 million
tons per year, since it would allow the company to compensate for production shortfalls from
other Singrauli mines.



- 16-
E. Project costs and financing
Project Cost
US million
Estimated Cost            Actual Cost
Local  Foreign  Tota    Local  ForeignI  Tta
Equipment and spares               34.8    80.2    115.0   117.8    26.5    114.2
Coal handling plant                23.9     7.3    31.2    21.9    14.0    35.9
Land and civil works               31.1     1.6    32.7    29.1       0.0     29.1
Vehicles, furniture, ett.           0.0     0.0      0.0     1.4      0.0      1.4
Engineering and training            2.4     0.0      2.4     0.0      0.0     0.0
Preoperating expenditure           27.3    3.1    30.4    7.1         0.0     7.1
Technical assistance                0.3     0.7      1.0     1.7      2.9     4.6
Duties and taxes                   46.1     0.0    46.1      0.0      0.0     0.0
Base cost                          165.7   92.9    258.7   178.9    43.4    222.3
Physical contingencies              12.7    5.2    17.9    0.0        0.0     0.0
Price escalation                   47.5    28.2    75.7    0.0        0.0     0.0
Installed cost                     225.9   126.4   352.3   178.9    43.4    222.3
Working capital                     9.2     1.0    10.3    14.4       0.0     14.4
Project cost                       235.2   127.4   362.6   193.3    43.4    236.7
Interest during construction        9.6     0.7    10.4    0.0       0.0      0.0
Front-end fee                       0.0     0.4      0.4     0.0     0.3      0.3
Total financing required           244.8   128.5   373.3   193.3    43.6    236.9
Notes: 'Actual cost' include duties, taxes and price escalation under the respective categories of
expenditures. 'Interest during construction' is included in 'pre-operating expenditures'.
COMMENTS. At the time of appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$362.6
million . Based on actual expenditures, converted at the prevailing exchange rates, cost of the
project turned out to be US$236.7 million, about 35% below the original estimate.



- 17 -
The cost of imported equipment (and spares) turned out be only slightly more than one
third of the estimate at appraisal. This is not an uncommon pattern, which has two major
causes. One, the domestic preference clause gives Indian suppliers, in particular those with
foreign collaboration agreements, a decisive edge over foreign competitors. In addition, high
import duties on spares, discouraged Coal India's subsidiaries to use of imported mining
equipment, where roughly equivalent domestically manufactured equipment was available.
(The significant reduction of import duties on spares, announced by the Government in February
1994, will eliminate this disincentive to imports of mining equipment). As a result, a larger-
than-expected share of contracts procured under ICB goes to Indian suppliers. Two, experience
has shown that procurement under ICB results in about a 30% reduction of project costs.
The increase in the share of foreign cost of the coal handling plant reflects the fact that
this contract was awarded to a foreign company. The cost overrun is largely due to delays in the
completion of the civil works portion of this turnkey contract by Indian subcontractors and an
accident during the construction of the coal handling plant.
A significant departure from the appraisal estimates represents also the almost five-
fold increase in expenditures for technical assistance. While it was the original intent to
transfer state-of-the art technology through appropriate equipment, it became soon apparent
that this would need to be paired with extensive assistance in mine design and operating
practices. The heavy dose of international assistance in these areas and the receptivity of NCL
staff to the advice made available to them turned out to be key factors in the overall success of
this project.
Project Financing Plan
US$ million
Original      Revised        Actual
A. Equity                                     186.7         165.7         118.4
Government of India                           141.9          N.A.          N.A.
CIL cash generation                            44.8          N.A.          N.A.
B. Long-term debt                             186.6         165.7         118.4
IBRD                                          151.0         109.0         100.2
Government of India                            35.6          56.7          18.3
Total financing                               373.3         331.4         236.9
Note: The revised projection was made after Coal India had decided to cancel US$42.0 million
of the Bank loan.



- 18 -
COMMENTS. External financing was used to finance mainly procurement of equipment
and technical assistance in the form of consultancy services and training abroad.
Allocation of the Bank Loan
US$ million
CategZoryv             Original            Revised              Actual
Amoun   Percent   Amount  Percent   Amount  Percent
Coal handling plant         29.0      19.2      26.8      24.6      21.0       21.0
Equipment                  112.4      74.4      81.4      74.7      76.2      76.0
Technical assistance         0.9       0.6       0.4       0.4       2.6        2.6
Front-end fee                0.4       0.3       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4
Unallocated                  8.3       5.5
Total                      151.0     100.0     109.0     100.0     100.2      100.0
Note: The revised projection was made after Coal India had decided to cancel US$42.0 million
of the Bank loan.
F. Project Results
1. Direct Benefits
The Singrauli region, in which the Dudhichua coal project is located has emerged as
one of India's major suppliers of energy. Large and easily accessible coal reserves as well as the
availability of water (Rihand reservoir) provide the basis for coal-based thermal power
generation. While a significant portion of the power generated in the region is used by local
industry, most of it is exported to feed the power grids of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
The direct beneficiaries of the development of the Dudhichua mine are the power
stations in the Singrauli region. While most coal mines are 'linked' to specific power stations,
NCL uses the Singrauli mine predominantly as a 'swing producer' to meet production shortfalls
of other mines. While this was not originally intended, the location of the mine near major
power stations as well as its relatively high efficiency (and thus low production costs) made it
suitable for this role.
As indicated above, the relatively high efficiency of the Dudhichua mine is largely
due to the 'heavy dose' of technical assistance for mine design and operating practices. The
recommendations were distributed to Coal India's other coal producing subsidiaries, who
benefited indirectly from the technical assistance provided to the Dudichua coal mine.



- 19-
2. Economic impact
Operating Costs
Rs per ton
Projection              Actuals
1982/83 terms          Current terms
90/91    93/94    98/99    9091    93/94
Coal production (million tons)            2.5      5.0     10.0       4.0      4.0
Overburden Removal (mill. m3)             6.0     13.0     36.0      12.7     12.1
Wages                                    16.5      8.2      6.6      12.6     26.0
Consumables                              35.5     28.9     26.8      43.9    105.6
Power                                     9.0      5.1      3.8       7.4     18.8
Miscellaneous                            11.5      7.4      6.8      37.0     38.8
Overheads                                 8.3      4.1      3.4       5.4      7.2
Operating costs                          80.8     53.7     47.4    106.4    196.4
Memo item:
Operating cost (US$ per ton)                                          6.0      6.2
COMMENT. Since many cost components are fixed, operating cost (per ton of coal) are
greatly affected by fluctuations in mine production. At the time of appraisal, the operating cost
per ton of coal were estimated at US$8.3 for 1990/91 and US$5.5 for 1993/94. Actual cost for
theses years are US$6.0 and US$6.2 respectively.



- 20 -
Economic Cost /Benefit Streams
Rs million 1983/84 terms
Fiscal Year  Production   Capital    pmerating   Working    Net sales   Net flows
cost       cost      capital    revenues
1983/84                205.9                                          -205.9
1984/85                 79.0                                           -79.0
1985/86                 93.8                                           -93.8
1986/87                309.5                                          -309.5
1987/88       0.6       89.6                                           -89.6
1988/89       1.6      125.4                                          -125.4
1989/90       2.5      408.7        88.5        29.5      1661.3      1134.5
1990/91      4.0       145.2       172.8        28.1      2647.5      2301.4
1991/92      4.8       167.7       315.6        47.6      3143.9      2612.9
1992/93       4.4      256.6       274.0       -13.9      2879.1      2362.4
1993/94       4.0      282.3       257.6        -5.5      2614.4      2080.0
1994/95       4.3     -106.9       306.8        16.4      2846.0      2629.7
1995/96       5.0       76.8       274.1       -10.9      3309.4      2969.3
1996/97       5.0       76.8       274.1                  3309.4      2958.4
1997/98       5.0       89.3       274.1                  3309.4      2945.9
1998/99       5.0       113.8      274.1                  3309.4      2921.4
1999/00       5.0        4.0       274.1                  3309.4      3031.2
2000/01       5.0       18.0       274.1                  3309.4      3017.2
2001/02       5.0       45.9       274.1                  3183.7      2863.7
2002/03       5.0        89.4      274.1                  3183.7      2820.1
2003/04       5.0        33.7      274.1                  3183.7      2875.9
2004/05       5.0        32.2      274.1                  3183.7      2877.4
2005/06       5.0       29.4       274.1                  3183.7      2880.1
2006/07       5.0       28.6       274.1                  3183.7      2881.0
2007/08       5.0       125.1      274.1                  3183.7      2784.5
2008/09       5.0       35.5       274.1                  3183.7      2874.1
2009/10       5.0       37.5       274.1                  3183.7      2872.1
2010/11       5.0       53.6       274.1                  3183.7      2856.0
2011/12       5.0       35.7       274.1                  3183.7      2873.8
2012/13       5.0     -193.2       274.1       -91.4      3183.7      3194.1
Economic rate of return: 54.73%
Notes: The financial cost streams (see the following table) have been converted into economic
cost streams using the following conversion factors: Indigenous capital goods: 0.8; indigenous
capital goods with import content: 0.84; revenue expenses: 0.72; Indonesian coal was used to
compute the economic border price for coal.



- 21 -
3. Financial impact
Financial Cost /Benefit Streams
Rs million 1983/84 terms
Fiscal Year  Production   Capital   Operating   Working    Net sales   Net flows
cost       cost      capital    revenues
1983/84                 245.1                                         -245.1
1984/85                  94.0                                          -94.0
1985/86                 111.6                                         -111.6
1986/87                 368.5                                         -368.5
1987/88       0.6       106.7                                         -106.7
1988/89       1.6       149.3                                         -149.3
1989/90       2.5       486.6      122.9        41.0       525.7      -124.8
1990/91       4.0       172.9      240.0        39.0       792.3       340.0
1991/92       4.8       199.7      438.4        66.1       860.9       156.7
1992/93       4.4       305.4      380.6       -19.3       900.4       233.6
1993/94       4.0       336.0      357.8        -7.6       853.7       167.4
1994/95       4.3      -133.6      426.1        22.8       754.8       439.5
1995/96       5.0        96.0      380.7       -15.1       877.4       415.8
1996/97       5.0        96.0      380.7         0.0       877.4       400.6
1997/98       5.0       111.7      380.7                   877.4       385.0
1998/99       5.0       142.3      380.7                   877.4       354.4
1999/00       5.0        5.0       380.7                   877.4       491.6
2000/01       5.0        22.5       380.7                  877.4       474.2
2001/02       5.0        57.4       380.7                  694.2       256.2
2002/03       5.0       111.8       380.7                  694.2       201.7
2003/04       5.0        42.1       380.7                  694.2       271.4
2004/05       5.0        40.2       380.7                  694.2       273.3
2005/06       5.0        36.8       380.7                  694.2       276.7
2006/07       5.0        35.7       380.7                  694.2       277.8
2007/08       5.0       156.4       380.7                  694.2       157.2
2008/09       5.0        44.3       380.7                  694.2       269.2
2009/10       5.0        46.9       380.7                  694.2       266.7
2010/11       5.0        67.0       380.7                  694.2       246.5
2011/12       5.0        44.7       380.7                  694.2       268.8
2012/13       5.0      -241.5       380.7     -126.9       694.2       681.9
Financial rate of return: 15.12%
COMMENT. The following table compares the economic and financial rates of return
estimated at the time of appraisal with the most recent revised estimates. Both, current
estimates of economic and financial rates of return exceed the original estimates made at the
time of appraisal. The main factors behind these improvements in the rates of return are lower-
than-expected equipment costs and slightly higher coal prices; operating cost turned out to be
roughly in line with the original estimates.



- 22 -
Comparison of economic and financial rates of return
Projections at appraisal       Current projections
5 mill. ton    10 mill, ton  5 mill. ton    10 mill. ton
output        output        output         output
Economic rate of return          13.6          16.3          54.7           54.5
Financial rate of return          7.1           9.8          15.1           13.4
The following table shows a comparison of projected and actual trends of Indian coal
prices:
Average coal prices in India, 1984/85 to 1989/90
Rs per ton
Indian fiscal year     Projections aL   Actual
1984/85               183.0          188.2
1985/86               197.2          190.9
1986/87               211.7          202.8
1987/88               227.1          215.0
1988/89               243.7          252.3
1989/90               261.4          273.7
Notes: a/ coal price projections at the time of appraisal.
4. Environmental impact
The following table provides an overview of the environmental issues raised at the
time of appraisal and an environmental review of the mine carried out by a Bank mission in
January 1994.
ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING. The mine site is located on a low plateau bordered on its
south side by a steep escarpment, whose height is about sixty meters. Colony areas and mine
infrastructure are situated at the foot of the escarpment. Before the mine was constructed the
land was largely arid forest land and unoccupied scrubland used mainly for rough grazing.
BASELINE MONITORING. In 1990 NCL carried out a regional monitoring program as
basis against which future trends in environmental quality could be evaluated. As part of this
program, NCL set up[ 36 air quality stations and 24 noise stations. Measurements were taken
during May and June, just before the onset of the monsoon, a time when air quality is most likely
at its worst. Air and noise monitoring was to have been followed by sampling of water quality.
However, there is no evidence that this part of the program was ever carried out.



- 23 -
Environmental      Observations at a12p1raisal              Recent findings
issue
Hydrology     With regard to surface water runoff  Water from the pit sump, along with
and water     from the mine, solid retention dams  surface runoff from the coal handling
qualitv       will be built and relocated as     plant, is discharged into a nearby nallah
management   operations progress.                without any further settling, The nallah
is severely contaminated with coal fines.
Effects of the deep opencast mine on local
groundwater are unknown.
Air qualitv    Dust is the only air pollution    Dust control in the coal handling plant is
and noise     hazard, and will be controlled by    the most advanced of any coal project of
management   adequate measures. Haul roads will  any project the Bank is involved in. All
be periodically watered by special   pit roads are regularly watered. Main
trucks; appropriate dust suppression  haul roads are metalled and permanent
and/or dust extraction equipment    service roads are paved. Greenbelts have
will be installed.                been established around the colony and
along most service roads. Suspended
particulate levels generally comply with
air quality objectives outside the active
mining area.
Land          Only small quantities of top soil are  Impressive tree plantations have been
reclamation    present. Soil conservation will be    established on the tops of external
done whenever feasible.           overburden dumps. Some excellent
Erosion control an prevention    recontouring and planting has been
m ,turfing and revegetation    undertaken on some internal dumps.
Will be undertaken on waste dumps   External dump slopes are long and steep,
willbe ndetakn onwase dmps and cannot be reclaimed without
and exposed slopes. This will also
reduce surface water runoff.      substantial slope reduction and terracing.
Reclamation efforts thus far have been
focused on replanting with trees.
Monitoring    Air quality will be monitored on a    NCL has indicated that environmental
weekly basis.                     monitoring programs have been
implemented. Up to now only data on air
quality during the winter, summer and
monsoon seasons at the guest house and
the Madhauli village have been
collected. Effects of the opencast mine on
local groundwater are unknown, although
since the mine is on top of the escarpment
there are unlikely to be any adverse
effects



- 24 -
5. Social impact
LAND ACQUISITION AND PAPS. By the time the project was appraised the land
(3160ha) for the first phase of the development of the Dudhichua mine had been acquired. The
area was sparsely populated, and according to Coal India's records, acquisition of 3160 ha
affected 63 families. Assuming that an household consists on average of six persons, a total of
378 people were affected by the project. No socio-economic survey had been prepared had been
prepared at the time of appraisal, and there is no record of the number of landless people that
could have been affected by the project. However, NCL is currently carrying out such a survey to
assess the rehabilitation needs of all people affected by the project.
COMPENSATION. Considering that wages in the coal industry are about 8-10 times the
prevailing minimum wage, most project-affected people opt for employment with the coal
companies. Few project-affected people opt for compensation based on 'land for land'. Until
recently, NCL offered employment whenever it acquired three or more hectares of land from an
individual, in addition to the market price of the land, shifting allowance and other benefits.
As far as the Dudhichua Coal Project is concerned, 42 families were resettled(or 252
people) during 1988/89, and another 21 families (or 126 people) in the following year to
Jawahar Nagar on the shore of the nearby Rihand reservoir. A change in the layout of the mine
made it unnecessary to move the remaining two families (or 12 people). Thus, all landed
project-affected people have been resettled. NCL has employed 225 out of the 378 project-
affected people. While a detailed breakdown of the project-affected population is not
available, it can be reasonably concluded that most male adults that had to be resettled
received employment with NCL. Considering the significant difference between farm in comes
and the incomes obtained in the mining industry, most of the project-affected population would
have experienced a considerable improvement in their standard of living.
6. Studies
As part of the project the following studies had been prepared:



- 25 -
Studv           Purpose as Defined at    Status           Impact of study
Appraisal
Coal Transportation   Overall study of how the  Completed    Coal handling arrangements
and Distribution    railway system can best be             at Dudhichua Project were
utilized for carrying coal            set up based on the study.
The present transportation
and distribution system is
adequate to meet coal
production of the project.
Coal Production/    Set up cross checks to   Completed    Long term linkages are
Consumer Linkages   ensure that the totality of            finalized on the basis of this
linkages satisfies optimal            study to the extent possible
situation: establish least-
cost solution for the entire
system
Study on Size and   Determine most efficient   Completed    The results of the study
Efficiency of Dump    size of dump trucks for the          have been used to further
Trucks to be Utilized  mine                                procurement action for the
for Dudhichua Mine                                         mine
Operational Practices Assess the implementation Completed    A 'Project Implementation
in Openpit Mines of   measures to improve the              Manual' and 'Operation
Coal India          efficiency of CIL's major              Management Structure' has
openpit mines                         been made for CIL's projects.
A manual was prepared by
CIL in respect to Dudhichua
mine
Study for Improving   CIL was to review the  Completed    The operational budgetary
the Process of      systems and procedures for             system has been set up to
Formulating and     formulating and                        control the operational
Controlling the     controlling the                        budget at all levels for CIL,
Operational         operational budget at all              subsidiary companies, area
Budgetary System of  levels of the group and              level and unit level. This
Coal India          recommend a plan of action             provides effective
to implement                          mechanism at every cost
improvements                          centers for controlling the
cost including the profits at
different levels of the
organization



- 26 -
G. Status of Covenants
Agreement   Section               Description of Covenants                       Status
LA      2.02(b)Ame  GOI to maintain a Special Account in dollars   In full compliance
nded
LA      3.01(b)     GOI relending to CIL under terms acceptable to  In full compliance
Bank (not less than 12.75 % per annum; repayment
15 years including 5 years grace period)
LA      3.02(a)(i)   Borrower shall initiate a coal transport and  Study has been completed
distribution study by April 30, 1984
LA      3.02(a)(ii)   Borrower shall complete producer/consumer    Study has been completed
linkage study by December 31, 1985
LA      3.02(a)(iii)  Implement recommendations arising from studies    Implementation being carried
out
LA      3.03         Borrower shall provide adequate and timely    In full compliance
railway facilities for coal transportation
LA      3.04         Borrower shall from time to time review linkages    GOI constituted a Standing
between all coalfields and consumers          Linkage Commnittee (SLC)
comprising representatives of
Ministry of Coal, Ministry of
Power, Central Electricity
Authority (CEA), Indian
Railways, CIL, etc., to review
the linkages. SLC meets
biannually and short term SLC
meets once in three months
LA      3.05         Borrower shall promptly grant permission to   In full compliance
import goods covered by contract and make foreign
exchange available
LA      3.06        Audit: Special Account (due within 6 months of    In full compliance
An-eded    Fiscal Year end
LA      4.02         Borrower shall periodically review coal prices to  In full compliance. However,
ensure viability of CIL and progressive       there have been at times
mobilization of additional resources to cover  significant delays in these
increasing proportion of capital expenditures  reviews of coal prices.
PA      2.03        CCL to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank  In full compliance
PA      2.08        CIL and CCL will ensure compliance with        In full compliance
environment and safety standards



- 27 -
Agreement   Section               Description of Covenants                     Status
PA      2.10        CCL will furnish a schedule of project housing and  In full compliance
services facilities and implement
PA      2.11        CCL shall on January 1st each year furnish the  There is a Central Excavation
Bank a report on training activities         Training Institute (CETI) at
Singrauli (NCL, erstwhile part
of CCL). Number of persons
trained in this Institute were
incorporated in every
quarterly report sent to World
Bank
PA      2.14 (a)    CCL will complete a study of truck sizing    Study has been completed
PA      2.14(b)     CCL will retain consultants to review and improve  In full compliance
operational practices and implement their findings
and recommendations
PA      2.15        CCL will produce a project implementation manual  In full compliance
PA      2.16        CIL will complete a study to review systems for  Study has been completed
formulation and control of operational budgets
PA      2.16(iii)    CIL will take appropriate actions to implement  Implementation being carried
recommendations arising from above study (PA,    out
Section 2.16)
PA      3.03        CIL and CCL shall take out insurance against risks In full compliance
in such amounts as will be consistent with
appropriate practice
PA      4.02        Audit: CIL and CCL due within 9 months of the    In full compliance
fiscal year
PA      4.03        CIL will ensure at all times a minimum debt service  In full compliance
coverage of 1.3, a debt equity ratio not exceeding
1.5 and a current ratio of not less than 1.2



- 28 -
H. Use of Bank resources
Stage of     Month  Number  Dav  Specialization  Perforianc             Type of Problems
Pro_jectCycle      /Year    f       in     Represented      e Rating
Field                     status/b
Through
appraisal
Appraisal
through Board
approval
Board approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1    Oct 85     3        11   Economist              2       Weak detailed planing
Engineer                      and scheduling;
Consultant                    equipment availability
and utilization
Supervision 2    Feb 86     3        19   Economist              2       CIL's poor financial
Engineer                      performance
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 3    Aug 86     2        10   Engineers (2)          2
Supervision 4    Dec 86     2        12   Engineers (2)          2
Supervision 5    May 87     4        13   Economist              2
Engineer
Procurement
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 6    Oct 87     5        21   Economnist             2
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 7    Jun 88     4        22   Economist              2
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 8    Jan 89     1        14   Engineer               2



- 29 -
Stage of     Month  Number  Days  Secialization  Perfonrmanc           Type of Problems
Project Cycl    /Year              in     Represented      e Rating
Eiad                     status/b
Persons
Supervision 9    Aug 89     5       15   Economist              1
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 10    Feb 90    5       30   Economnist             1
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Project Officer
Supervision 11    Aug90     3       22   Econornist             I
Engineers (2)
Supervision 12    Feb 91    3        14   Economnist
Engineers (2)
Supervision 13    Oct 91    4        16   Econornist            1
Engineers (2)
Operations
Analyst
Supervision 14   Jul 92     4        18   Economnist            1
Engineers (2)
Operations
Analyst
Supervision 15   Mar 93     3        16   Engineers (2)         1
Operations
Analyst
COMMENTS. Overall, the scope and intensity of supervision seemed to be adequate, in
particular in light of the considerable amount of technical assistance. Management at the
subsidiary level and the project site were interested in the comments made by Bank supervision
missions and receptive to their recommendations.
The only exception seemed to be the procurement and erection of the dragline. Apart
from lengthy delays, supervision mission expressed concern about the poor quality of the
delivered components of this item. In the end, the Bank insisted that Coal India avail itself of
the services of a quality inspector. Subsequent missions some of the parts of the dragline had
been rejected by the quality inspector. NCL staff appeared to be reluctant to exercise the legal
options proposed by the Bank's supervision missions, mainly because the supplier was also an
Indian public sector undertaking. Nevertheless, NCL agreed to take action to exercise the legal
options proposed by the Bank's supervision mission.



- 30 -
Annex 1.1 COAL INDIA LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS
COAL INDIA LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT 80/81-92193
Rs million
80/81    81/82    82/63    83/84    84/85   85/86    86/87     87/88     88        89/90    9011   91/92    92/93
Coal production
(million tons)
Undergroundproduction             61        63       61       61       61       60        60       59       61        60       57        57       58
Open pit production               40        46       54       60       70       74        85      100       110      119      133       147      153
Total production                 101       109      115      121      131      134       145      159      171       179      190       204      211
Saleable production               94       102      110      116      126      129       139      154       165      171      184       200      207
COns (tom): ug                     1         1        1        1        1         1        1        1         I        1        1         1 
Oc                         2         2        2        2        2         2        2        3         3        3        3         4        4
Total                          1        1        1        1         1        1        1         1        1        1         1        1        1
Ems (is)                          50        55       59       79       85       91       107      108      140       146      154       171      202
Revenues
Averageprice(rm/ton)           121       138      156      160      188      191       203      215      252       274      268       307      363
Saies revenues               11,313   14,018   17,064   18,624   23,636   24,564   28,176   33,033   41,595   46,868   49,360   61,357   75,122
Contribution to cpra             0         0      428     -428        0      484       298      -598     -366        0        0         0      416
Total revenues               11,313    14,018   16,636   19,051   23,636   24,079   27,878   33,632   41,961   46,868   49,360   61,357   74,706
Production costs
Salaries & wages              6,860    7,650    8,542   11,708   12,620   13,320   15,497   15,976   20,610   21,208   22,253   24,788   29,008
Overhead                       537       589      753      940      887    1,083      1,347    1,536    1,722    2,208    2,544    2,826    3,653
Stores                        1,524    2,056    2,602    3,015    3,336    3,800    4,419    4,998    5,705    6,738    7,739    9,302   11,076
Power                          541       747      968    1,187    1,437    1,705    2,087    2,360    2,734    3,167    3,707    4,433    5,284
Transportation                 293      404      462       452      503      511       803    1,405    1,048    1,323    1,123      1,577    2,120
Othercosts                     429       681      871    1,043    1,359    2,461     2,190    2,510    3,230    2,863    3,824    4,679    5,506
Total operatng costs         10,183   12,127   14,198   18,344   20,141   22,879   26,342   28,785   35,050   37,505   41,189   47,604   56,646
Depreciation                   735       991    1.344    1,716    2,070    2,500    2,935    3,489    4,014    4.429    5,364    6,274    7,264
Interest                       623       805    1,110    1,324    1,733    2,158     1,501    2,921    2,600    3,402    4,467    5,331    6,841
Total production costs      11,540   13.922   16,652   21,384   23,944   27,537   30,778   35,195   41,664   45,337   51,019   59,210   70,752
Productioncost/ton(rs)         123       137      152      184      191      214       222      229      253      265       277      296       342
Other irwome                    -59      -43      -42      -136     -526     -629      -455     -708     -539     -762      -650     -265     -620
Cmpdiprofitbeforetax             3         4        5       12       10        16       12       14        24       24       21        21       25
Tax on cmpdi profit                                 1        2        3                  4        5         4        6        5         5        6
Cmpdiprofitaftertax              3         4        5       10        7        16        8       10        20       18       16        17       19
Profit from s.Yard/dcc                                      31       44       28        26       11        18        8     -243      -233     -447
Profit before tax             -284        56      -53   -2,427     -781   -4,042   -3,317   -2,247       -199      801   -2,532     1,671    2,913
Tax                              0         0        5        2        3        0         4       14       38        41        5        5         6
Netincofe                      -284       56      -58   -2,429      -783   -4,042   -3,321   -2,260      -236      760   -2,536     1,666    2,907



-31 -
COAL INDIA LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS 80/81-92/93
Rs million
S0/81   81/82   fi2ThQ   a1Lf~ 8    4l8t~  &51t   861S7   87/8S    8S189   89/9    90/91   21122 9        2/93
Assets:
Cash & bank                     773      727    1,075    2,352    1,218    1,1,87    1,417    1,424    1,617    2,299    2,917    1,463    1,866
Coal stock                    2,518    2,918    3,605    4,179    5,242    4,702    5,302    5,805    8,042    8,923   10,215   14,281   16,911
Stores & spares               1,571    2,247    2,821    3,425    3,764    4,030    4,413    4,748    5,062    5,713    6,582    6,953    7,556
Sundry debtors                 1,340    1,768    2,224    3,758    3,731    3,950    4,608    7,227    9,885   14,419   14,338   13,903   20,845
Others                          305      519     658      789    1,250    1,386    3,501    3,828    3,750    4,328    5,664    6,478    7,017
Total cur Assets              6,507    8,179   10,383   14,502   15,205   15,255   19,241   23,032   28,356   35,682   39,716   43,078   54,195
Gross fixed assets           12,393   15,390   20,862   26,144   32,103   40,378   47,011   55,034   64,340   75,069   89,172  104,238  119,024
Less acc. Depreciation        4,213    5,328    6,992    8,724   11,275   14,087   16,612   20,199   24,259   29,005   34,806   41,247   48,539
Net fixed assets              8,179   10,062   13,870   17,419   20,828   26,292   30,399   34,835   40,081   46,064   54,366   62,991   70,486
Capital w.lP                  2,455    4,115    5,114    6,720    7,866    8,341   11,796   14,437   18,242   21,338   21,245   23,731   27,019
Loans & advances              5,497    4,679    5,431    7,147    7,913    7,363    6,690    6,031    5,846    7,184   10,079    8,859   10,229
Total assets                 22,639   27,035   34,798   45,788   51,811   57,250   68,126   78,334   92,525  110,268  125,406  138,659  161,929
Liabilities:
Sundry creditors              4,004    4,594    5,152    7,998    4,324    3,670    3,816    3,631    3,094    3,449    3,637    4,246    5,089
Statutory liabilities           574      726     571      867      790    1,003    1,335    1,971    2,273    5,173    6,012    6,846    9,639
Othercurrentlia               3,200      831    1,241    1,211    5,157    6,862   11,346   11,141   16,481   16,078   19,021   21,601   28,034
S.T.Debts                       418      632     830    1,767    1,340      851    2,243    2,254    2,679    4,360    4,550    5,669    9,318
Total current lia.            8,196    6,784    7,794   11,844   11,611   12,386   18,741   18,997   24,526   29,060   33,221   38,362   52,079
Ltd govt.                    10,780   13,196   15,636   19,457   21,737   25,284   27,156   31,160   33,462   40,382   46,687   49,093   51,554
Cil
Other liabilities              1,261    1,573    1,825    2,954    3,430    3,883    3,476    6,631    7,094    8,117   10,431   11,597   14,769
Total liabilhties            20,237   21,552   25,255   34,255   36,778   41,553   49,373   56,788   65,082   77,559   90,339   99,052  118,402
Share holders' equity:
Paid in capital               9,862   12,869   16,913   21,299   25,567   30,123   35,595   41,203   47,642   52,239   57,133   60,008   60,979
Retained earnings             -7,460   -7,386   -7,370   -9,765  -10,534  -14,426  -16,842  -19,657  -20,199  -19,529  -22,066  -20,401  -17,452
Total Share holders'equlty   2,402    5,483    9,542   11,534   15,033   15,697   18,753   21,546   27,443   32,709   35,067   39,607   43,527
Total liabilities            22,639   27,035   34,798   45,788   51,811   57,250   68,126   78,334   92,525  110,268  125,406  138,659  161,929



- 32 -
COAL INDIA LIMITED
FUND FLOW STATEMENT 80/81-92/93
Rs million
80/81 solS        82       83/f14   S41SS    85/86    86/87 D7i8S    88/S9 u9/0d    90/L9     90/91              9
Sources:
Income before cpra             -284        56      370   -2,856     -783   -3,558   -3,023   -2,859      -603     760   -2,536    1,666    3,323
Cpra                             0         0     -428      428        0     -484      -298     598      366         0        0        0      -416
Depreciation                   692    1,115    1,664    1,732    2,551    2,811    2,525    3,587    4,060    4,747    5,800    6,441    7,292
Ltd interest                   623       805    1,110    1,324    1,733    2.158    1,501    2,921    2,600    3,402    4,467    5,331    6,841
Grossi CG.                     1,031    1,976    2,716      628    3,501      927      705    4,248    6,423    8,909    7,731   13,438   17,040
New equity capital             1,831    3,007    4,044    4,386    4,268    4,556    5,472    5,608    6,438    4,597    4,895    2,874       971
L T.Loan                       2,638    2,745    3,380    3,950    3,550    3,835    4,451    4,309    4,197    8,550    6,909    2,406    4,547
Increase in other liabilities   710      311       253    1,128      476      454     -407    3,154      464    1,023    2,314      1,166    3,172
Total sources                  6,209    8,039   10,392   10,092   11,795    9,772   10,220   17,319   17,521   23,079   21,849    19,885   25,730
Applications:
Investment                    2,889    4,658    6,470    6,888    7,105    8,751   10,088   10,664   13,111   13,826   14,009   17,552   18,075
Debt service:
Principal payment                0       888      939      313    1,086      289    2,578      305    1,895    1,630       603        0    2,086
Interest payment                21       708      956      368    1,590    2,128    3,501      365    3,993    3,997    3,422    5,095    3,461
Decrease in other lia
Inc In w Capital              3,299    1,785    2,026    2,523    2,015   -1,395   -5,947    5,986   -1,478    3,627    3,815    -2,763    2,108
Total applications:            6,209    8,039   10,392   10,092   11,795    9,772   10,220   17,319   17,521   23,079   21,849   19,885   25,730
Ratios:
Current ratio                   0 79     1.21      1.33     1.22     1.31     1.23     1.03     1.21     1 16     1.23     1.20      1.12     1.04
Debt to equity ratio            0.82     0 71     0 62     0.63     0.59     0.62     0 59      0.59     0.55     0.55     0.57     0.55     0.54
Debt service coverage ratio     1.00     1 26     1 41     0.26     1 08     0.23      0.15     0 78     0.96     1.19     0.90      1 47     1.79



- 33 -
Annex 2.1 NORTHERN COALFIELDS LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS
NORTHERN COALFIELDS LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT 80/81-92/93
Rs million
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/0   90/91    91/92   92/93
Coal production
(million tons)
Underground production            0        0       0        0       0        0        0
Open pit production              14       17      20       23      28       31       31
Total production                 14       17      20       23       28      31       31
Saleable production              14       16      18       22       27      31       30
Oms (ton): ug
Oc                            7       7        8       9        9        8        7
Total                        7        7        8       9        9        8       7
Ems (rs)                         94      111     134      132      150     164      193
Revenues
Average price(rs/ton)         166      188     227      260     269      314      351
Sales revenues              2,245    2,929    3,986    5,746    7,204    9,611   10,534
Contribution to cpra          762      898    1,656    2,756    2,702    3,052    1,447
Total revenues               1,484    2,031    2,330    2,991    4,502    6,559    9,087
Production costs
Salaries & wages              181     219      291      348     476      611      745
Overhead                       32      36       41       52     146      171      193
Stores                        507      698     806    1,131    1,481    1,810    2,221
Power                          94      132      157     222      299      394     481
Transportation                 17       42      38      109      122     291      265
Other costs                    91      205     144      -19      -97     677      826
Total operating costs         922    1,331    1,477    1,842    2,427    3,954    4,730
Depreciation                  327     431      499      649     997    1,239    1,339
Interest                      250      302     319      479      853    1,024    1,111
Total production costs       1,499    2,064    2,295    2,970    4,276    6,216    7,180
Production cost/ton (rs)      110      132      131     134      160     203      240
Other income                    0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Profit before tax             -15     -32       36       21     226      342    1,907
Tax                             0        0       0       30        0        0       0
Net income                    -15      -32      36       -9      226     342    1,907



-34 -
NORTHERN COALFIELDS LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS 80/81-92/93
Rs million
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93
Assets:
Cash & bank                       5       56      80        4       74      44       88
Coal stock                      169      207     120      339      429     758      906
Stores & spares                 582      804     991    1,244    1,529    1,495    2,126
Sundry debtors                  237      694    1,194    1,774    2,210    1,586    952
Others                          766      912     962    1,038    1,585    1,641    1,711
Total cur.Assets               1,759    2,672    3,346    4,399    5,826    5,523    5,782
Gross fixed assets             5,994    7,161    9,778   12,065   15,821   18,598   20,765
Less acc. Depreciation        1,671    2,237    2,983    3,863    5,035    6,355    7,746
Net fixed assets              4,324    4,924    6,796    8,202   10,786   12,243   13,019
Capital w.I.P.                 2,508    3,875    4,892    6,446    5,348    5,374    5,996
Loans & advances                457      918     661      479     634      544      476
Total assets                   9,047   12,390   15,695   19,525   22,594   23,684   25,272
Liabilities:
Sundry creditors                514      333     454      405      466     467      522
Statutory liabilities            31       48      61       59       66     204      198
Other current lia.              329      573     677      540      855    1,126    1,821
S.T.Debts                                                   7                       201
Total current lia.              874      955    1,192    1,011    1,386    1,797    2,742
Ltd: govt.
Cil                         4,063    7,341    7,259    9,534    9,715    9,580    8,312
Other liabilities
Total liabilities             4,936    8,295    8,450   10,546   11,101   11,377   11,054
Share holders' equity:
Paid in capital               4,126    4,142    7,257    9,000   11,287   11,760   11,764
Retained earnings               -15      -47     -12      -20     205      548    2,455
Total Share holders' equity    4,111    4,094    7,245    8,980   11,493   12,308   14,219
Total liabilities             9,047   12,390   15,695   19,525   22,594   23,684   25,272



- 35 -
NORTHERN COALFIELDS LIMITED
FUND FLOW STATEMENT 80/81-92/93
Rs million
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93
Sources:
Income before cpra             747      866   1,691    2,747   2,927    3,395    3,354
Cpra                          -762    -898  -1,656  -2,756  -2,702   -3,052   -1,447
Depreciation                  327     566      746     880   1,172    1,320   1,391
Ltd interest                  250      302     319     479      853    1,024   1,111
Gross i.C.G.                   562      836   1,100   1,350   2,251    2,686   4,409
New equity capital            4,126      16   3,115    1,743   2,287     473        4
L.T.Loan                      4,063   3,278     -82   2,275      180    -135  -1,268
Total sources                 8,751   4,130   4,133   5,369    4,719    3,024    3,145
Applications:
Investrnent                  8,503   2,534   3,634   3,840   2,658    2,803   2,788
Debt service:
Principal payment
Interest payment
Decrease in other lia.
Inc. In w.Capital             248   1,596      499   1,528   2,060      221      357
Total applications:           8,751   4,130   4,133   5,369    4,719    3,024   3,145
Ratios:
Current ratio                  2.01    2.80    2.81    4.35    4.20      3.07    2.11



