Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COP
Report No. P-3735-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$151.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
February 27, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Woi



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 23, 1984)
US$1.00      =  RslO.694274
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.093507
Rs 1 million = US$93,507
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs9.75,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCL  -  Central Coalfields Limited
CIL  -  Coal India Limited
CMPDI - Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
FRR  -  financial rate of return
GOI  -  Government of India
IR   -  Indian Railways
tpy  -  tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:              Coal India, Limited (CIL)
Amount:                   US$151.0 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                    Repayment over 20 years, inckuding five years' grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Re-lending Terms:         GOI to CIL for a period of 15 years, including five
years grace, at an effective interest rate of not
less than 12.75% per annum. CIL to Central
Coalfields Limited (CCL) for a period of 15 years,
including five years of grace, at an effective
interest rate of not less than 12.75% per annum.
Project Description:    The objective of the project is to meet the
increasing demand for coal in the power sector
through the planned development of the Dudhichua
mine, thus contributing to an expansion of power
generation, on which India's continued economic
growth depends. It consists of construction and
start-up of facilities for an open-pit mine in the
Singrauli colfield in the States of Uttar Pradesh
and Madhya Pradesh, and would provide equipment
and necessary infrastructural facilities to estab-
lish a production level of 5 million tons per
annum. The project will also support institu-
tional development of CIL in open-pit mining
procedures, project management, budgeting and cost
control. It will address important sectoral
issues related producer-consumer linkages, and
coal transportation and distribution. The project
faces minimal technical and marketing risks. Any
possible financial risk is mitigated by GOI's
commitment to a pricing policy which ensures the
continued financial viability of CIL.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                          Local        Foreign         Total
Equipment and Spares                       34.7          80.3           115.0
Coal Handling Plant                        23.9           7.3            31.2
Land and Civil Works                       31.1           1.6            32.7
Engineering and Training                    2.4            -              2.4
Preoperating Expenses                      27.3           3.0            30.3
Technical Assistance                        0.3           0.7             1.0
Sub-total                               119.7          92.9          212.6
Taxes and Duties                           46.1            -             46.1
Base Cost Estimate                      165.8          92.9          258.7
Physical Contingencies                     12.7           5.2            17.9
Price Contingencies                        47.5          28.2            75.7
Installed Cost                          226.0         126.3          352.3
Working Capital                             9.3           1.0            10.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      235.3         127.3          362.6
Interest During Construction                9.6           0.7            10.3
Front-end Fee on IBRD Loan                   -            0.4             0.4
Total Financing Required                244.9         128.4          373.3
Financing Plan:
Equity:
Government of India            141.9           -             141.9
CIL Cash Generation             44.8           -              44.8
186.7           -             186.7
Long-Term Debt:
Government of India             35.6           -              35.6
IBRD                            22.6         128.4           151.0
Total Financing                        244.9          128.4          373.3



-iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:                              (US$ millions)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89         FY90    FY91
Annual                  18.2    34.0    17.5    39.0         10.3    16.0    16.0
Cumulative              18.2    52.2    80.7   108.7    119.0   135.0   151.0
Rate of Return: About 13%-14%.
Appraisal Report: No. 4714-IN, dated February 28, 1983.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$151.0 million, including US$0.4 million
as capitalized front-end fee, to accelerate the expansion of thermal coal
production by developing a large scale open-pit mine to feed thermal power
plants. Amortization would be over 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate. The Government of India (GOI) would
onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to Coal India Limited (CIL) for 15
years, including five years of grace at an effective interest rate of not less
than 12.75% per annum. CIL would make available the proceeds of the proposed
loan for Central Coalfields Ltd. (CCL) for 15 years, including five years of
grace, at an effective interest rate of not less than 12.75% per annum. GOI
would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Nhava Sheva Port Project
(No. P-3724-IN), dated February 17, 1984.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83.  Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion oc3 domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percenta-e of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tiori of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normnal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this st:ill
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengtlhen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important



-4-
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world imarket conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India-s favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits oE
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development



-5-
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreemernt
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, t:ran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-



-6-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
IS.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India-s current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for  url.'Lr
investment, and by fostering the development of export: and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of paym.enus.  In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, includinig an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of



-.7-
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a imeasurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty reinains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
smnall farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 9 comumitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 tmillion sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country s development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financiTig for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
merLt finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
out;ut in both the agricultural and iadustrial sectors.  Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investneuits in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority.  Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of extec!aal resources it:.
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discllssions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA.  However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance caa be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million re,aatl to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
General
29.       Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear
power) accounts for about 46% of total energy consumption in India, with
the balance (53%) being derived from non-commercial sources such as
firewood and agricultural and animal wastes. During the past ten years,
the growth of energy consumption in India averaged 4% per annum, which was
marginally below GDP growth for the period. Over the same period, commer-
cial energy consumption increased by 5.3% per annum, but this was not
sufficiently rapid to raise per capita consumption of commercial primary
energy above 166 kg of oil equivalent, or about 330 kg of coal equivalent,
which is half the average for low income developing countries. The share
of oil products in commercial primary energy consumption at 23% is low for
developing countries, but it is growing rapidly.  On the other hand, the
share of coal in commercial primary energy consumption is 66% and is high
for countries with similar income levels. Firewood is the most widely
consumed fuel in India, accounting for about 65% of total non-commercial
energy consumption. Other sources of fuel, such as vegetable and animal
wastes, account for the remaining 35% of non-commercial energy
consumption.
30.       Installed electric generating capacity in 1981/82 is estimated
at 33,000 MW, of which thermal electric plants account for about 60%.
Potential demand for power has consistently exceeded supply in recent
years. The estimated deficit (calculated as actual supply compared to
potential unrestricted demand) stood at about 13% in 1980/81.
31.       Inadequate supplies of energy have been a major constraint
hindering India's economic growth. Although considerable indigenous
resources of energy exist, their development has not kept pace with
demand. In November 1979, a high-level Working Group on Energy Policy
recommended measures to improve the efficiency with which energy resources
are utilized, especially in the transportation sector, reduce the energy
intensity of industrial investment, and promote inter-fuel substitution
from commercial to non-commercial and renewable energy resources. These
recommendations address the need to contain commercial energy consumption
without impeding economic growth. More specifically, GOI's energy policy
is centered on maximizing the development of domestic fuel resources.
Consequently, development of domestic petroleum reserves through national
oil companies and by production-sharing agreements with foreign oil com-
panies has received priority attention. The development of domestic coal
resources or electricity generated from coal or hydropower, is also a
central element of the Government's energy policy.
Coal
32.       Coal remains the most important source of commercial energy in
India. Total reserves are estimated at 112 billion tons, of which about
half (equivalent to 30 billion tons of oil equivalent [toe]) are con-



-11-
sidered recoverable. In contrast, hydrocarbon reserves are in the order
of about 6.5 billion tons of oil equivalent.
33.       Of India's coal reserves, 78% are thermal coal, used primarily
for heat and steam generation, and 22% are coking (i.e. metallurgical)
coal used in steel making. The reserves are found mainly in Eastern India
where extensive exploration has taken place in the past. More recently,
the rapid growth of demand by consumers in western India, especially in
the Bombay area and in Gujarat, has generated a need for developing new
coal deposits in Central India. In order to meet this need, priorities
have been adjusted to emphasize coal exploration in Maharashtra and west-
ern Madhya Pradesh. There is a wide variation in the quality of thermal
coal reserves. On the whole, however, most thermal coals are of extremely
poor quality. Useful calorific value 1/ ranges from 1,300 kcal/kg to over
6,200 kcal/kg. The bulk of the thermal coal reserves are in the
3,500 kcal/kg to 4,500 kcal/kg range of useful calorific value. There is
also a wide variation in the quality of coking coal reserves, with ash
content varying from 18% to over 35%.
34.       Coal production was 130.6 million tons in 1982/83 of which about
60% was from underground mines, and the balance from open pit mines.
Total employment in the coal sector in India in December 1982 was about
723,000 employees, of whom about 50% were in clerical or unskilled manual
grades. The degree of mechanization in Indian underground mines is low
compared to the major underground coal-producing countries elsewhere in
the world. Most Indian open-pit coal mines are presently small- to
medium-size compared with the world coal industry (1-3 million tons per
year [tpyl). The Indian coal industry is progressively moving towards
larger mines and equipment. This is desirable, since larger operations
offer economies of scale and lower unit production costs.
Sector Institutions
35.       In 1975 most Indian collieries were nationalized and their
operations consolidated under a holding company, Coal India Limited (CIL),
which accounts for close to 90% of India's coal production. The other
producers are Singareni Collieries Limited, which is owned by the Central
Government and the Government of Andhra Pradesh, and captive coking coal
mines of the privately-owned Tata Iron and Steel Company and the
Government-owned Indian Iron and Steel Company. Lignite mining in Tamil
Nadu is concentrated in the hands of a Government-owned company. The
Department of Coal, Ministry of Energy, is responsible for policy-making
and the administration of production, supply, distribution and pricing in
the coal sector, while the Planning Commission is in charge of reviewing
production and investment programs in the sector and establishing linkages
between new mines and major consumers.
1/ Useful calorific value is derived from the gross calorific value
after adjustments for ash and moisture content.



-12-
Coal Transportation
36.       Coal is transported primarily by rail (70%), roadways (25%) and,
to a very limited extent, by coastal barges and ropeways. In 1981/82, the
average haulage distance for coal was 566 km. The performance of Indian
Railways (IR) in carrying coal and other bulk goods has often been disap-
pointing so that coal traffic has had to be carried by road, a relatively
more expensive mode of transportation and one which directly increases the
need for imported petroleum products. Operational improvements have been
introduced in the IR to increase train speeds and sizes, and major invest-
ments made for the acquisition of new rolling stock, track renewal, track
electrification, and workshop and plant modernization. Moreover, progress
is being made in the installation of a real time computerized operating
information system, and upgraded telecommunication systems. Nevertheless,
there is a need for a systematic analysis to be undertaken of coal haulage
which would indicate how the railway system can be best utilized for
carrying coal, particularly to consumers in Northern and Western India.
Such a study would need to (a) define improvements in systems for handling
and transporting coal, including fixed loading and unloading facilities,
wagon design and wagon utilization; (b) establish an optimal investment
program based on reviews of investment priorities and payoffs; and
(c) identify what alternative modes of transportation will be necessary to
make up any shortfall in railway carrying capacity for coal. GOI would
initiate the necessary study by April 30, 1984. GOI would exchange views
with the Bank on the terms of reference of the study and on the findings
of the study prior to their implementation (Section 3.02(a)(i), Loan
Agreement).
The Market for Indian Coal
37.       India is the world's seventh largest producer and fifth largest
consumer of hard coal. However, India's participation in the interna-
tional trade has been minor. It has occasionally exported small quan-
tities of thermal coal (0.1 million tpy to 0.7 million tpy) to neighboring
countries. More recently, it has became a minor importer of coking coal
(1.0 million tpy to 1.5 million tpy). In both cases, India's contribution
to world trade is less than 1%. Despite its large thermal coal reserve
base, there will be little surplus coal after domestic requirements have
been met. Moreover, coal transportation infrastructure for exports is
inadequate, while the quality of Indian thermal coals makes it unattrac-
tive for consumers who have other international sources of supply.
38.       International thermal coal prices rose considerably in the mid
to late 1970s and early 1980s as consumers shifted to coal following the
1973 and 1979 oil price increases. Since 1982, coal prices dropped
sharply due to oversupply and depressed demand. For the future, there are
good long run supply prospects for coal and plentiful reserves available
for development in Australia, South Africa, Canada and the United States.
Therefore, thermal and coking coal prices are expected to increase only by
1%-2% in real terms over the next decade.
39.       Total coal production in India has increased from 56 million
tons in 1960/61 to about 130 million tons in 1982/83. Production is
expected to reach 153 million tons by 1984/85, the end of the Sixth Plan
period.  Supply projections for 1989/90 indicate 224 million tons.  The



-13-
most important consuming sector is the power sector which accounted for
34% of coal consumption in 1981/82. Other important consuming sectors are
steel (for coking coal), whose share of consumption has remained constaLnt
at 21%, and other industries (principally cement and fertilizer) and the
railways.
40.       Based on recent trends in the power and steel sectors, coal
demand projections for 1984/85 have been assessed at 153-158 million tons.
By that time, therefore, thermal coal supply and demand are expected to be
broadly in balance, although some temporary shortages may occur. Coking
coal imports of 1.0-2.0 million tpy are likely to be required. Current
tentative estimates of demand by 1989/90 are for about 232 million tpy.
Supply Allocation and Marketing
41.       The supply allocation and marketing of coal in India are
administered by the Government. Long-term linkages of suppliers to major
consumers are set by a standing interministerial committee, while alloca-
tion of coal to small consumers is undertaken by producers in accordance
with guidelines established by the Government. The linkages which match
new coal consumers with new large-scale mines on an incremental basis are
made following a procedure which aims at ensuring the optimality of the
linkages. However, only limited cross checks are made to see if, country-
wide, the linkages need to be revised. Furthermore, because of the size
of the system, no systematic cross check is available to ensure that,
overall, the linkages are optimal. In order to systematize reviews of the
linkages, GOI would complete by December 31, 1985 a study to develop
analytical tools for the establishment of optimal production, transport
and utilization linkages. GOI would exchange views with the Bank on the
terms of reference of the study and on the findings of the study prior to
their implementation (Section 3.02(a)(ii), Loan Agreement).
42.       Given that supply allocations, linkages and pricing are
administered by the Government, the main marketing functions undertaken by
the coal producers relate to the booking of orders, dispatch of coal,
invoice for orders, receipt of payment, monitoring coal quality and ensur-
ing that grade and delivery specifications are satisfied.
43.       Major consumers have reported a growing incidence of poor
quality thermal coals resulting in operational inefficiencies, such as
high equipment maintenance costs, and increased transportation costs for
consumers, because of the need to ship extra quantities of coal to make up
for lower qualities. The principal reason appears to be that insufficient
attention has been paid to coal screening, deshaling, stockpiling and
dispatch methods. Also, the economics of washing thermal coals have not
been systematically studied. Recognizing the need to ensure the supply of
coal of suitable and predictable quality, GOI set up a committee in July
1982 to carry out a study on coal quality focusing on these issues and
their incidence on the power sector. The study was completed in late 1983
and is currently under review by GOI. Some of the main recommendations
emphasize the need for reviewing linkages periodically, improving lcoading
and transportation facilities, making more extensive use of coal prepara-
tion plants, improving sampling arrangements and introducing quality-
related bonus and penalties on supply contracts. GOI expects to complete



-14-
its review of the committee's report in May 1984, at which time it would
be made available to the Bank for comment.
Prices and Pricing Policy
44.        Coal prices have been directly or indirectly administered by the
Government since before independence. From 1944 to 1975, average prices
increased from Rs 11 per ton to Rs 63 per ton and were generally suffi-
cient for most producers to generate small profits. In July 1975, in an
attempt to keep the price of coal low to the consumer, thereby encouraging
the substitution of coal for oil, a new price schedule was issued by GOI
which permitted producers to cover only their cash operating costs. No
provision for depreciation was made. Large losses to producers resulted
from this policy. Government loans were required to cover these losses.
In addition, funds for investment needed to be provided from Central
budgetary sources.
45.       A new direction in energy pricing was introduced by the
Government in the Sixth Plan document which states that "in the past, the
pricing of energy has not always reflected either the true cost to the
economy or helped to ensure the financial viability of the energy
industries. This cannot be allowed to continue for long." Starting in
July 1979, and continuing in February 1981, May 1982 and January 1984, GOI
authorized four price increases amounting to 55% in real terms compared
with the price levels prevailing during 1978/79. Current coal prices (at
minehead) for the different grades of thermal coals range from Rs 61 to
Rs 284 per ton and are based on useful heating value. For coking coal the
range varies from Rs 175 to Rs 450 per ton, depending on ash content.
The differentials for higher grades of both coking and thermal coal have
been substantially increased compared with lower grades of coal in the
latest price increase. This is considered an important improvement to
bring relatively scarce better grades of coal in line with their oppor-
tunity cost. Prices are set on a minehead basis with consumers paying
freight costs from the mine to the point of consumption. Recent price
increases have enabled CIL to become profitable in 1981/82 and 1982/83
after incurring losses over the previous five successive years.
46.        The Government's pricing policy for public enterprises is to
ensure their financial viability and to provide for a reasonable rate of
return on capital employed under conditions of efficient operation.
Consideration has also been given to permit such enterprises to generate
sufficient funds to cover their financial needs, including servicing of
long-term debt and mobilizing funds for future investments. With respect
to CIL, the May 1982 price adjustment was based upon the principle of
recovering the full cost of production, subject to satisfactory operating
norms, and allowing for a 10% return on assets.
47.        In order to examine more fully the implications of its pricing
policies for the coal industry, to define mechanisms to implement those
policies and to see if any alternative policies warrant consideration, GOI
commissioned the Bureau of Industrial Costs and Prices (BICP) to undertake
a detailed study of coal pricing in early 1982. BICP's preliminary find-
ings recognize the need for coal prices to continue to increase in real
terms in order to improve further CIL's financial position and resource
mobilization in the sector, and to reflect more adequately the cost of



-15-
coal to the economy. A BICP draft report was submitted to GOI in July
1983. While the Government has accepted BICP's premises, it has not yet
completed its review of the whole report. Therefore, the January 1984
price increase was not based on announced pricing criteria. In practice,
however, the new price schedule will provide a reasonable rate of return
and resource mobilization for the sector for 1984/85. GOI has also indi-
cated that a further review of prices will take place by March 1985.
48.       Most Indian thermal coals are extremely low in quality and are,
therefore, not economically tradeable. However, such coals are economic
compared with other possible sources of energy such as imported coal or
oil, and it is therefore economic for India to produce them. In these
circumstances and in view of the abundant reserves of this low quality
coal, the economic efficiency price for thermal coals becomes their long
run marginal cost.
49.       With regard to coking coal, however, border prices represent
efficiency pricing because domestic coking coal (about 20% of Indian
production) can be directly substituted for imported coking coal. Current
price schedules for coking coal do not fully reflect border prices.
However, they reflect grade-wise differences by adding a substantial
premium to higher grades, thus reducing considerably the gap with border
prices. The introduction of premia for higher coal grades is expected to
act as an incentive for improving quality control at the mines.
50.       Under the project, GOI would review prices periodically with a
view to ensuring, under conditions of efficient operation, the financial
viability of CIL, as well as progressive mobilization of additional
resources to cover an increasing proportion of capital expenditures in the
coal sector (Section 4.02, Loan Agreement). Whether based on long-run
marginal costs or the application of a 10% return on CIL's assets, prices
would, by 1989/90, need to rise by 5.5% to 7.5% in real terms over current
levels. Financial projections for the project have been prepared on the
basis of prices being in line with long-run marginal costs. The results
show that the project is financially viable, and that through the project
period CIL will remain financially sound. Moreover, assuming that coal
prices are consistently reviewed following the above principles, the
proportion of CIL's investment requirements, which will be generated from
within the coal sector, would rise from about 45% at present to about 70%
by 1989/90. Therefore, GOI's approach to coal pricing is generally
satisfactory, and is sufficient basis for the Bank to proceed with an
investment in coal production.
Project Sponsors
51.       The CIL group of companies was established in September 1975,
as a holding company and five wholly-owned subsidiaries. CIL operates
semi-autonomously under the direction of an eleven-member Board of
Directors, headed by a Chairman and Managing Director appointed by the
President of India.
52.       The CIL group is a very large and complex organization.  Since
its inception in 1975, and particularly during the last five years, it has
made considerable strides in consolidating its organization and implement-
ing accounting and other operational control systems. CIL is now able to
play a major role in coordinating the implementation of sector policies.



-16-
Since CIL is responsible for decision-making on financial and administra-
tive matters, and is the borrower of all long-term loans, including for-
eign funds, for the coal sector, it has been considered as the primary
beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan.
53.       CIL introduced a cost control system for its operations three
years ago, which generates standardized cost information at the mine
level. However, by and large, the system is not being used as a manage-
ment tool. Production managers' attention is mainly oriented towards
meeting production targets, so that managers tend to view the cost control
system as an accounting exercise. In order to make the cost control
system a more effective management device, CIL would, by June 30, 1985,
carry out a study of its procedures for formulating and controlling its
operational budget and thereafter implement proposed improvements arising
out of the study. Such a study would be carried out under terms of
reference which have been reviewed by the Bank. The Bank would be fur-
nished with and be given an opportunity to comment on the results of the
study prior to its implementation (Section 2.16, Project Agreement).
54.       Open-pit mining accounted for 47% of CIL production during 1982.
In open-pit mines, operating efficiency of major equipment is below inter-
national standards, particularly with respect to dump trucks. The reasons
for this low efficiency appear to be inadequate field supervision, and
poor service scheduling in relation to shift schedules. Other areas for
improvement are blasting techniques, haul road construction and
maintenance, truck dispatching, preventive maintenance routines and equip-
ment overhaul schedules. In order to improve the operational efficiency
of open-pit mines, CIL would carry out by June 30, 1985 a study of operat-
ing practices with respect to open-pit mining. The study would be under-
taken by consultants under terms of reference, and with qualifications,
experience, and under selection procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 2.03 and 2.14(b), Project Agreement). A study to optimize the
size of dump trucks would also be undertaken by CCL, with consultant
assistance (Sections 2.03 and 2.14(a), Project Agreement). The Bank would
review and comment on the results of both studies prior to their
implementation.
55.       Up to 1980/81, CIL had incurred successive losses, which
resulted from low coal prices, and an emphasis on increasing coal produc-
tion without due regard to cost effectiveness and high production costs.
Over the past two years, CIL's financial position has improved con-
siderably as a result of the successive price increases referred to in
para 45 above. Under the project, CIL would benefit from the application
of an adequate pricing system. It will follow prudent financial practices
and maintain financial ratios acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.03,
Project Agreement).
56.       Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) is the subsidiary of CIL that
will own and execute the Dudhichua project. It operates 57 coal mines,
coal washeries and two coke ovens. Since the formation of the CIL group,
CCL has achieved the best production and productivity increases of any of
the CIL subsidiaries. While this is partly explained by CCL having rela-
tively easier mining conditions and a higher proportion of open-pit mine
production than for the other CIL subsidiaries, CCL's development has also
benefitted from a strong management team who have emphasized, on the one



-17-
hand, cost control measures in the labor intensive underground mines and,
on the other hand, rapid development of new capital intensive open-pit
mines. CCL has been profitable since 1979/80. It is currently in a sound
financial position, made a small profit in 1982/83 and is expected to
remain in a relatively healthy financial position during the project
period. For the future, CCL is expected to almost double its production
from 30.1 million tons in 1981/82 to 58 million tons in 1989/90, an annaual
average growth rate of 8.5%. As in the case of CIL, the analysis of CCL
investment program indicates that CCL's sequence of mine development
generally follows least cost solutions. The investment required for these
mines in the period 1981/82-1989/90 is of the order of US$1.5 billion.
CIL's accounts and those of its subsidiaries are audited annually by
statutory auditors (a partnership of independent chartered accountants)
appointed by the Government of India in consultation with the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India. These arrangements are satisfactory. CIL
and CCL would submit audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (Section 4.02, Project Agreement).
Development Strategy and Investment Plan
57.       In order to achieve its planned expansion of production, CIL has
based its expansion program on opening and expanding open-pit mines. This
is considered a sound approach. Total investment during the period
1983-89, associated with the expansion plan and for replacement of exist-
ing assets, has been estimated at Rs 96 billion (US$9.9 billion) in
1982/83 prices, and includes an estimated foreign exchange requirement of
about Rs 18 billion (US$1.9 billion). With respect to foreign financing,
bilateral sources of assistance (British, Russian) are already earmarked
for particular mining operations. CIL has also recently contracted a loan
of L60 million from a consortium of commercial banks. While CIL's invest-
ment program is a major undertaking by any standards, it is not
anticipated that GOI or CIL will encounter any undue difficulty in raising
the foreign exchange required to finance it. A substantial portion of the
local currency financing required will be generated from within the coal
sector (see para 50 above).
Bank Group Activities in the Energy Sector
58.       The principal focus of Bank Group lending for energy development
has been the power sector which, over a period of 30 years, has benefitted
from 29 operations, totalling more than US$3 billion. Four loans, totall-
ing about US$938 million, have been made for petroleum development. In
addition, the Bank made one loan for a coking coal project to the Indian
Iron and Steel Company (US$35 million Loan 290-P-IN, dated August 9,
1961). It financed the foreign exchange costs of equipment for a variety
of existing and new coal mines. Project execution took over five years,
two years longer than appraisal targets, on account of delays in issuing
import licenses and shortages of counterpart funds from participating
mines. Since the loan closed well before the institution of evaluation
procedures within the Bank, no completion or audit report was preparecL.
Bank Group activity in the sector was resumed in 1980 with the Coal Sector
Report 3601-IN, dated September 14, 1982. This comprehensive review
covered critical areas of investment, exploration, production, implementa-
tion and operating efficiencies, transportation problems, and financial
and pricing issues. The sector review has been an important vehicle for



-18-
pursuing measures which will enhance sector planning capabilities. The
Government accepted many of the recommendations made in it and has begun
implementing measures to improve the efficiency of existing operations and
rationalize the pricing regime. Subsequently, GOI requested Bank Group
financing for projects which would increase the production of both coking
and thermal coals. The Dudhichua (Thermal) Coal Project would be the
first of these. The rationale for the Bank's further participation in the
coal sector rests on the measures proposed under the project to support
further improvements in the operating efficiency of open-pit mines, cost
control and budgeting, project management, coal transportation and
distribution, and to address pricing and resource mobilization issues.
Moreover, financial support for projects of this kind will permit shifts
to more mechanized modes of production. These issues are comprehensive
and wide-ranging, so that solutions to them could take considerable time.
It is intended, therefore, that the Dudhichua project be the first of a
series of operations in the coal sector, which will be used both as
vehicles for the successive resolution of the issues outlined above, and
for the identification of further areas for improving sector planning and
execution capabilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       The project was identified in July 1982, and appraised in March
1983. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4714-IN, dated February 28, 1984)
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Negotiations
took place in Washington, D.C. in January 1984. The Government of India,
CIL and CCL were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. N. Misra,
Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.
Project Obiectives and Description
60.       The proposed project supports the Government's policy of maxi-
mizing the development of indigenous energy sources, and of accelerating
thermal power generation considered essential for future economic growth.
The strategy adopted by GOI for meeting the required increase in thermal
power generation is to accelerate the expansion of thermal coal production
by developing large-scale open-pit mines. The Singrauli coalfield is
located about 500 km west of Calcutta, on the Madhya Pradesh/Uttar Pradesh
border. The mining area has been divided into 11 separate blocks. Three
coal seams, totalling 345 million tons of mineable reserves, have been
identified for open-pit mining under the proposed project. At full
development, the project area will cover about 8.7 sq km. The coal to be
produced at Dudhichua is classified as Grade E coal with a useful
calorific value of about 3,400 kcal/kg. The mining plan calls for the
production of 5 million tpy by year 9 (Stage I of the project, supported
by the proposed Bank loan) and of 10 million tpy at final capacity in year
14. The long development period is due to the topography in the box-cut
area of the pit, which will require substantial overburden removal, prin-
cipally of sandstone and shale, during the initial mining years. The
overburden will be drilled, blasted and removed. Coal, after blasting,
will be loaded and hauled to a crusher station outside the pit. After
crushing, the coal will be moved by conveyor system to a coal handling
plant for transport to the train loading station at a new railway spur.
The project also addresses important sectoral issues through a number of



-19-
studies and/or actions designed to initiate improvements in the operating
performance and further development of the coal sector over the long term.
61.        The total manpower requirements at a production level of 5
million tpy is 2,340 employees. A satisfactory training plan has been
prepared, which provides for the training of 304 persons annually for a
total of 1,824 man-months. CCL would, commencing January 1, 1985, provide
the Bank with an annual training report for Dudhichua which addresses,
inter-alia, the past year's results compared with the planned target, and
forecast enrollment for the coming year and measures to be taken to rec-
tify any unsatisfactory performance, as required (Section 2.11, Project
Agreement).
Infrastructure Facilities
62.        Maintenance, warehouse and service facilities will be con-
structed south of the mine and adjacent to the existing railway. Water
will be supplied by the integrated water supply system for the Singrauli
coalfield, which draws water from the nearby Rihand reservoir. There is
ample power available in the area to meet the project's requirement. It
will be provided by the State Electricity Boards of Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh. CCL would make satisfactory arrangements with the State
Electricity Boards and Water Authorities of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh for power and water supplies to the project (Section 3.05, Project
Agreement). A total of 1,638 dwellings and associated service facilities
will be constructed on a new 200-acre residential site near the Jayant
township. All land required for the project industrial sites and
township, some 7,900 acres in total, has been acquired and is available.
Marketing Arrangements
63.        At full production, the first stage of the Dudhichua project
will supply 95% of the coal requirements of three thermal power plants in
Western India, namely, Wanakbori in Gujarat, Kota in Rajasthan, and
Trombay IV in Maharashtra. All these plants are well under construction
and will be commissioned in advance of the development of Dudhichua.
These three plants are located at considerable distances from the project
area. In the present circumstances and probably throughout the 1980s, the
linkage of Dudhichua's output to these three plants provides the best
alternative to meet their coal requirements. However, if viable project
alternative sources of supply are found nearer the power plants, or if
Trombay is switched to gas, which is feasible given its proximity to
Bombay High, the linkages now established for Dudhichua's output would
need to be re-examined. GOI would continue to review, at appropriate
intervals, the linkages established from major coalfields to principal
consumers, in particular those of Dudhichua, and revise them if necessary
to ensure that optimal allocations are continually made (Section 3.04,
Loan Agreement).
64.        An analysis of the railway routes for transporting Dudhichua
coal to the above mentioned three power plants in Western India has iden-
tified several potential bottlenecks that will require improvement. Some
steps have been taken by IR to improve capacity on the routes in question
by adding track sections in critical areas, by completing electrification
of certain links and by improvements in motor power and equipment.



-20-
Further improvement measures are included in the proposed Railways
Electrification Project now under consideration by IR and the Bank Group.
One bottleneck which requires special attention is a severe grade (ghat)
north of Bombay where delays in the downward direction occur due to inef-
ficient train braking systems. Measures have recently been taken to
overcome the rail capacity problem and provide for more effective coal
movement on the gradient section, including the utilization of improved
braking systems. Some re-routing of traffic has also been undertaken. To
ensure satisfactory delivery of coal to consumers, GOI would take all such
action as may be necessary to provide adequate and timely railway
facilities to transport the project's output to designated consumers
(Section 3.03, Loan Agreement).
Environment
65.       Environmental protection measures for the project will be the
responsibility of CCL and CMPDI, and will be in accordance with the Water
(Pievention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 and the Air Act (Preven-
tion and Control of Pollution) of 1981, both of which prescribe measures
and tolerance limits in line with acceptable standards in the industry.
Erosion control and prevention measures will be undertaken on waste dumps
and exposed slopes. Water quality will be regularly monitored. Dust, the
only air pollutant, and the air quality will be monitored weekly. CIL and
CCL would design, construct and operate the project with due regard to
satisfactory environmental and safety standards (Section 2.09, Project
Agreement).
Project Execution and Implementation
66.       The project will be implemented by CCL, under the direction of a
Project General Manager, reporting to the General Manager for Singrauli
Coalfield. The Project General Manager will be supported by managers
responsible for (i) mining and general engineering; (ii) cost and schedul-
ing control; (iii) administration; and (iv) a Deputy Project Manager,
directly responsible for project implementation. The Project General
Manager has been appointed, and is adequately qualified and experienced.
CCL would ensure that the organizational, structure, functions, staffing,
funds, powers and responsibilities of the Project Management Unit will be
such as shall be necessary for timely and efficient implementation of the
project (Section 2.12, Project Agreement).
67.       The Project Management Unit will be directly responsible for all
activities related to detailed engineering, procurement of local goods and
services, equipment erection and commissioning, construction and mine
development. Procurement of imported items will be carried out by the CIL
central procurement orgarization, in direct collaboration with the Project
General Manager. CCL has a good record of project implementation, and is
experienced with the mining methods and equipment to be used for the
project. However, slippage in timetables for other projects has occurred
in the past due to delays zegarding import approvals and foreign exchange
allocations, and other external factors beyond CCL's control. In order to
minimize the impact of such external factors, GOI would issue blanket
waivers for import licenses and ensure all foreign exchange requirements
for all project items to be financed by the Bank loan (Section 3.05(a),
Loan Agreement). Although the CIL group has experience in implementing



-21-
large open-pit mines, some strengthening of project monitoring and control
procedures is required. Accordingly, CIL would prepare a project
implementation manual for discussion with the Bank, and adopt it prior to
September 30, 1984 (Section 2.15, Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
68.       The total financing required for Stage I (5 million tpy) of the
Dudhichua project, including physical contingencies, price escalation,
working capital and interest during construction is estimated at US$373
million, of which about US$128.4 million is in foreign exchange and
US$46.1 million represents taxes and duties.
69.       The capital cost estimates were prepared by CMPDI, based on cost
information from recent orders for similar equipment and actual cost data
for on-going projects. A provision for physical contingencies of 5% over
base cost is provided for mining equipment, and 10% for all other items.
Local costs have been estimated to increase at 7% annually through
1985/86, and 6% thereafter.  Foreign costs are estimated to increase 8%
for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% thereafter.
70.       In line with current Government policy, the overall financing of
project costs will be provided in the ratio of 50% debt and 50% equity.
The proposed Bank loan of US$151.0 million will provide about 40% of
project financing requirements, with an additional US$35.6 million equiv-
alent provided by GOI in the form of long-term debt. With respect to
equity contributions, CIL will provide US$45 million equivalent from
internal cash generation, and the balance of US$142 million will be
provided by the Government. GOI would provide the debt and equity
requirements as indicated, and whatever additional debt and equity funcls
(both local and foreign currency) which might be needed to complete the
Dudhichua project promptly (Section 3.01(a)(ii), Loan Agreement).
71.       The proposed Bank loan will be made to the Government of India
at the standard variable Bank interest rate for a period of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. GOI would on-lend project funds to CIL for a
period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace. The on-lending rate will
effectively be 12.75% per annum, the standard Government rate for lending
to industrial enterprises in the public sector. CIL will, in turn, make
the funds available to CCL on the the same terms and conditions as those
of GOI to CIL. Domestic inflation in India is not expected to exceed 8%
over the project period, so that the on-lending rate will be positive in
real terms during this time. GOI would bear the foreign exchange and
interest risk for the on-lent funds. The conclusion of a satisfactory
Subsidiary Loan Arrangement between GOI and CIL and a satisfactory
Financial Arrangement between CIL and CCL will be conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
72.       Equipment and erection services financed by the Bank will be
procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. These goods and services consist mainly of a dragline,
shovels, trucks, dozers, rotary drill rigs and a coal handling plant, and
are grouped in 27 separate bidding packages, averaging US$5.2 million



-22-
each. For bid evaluation under ICB, qualified local
suppliers/manufacturers will receive a margin of preference of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less. It is expected that for those
items to be financed under the Bank loan, about US$59 million will be for
contracts awarded to local suppliers following ICB.
73.       The Bank loan of US$151.0 million will be used to finance a coal
handling plant (US$29.0), mining and communication equipment (US$112.4
million), and technical assistance (US$0.9 million). In addition, US$8.3
million will be unallocated, and US$0.4 million will be for the capital-
ized front-end fee. Loan proceeds will be disbursed against 100% of
foreign and 100% of (ex-factory) local expenditures for all project
components, except for the coal handling plant against which disbursements
will be at 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
Although Stage I of the Dudhichua project is scheduled to be completed in
1993/94, disbursements are expected to be completed by March 1989, when
all Bank financed items would have been physically delivered or completed.
Financial Evaluation
74.       The Dudhichua project represents only about 2% of CIL's total
investment program for the period 1981/82-1991/92. By 1992, when Stage I
of the Dudhichua project reaches production of 5 million tpy, this will
represent about 7% of CCL's total coal production for that year.
75.       It is expected that GOI will continue to provide 50% of CIL's
investment needs through long-term debt, and the remaining investment
requirements will be met from CIL internally generated resources
(approximately 12%) and GOI equity contributions. The average coal price
for CIL has been projected on the assumption that it will gradually
increase in real terms, and that in any year the full cost of production
would be covered, and by 1989/90, CIL would earn a 10% return on net
worth 1/ providing certain production, labor productivity and unit operat-
ing cost standards are achieved. The projected average coal price for
1989/90 (Rs.261.4fton, in current terms) based on these criteria is higher
than prevailing prices and is in line with the estimated long-run marginal
cost of production.
76.       To ensure that the consolidated financial position of the CIL
group of companies remains sound, CIL would maintain at all times a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.3, a long-term debt-to-equity ratio
not greater than 60:40, and a current ratio of at least 1.2 (Section 4.03,
Project Agreement).
77.       The base case financial rate of return (FRR) for the Dudhichua
Project is estimated at 10% for its final capacity of 10 million tpy, and
at 7% for Stage I capacity of 5 million tpy. The lower rate for Stage I
is due to the relatively long period (11 years) required to reach its
1/ Defined as average net fixed assets (excluding work-in-progress)
plus working capital less long-term liabilities, (excluding those
allocated to work-in-progress).



-23-
rated production capacity because of the geological configuration of the
deposit.
Economic Analysis and Risks
78.       The Dudhichua project represents the least-cost alternative for
meeting the increased coal demand from the Singrauli Coalfield. The base
case economic rate of return (ERR) is over 16% for the final capacity of
10 million tpy, and 13.6% for the Stage I production of 5 million tpy.
Even over a range of adverse assumptions, 1/ the ERR remains acceptable at
nearly 12% and over 14%, respectively, for the Stage I and Stage II
production levels. The difference between the FRR and the ERR results
primarily from the exclusion of taxes and duties from the calculation of
the latter. The economic rent accrues to the Central and State
Governments.
79.       Power shortages are acute throughout India and, in particular,
are a constraint on economic growth in western India. By supplying coal
to three large and important power stations, the proposed project would
help alleviate such shortages and associated losses in industrial and
agricultural output. The project will provide additional benefits through
institutional development of CIL in open-pit mining procedures, project
management, budgeting and cost control. Finally, several important
issues, particularly coal transportation and distribution, will be
addressed in studies to be conducted under the project,and as such, sec-
toral planning and execution capabilities would be considerably
strengthened.
80.       The project faces minimal technical risks since coal reserves
are well-established and mining plans and equipment selection are based on
proven technologies now being used in other open-pit mines in the
Singrauli coalfield. There is minimal marketing risk to CIL, since
project output has been fully allocated to three specific power plants,
and therefore only minor fluctuations would be expected in sales volume.
If some reallocation is required, it could easily be accomplished, since
production from Dudhichua could be redirected and absorbed by other power
plants in the power expansion program. With regard to coal pricing, there
is some risk that GOI's commitment to an appropriate pricing policy may
not be implemented in a timely manner, which could adversely affect the
financial position of both the project and CIL. However, the financial
risk is considered acceptable in view of the Government's policy to ensure
the continued financial viability of entities in the energy sector and the
mobilization of an adequate level of resources for coal investments from
within the sector.
1/ Including any one of the following: 10% increase in capital or
operating costs, 10% decrease in revenues or a one-year delay in
project implementation.



-24-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank, CIL and CCL, and the draft Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and CIL
and Financial Arrangement between CIL and CCL would be additional condi-
tions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 27, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb         lb IRECENT b             LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970.- ESTnIATE/          ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ARILA (THOWSAN SQ. EK)
TOTAL                              3287.6      3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                       1760.7      1780.5       1811.3
GNP PEF CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       100.0       260.0               276.7                    1028.6
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      114.0       165.0       210.0               398.4                     792.8
POPULATION AN VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0   690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)        18.0        19.8        23.7                21.5                      32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                           1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                             2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3       166.6       205.3               161.7                     260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            247.0       307.5       372.7              363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7)
0-14 YRS                          40.9        42.7        39.7                36.6                      39.4
15-64 YKS                          54.5        54.2        57.2                59.2                      57.2
65 AND ABOVE                        4.6         3.1         3.0                4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTRH RATE (%)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.3         2.1                 1.9                       2.3
URBAN                               2.5         3.3         3.7                 4.0                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         43.7        40.0        35.4                29.3                      31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         21.8        16.7        13.3                10.9                       9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.7         2.4                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)          64.0      3782.0      6826.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..        12.0        23.0               48.1                       46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        98.0       102.0       107.0              111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQUIREMENTS)       96.0        90.0        87.0                98.1                     114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0        50.0        47.0               56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0        13.0/c              13.9                      14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          26.2        20.7        17.0               12.2                        7.6
EEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        43.2        48.1        52.2                59.6                      60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       165.0       139.0       121.2               96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..        17.0        33.0/d              32.9                      37.1
URBAN                                          60.0        83.072              70.8                      54.8
RURAL                                ..         6.0        20.07o              22.2                      26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(7 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        18.0        20.0/e              18.1                      41.4
URBAN                                ..        85.0        87.0/e              72.7                      47.5
RURAL                                ..         1.0         2.077               4.7                      33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.0      4890.0      3640.0/f           3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           10980.0/g    8300.0      5380.07?           4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2180.0      1650.0      1310.0/d            1100.6                    1047.2
URBAN                                ..          ..       370.072            298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                ..          ..     10410.072            5941.6                    2591.9
AOMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                     ..                ..                       27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2         5.6         5.2/e                .
URBAN                               5.2         5.6         4.87..
RURAL                               5.2         5.6         5.T37                .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8          .
URBAN                               2.6         2.8
RURAL                               2.6         2.8           ..                 .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          lb  RECENT                LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
1960-       1970-_  ESTIMAIT/b          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     61.0         73.0         76.0/f              96.1                       101.2
MALE                     80.0         90.0         90.07              107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   40.0         56.0         61.07d              82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0         26.0         28.0/f              30.2                        44.9
MALE                     30.0         36.0         37.07T              37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                   10.0         15.0         18.07?              22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)             2.8          1.0          O.7/e               2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              46.0         41.0         43.0/f              34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0            ,                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                27.8         33.4         36.0                53.5                        72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            4.9         21.5         44.4                96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.0          0.0          1.7                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7         32.5        31.8                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0         69.3                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0        13.2                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0         39.3                42.5                        18.6
MALE                                 57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9         25.9                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.1          1.1                 1.0                         1.1
INClME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e              16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7         48.97W       49.47e              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1          6.77W        7.07e               6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13.6         17.27h       16.27e              17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        132.0               133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                       178.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         40.3                43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ,                      50.7                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
- |a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFsiITtoOI OP SOCIAL OOOItdIOt_
Notes:  Although the dora Are  "Iall tro    nac         I  -enrlly judge  the Iost Iuthlri..iae and re1losO,  I   bodas   be  otd that they may ntb    nentoo
coprhl eaus   fte  aka   -tandar -ed denitons on  conept  used bydItrrtc.                            nris   ncad     ctnI    telao.Tedt   e,nstees    mtt:
The    f_ rerrnc    grops ar  (1) the tam    --y gruv        ttesbes.aer"n   2   core    ru    obunehthge   aeg Intac  thn  th.bontr g-ny                                              t  th
schi- -ctc -rt y  eo,y  toe  1High 1oose" 001 Enypr-ero   grou.p eher  "h..o taetrt    dla  a    lol   oE'htcor  becaueyt.e..g....O-ctrura
at  strie I   hohe   elarece  rop doa  he  oeage  ar  ppultio   eighte   arlhmnl  rar   orI eacMindac  o                         In ho   apoe   aIodyattecIIreui 
d1-t " (Tho_d qIs                                                            APo_atmart aolla  -ypaatI   doalded                                                b  noh ra  pae   o
Too     I"Ttlsutc  ores    atprsh.glad   ares ord aIhclecaoer                    .I,                hohnu    Ad-1 inhdia -aa aimdical. naa  lie oniaerIhy   --nIl    d
tool and 1980 dsta..                                                                                    P  oo  o    eOriePro  "Iapolor hoci divdedbyy.                    tb  ralpreniin
tar cops,  astor , arh-pend  itche   gardens ard toaI hOeCol; 1961,                              nueho  ac        7 tches.i-I                               _. 
0071 and 1980 data.                                                                     Pocciotion  pee Oaopbtsl aed   -A toat,uba,I                I ua  -tylaln  (oal,
INP PER CAPITA (US$)                                                              I'll~~~~~~~~~~~urat,  ad rural: divIded by the1 Ir reseain   tobea  hsia   ede
ClOyPit  aPiO 10)1  -IGNPeecyt     instsatcuret sekr   ries V-a_la;blei   ul:adposegteI  aod specialieed hospital  and
096   190, end 0900 data,                                                                                  ya   es   r   tmca.ttbihenspun  o    enia  yccs  a
ENERGY CONSr   IO\ gK C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Icreaeoatincloded.   uR-al h..mpitao  bIed r,Itoude  health ted
INOt t     _OOIO    Pt  CAPIad Jg nuleaee  coanplc  tcoorla                                        ee1colcensroto  pe -ally scatted by a physlciar  btb      eo
yeoeeeey(ol.-srdy lnslte   ieelu,sttlgosdhdo-   ula                                                tlta         ot,mdalte, etc.) shlcn otte  in-p-ai-t ac-uoe  a   and
1960, 1970, and 00980 data.                                                                                u.h....    inuo   _ncud   AlfI  priti  pal general   hsptas  end,rorb _
-b-ospat its,lacaInrtcttIIopHtAlitalsondmd-cla              mst delt ..eteea
POPULATdION All VITAL hTTaISItCt                                                                             hpcilir  IasItals  are ~    inloded, onl  ondeetoal .d           -
Total Paolatlae.bad-Yea    ..toosoIV) -A Osf July 01  1960, 1970, std 19005u1ic    eeHoia    r    Tot~al ea:Ie  If _dmomoAtsra    cc:
data,'2-  '-'                                                                                             te-asbol-ahls IvIdea, dyb   h    ubta  beds.
hba`;PIacouiat(crcntoltoa I R atla  at urban  totoal popolas- 0001I  a.ia-a1-b  d h-d
dittren   deloinoasat  tba.arendny   itecdcombreiliyntIefalbtlth
Papulantti ye :rcebcnsi  .,:                                                                           -TI- Ah.obo    ausoa  agapa   a  adaooh hc                                 lgqabe
PaaaitIt pa   2000 - Cor-a  lpoylati_t  frjcin    r   ae    t00                                    n   hi   atmao     I hoacdro  lde  rap11i   orlay sach.he linclde
'tota   populaion  by age sod        sd _tei tnraltIb  aod ter  11Iyth  hueodtancitielpros
cates   PeaIjIotnprrrr    ouraISyrts-aepioeaIftttro                                                 Aerageuueetgrsn   peeaootl.can    leua   aeadam
leash   aotanbo   Ilte  opec tncy dthOrn bito--iug   ithcanr'ope                           tpro         e  roan btSall uranaad  url  ccpid c-aoanl aa
camitaloo   atearolty  nd  ertlis   teod   to  pr(aoha   popasu.at,t5al  uban                                                     ...rualIwelins rtpeol-ly
cons-tant.Thi --is, cIea        vonyote  teet  ity  rates                                                          Ifjonedtatier   Raio
eachge-iatln  of -00cm   repdlacriItuelt et. dy.  Thf            oaliaarferaleonoal                                       ll-b ageo atth d- elsar . ae. aty.cntgp-tiotpot
pa- ulatloy ohoeaose-    b Imotd in te   asi  o  thea".     ra         Ictdcrrce-ycoroha-geppltos;tra-yar  ue   hhde   gdb
itlc -tahlplb at-n a-  The yara 000,-d  therat Iat detilty at                                 pdj aro  rE-ladjse  tar   otrc   lrtsa  piayeucsIn.o
pd-lists  shoe sIlpl--he         - reached.-- he                                                            -aa2schoo    - tta,  male atd  te-al -  Co... o-ed as sbaned fe:-sa
Per u. hm.Ood-pat pauletor pe  squae kolset-   lootII'.    h    -ecer-o   at                     p Ioolde    geerl 2      acal   rtahrtrligiercbn    a
tonal.Iarea:i961  1971,                 II  ,i,a end 1980 dna.                                           ..... usuall  ot..   ... no  7yatsata gu   are poodence  ourse  seed
iPtecuq     I.lc puricputl.lard-Catph ccY.aoabanetoIIIage           fulcrllsoygneally IAcdI-d.F                                        f-;"IIaIfpi yd t.;F
toulro      Iae IrIcu        I.prcn T II-1 C   Tidce   (I-I  yh-o) o-iakugaa-                            ccoe  ehncl  Odaute-al, oroterpr gII susf ohlctb ap c -odpe-
hO yearsl,a~tdltot(kysraoooea    prensgaati-ya-etlaaseacto--erto                                                                             f ascdayor-  ituI                             idns
pouain 96, 1970,  and 0901   data,                                                           Pui-ote    al-rmao    n   eadr      atlouer    roldl
yr-1aplala  lo6        906,16-h   o   097-8.ias andn   l-1a1neto.a                                                                                 f.,;-I pd-                  -
Crod  toro late  (ar i-    osnd-                                           lactal  onelIleh-1peytb-sad  ataid
yer 6oultut 19701ad  1970,sd10 d        ata.CO9I9PTI2I"11   -
Cruely;s  Oas(eI         hoad       ut,   otocrtosn    rndya                                           aone    al(e  ohaunsd coruaauac   -  osagccr   coeprte-aar d
populel-    ; 162  19h0,and ld0-daa.                       yoso.setIng   estktan schg  yasoa    encludosamblnesb t.  sad
Ptacollaty   easer;usuall   tIc-ys  soeagee   prd-n  t19t1g          172 -Y..                           -ilyd  a     dst  gnrlpulcye -aan    tpoua  a    o-u                         t
19P.                                                                                                    llceasod9  racatnadrs91 d.    in coloe  atd  un ,years ehenIa reisraIon  at  e~d ia
ratilplati og-cccn             Id_cua  Ittl aoInt-dalnoa-ouahotat-stceya..   a.roo     -ctfc Id-FT-atoreeo    pearo                                                  sacreamparableslc   os-
ot Iet-ota    eiosudeasie  a   altlts                               ylaraitg-oauoirpedagoli-eylceOg
pragra.1ibC.,          t      _         ,,                 .,     -       f-a                           Ac Iteceoto-       I )prn poad-papalasoo-rOrcrcsr   t                dchradc -st    a.
daiytariahse   lecsntcrotseel   Prenae   tarcd                                                       serlcrl   pehasnP_alsonet_dsclcetdIr:aar
naeaclldhf     t,a   go 19IS-7cacoaen)u7no81        -:nrnotaleoza                                                 If,'taoeu -cae adoaorti  nstosa   otlosArsa    ote
anulyantOna            lol-otto      1dch-om-aIdocyOeo-,IC.. Pautunalde                                                   p-cdtltaoyio  hanpdacoptlsas-st -oPtlms-saoe(Iot
pparduadi            197a0eo addy 19rbasdt.. -asdtisas   playoose                                      -aiuea           II--l on hnaocsp-Chpotp--, la-Oen-edab tb-ne-e-add
h.,e   ad  e  are suclu         -d)  aggregate. pradotha  aI.t each cIontey  Isdi.olec-i-. (                                     h,,dp,Ii,                 I    y- Ir..I ,1                
beodllor   --caral.. aclyg  produce  p-rIce a   -ghi;  iIh1-b0, 1970, otd 1981-t                                          g -    .l~g               l.I      Pplti.     -.V  
Ists,                                                                                               LloPitCh I-y,:h,:ilIl-I    .i
FquilyiPlasused  it-     odU.-   soia,(adbnne-i  dnttht on                                               Pnae  pecet)-  enl.laor..csaspecicee  t  otl  shr-ore
actiste   b  th  usd   t  hyooagOalredota  crol                            ta Ioiur I    pecent  -        hao,,fei  ttst,  oenoy   ot r 
ag   n    e   lorhtinaOopibo,sdaioig1    rrn   a    at .Oudos-try -                                                Iperfo   -  lbr  aosi  clung   costdt l-d- sanot -c d-
ransop1 bad     t1ad,,per  de . Net sop.   ad. loditis    i         as e...s                          Pidarocp   lngt       o -           toal,tsid,aod 3mad    II Patbicpais f
tequ are fr_t_ tar al   c_c r srbihdd  byI SIA pr             __sto._i bout                       attklolty. r d-eo  are  cptd as,     os,   ae  ltdd gdi.i.ateml  labor. ~io-aas
altoscd  ..   . I:oaltotl   roeI   pscdayti-ifg-ho-alacisuar                                        prcenage - at  oa,elsdtmoppltcoalgtsptial
yus    rti,a   hc    2gotutadh   nnlpasa                              hs 9f,07,ad00    os                                                 hs   r  hoda   t'   atcete    ae
noedars ae lueetha   tOst  t 7  gcms  t ntalprarinand23  roa                 re ito 1g ae-st orucorot te ypc,etho,  nd  ongris  tred
ChP-Idhoe a-k) Ihneut  Oat  (per.  N.,ouse pld     - atuldeaths a per  drua-d. or_Prcetag  at. Pinat  lnc9 ee (bar  inF cathsdbnd       eele    ysibu
ag arup12yer,t  chilren.   Or this lugr grup daibr  ast enlpl                                       ecet  rIchest 211 percent  poores  20d.a  p-ecet, adI  paare1 00 perrfnto
cauceb-   data dete 'tram  tot  nobls;  OhO.191-ad,18h.eta                                              iosehidd
ta;,itT V.d   Paohi igaf-l-yr-_factrt'iib  aaO-"totyt                                                                                      .  1l.,l             11
at birth; 1960,   1970 a      5d 1981 dana.    O     a                                                   badd  he Iicirey,e           -d slo .c.uod.a  Or.. cagr oar.       b,fa         190
Sntet-pialtrpy eafelprtbaoosg dl-arouay)deartholonnI__oIfdo_aoe                                        tsdoeai       IduhaoeatasryicmtnlO trccpr(uhaoe
peso YgAl nann    o            beh;ld,17   ad,18  danab,,acalP                                              epar- Rrn.  oIeiA     e.s hnOnor  re  halos ohichani.
Factesattstewasrlpercntra-paulaflan-_aral-rio.ly crlttrotaya-e                                                                   -patedieps tsontaltotod    ceqo resens.....
ruhro  pol   ttl   tbc   n  curIO sIfreaons i' sIcest   at                                               tadte
saters.app fyt60ud     frreoedartp-c-acpdrec             arddr2asbgdha                                bsteotdaltisyncstloadd f                   ilSOpscai.)o.annd1rl
sashnoe  sels   asheceta            at F   th I      ceo -cn    pauaian..I  a                           pecora .1Onad ot8 the.   Th-ney    O ba - e  in deiLnd  tea e thei. euro
orboartapuhd ctaanaO    aernpslctdomrT's  210etrlolobdocmttahgsas ott.'I                                                                            .lbcidoglnoohaose            r-ds
rural f, ..l . .- iarobeol ttl urbon, pandesay) s96e6ec97e.d 1y97r7O
pr Ilts  so t.d nim ia onrolfIorl             196oos70   d19apd-                                                                                                  198h1da



AXNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNIP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUC'r IN 1981/82 bt                                                      ANNUAL RATE CO  GROWTH (X, constant prices) -
US$ Bin .     %                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP att Market Prices          165.38    100.0                         3.7               3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08     -2.4
OUTP1JT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ BIn..           %             Mil.        %                          %S   of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8               39.6           180.6      70.7               220            56
Industry                        25.2              25.1             32.2      12.6               783           199
Services                        35.5               35.3            42.6      16.7               833           211
Total/Average                  100.5              100.0           255.4    100.0                394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                          Central Governrment
Rs. Bln.        %  of  GDP                                    Rs. Bli%.       X  of  GDP
1981/82     1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                   285.77         19.4         19.1                               149.2     10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures               280.34        19.0          18.2                              155.03      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43        0.4           0.9                               -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/            116.91          7.9          7.8                               83.66       5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/        16.45          1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982               February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5    615.5                            711.7
Bank Credit to Government(net)    54.6         69.2      77.6      76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                         353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2        156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                            487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                             April-Feb 1981/82.   April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                      27.4       30.3      34.6      36.5     41.2      44.1      43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                281.7                 287.3
knn-iai percentage changes in:
4hclesale Price Index                 7.7      -1.1       2.1       5.2       -       17.1      18.2       9.3            10.0                :  2.0
Bank Credit to Goverioment (niet)   15.0        6.3      11.1      16.3      16.0     25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 S/          1   21.0
Bark Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5         22.7      20.7      12.6      20.3     21.5      17.0      18.7            20.9 I/               15.5 h/
a!  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981,
All other coniversicns to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estija3tes, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
_/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
_/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
a/  Percentage change from  end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from  end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annextre Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                           us$ Mln.    %
Exports of Goods q/                7,948    8,504    8,511    8,800                   Engineering Goods                901       11
Imports of Goods S/              -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                   Tea                              457        6
Trade Balance                     -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                   Gems                             759       10
NFS (net)                          1,042    1,365    1,120    1,088                   Clothing                         556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470           i
Resource Balance                  -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                   Jute Manufactures                279        4
Iron Ore                         352        4
Interest Income (net) k/             287       600       212      -128                Cotton Textiles                  319        6
Net Transfers  1/                  1,852    2,771      1,577     1,668                Sugar                            104         1
Others                         3,789       47
Balance on Current Account          -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                          Total                          7,986      lot)
Gross Disbursements                1,218     1,629     1,821     1,933                EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                       1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                -       1,035       690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                  18.3
All Other Items  o/                 -740      -130   -1,075       -358                Undisbursed                                 8.5
Outstanding, including                     26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)            -224       345    2,397       -182                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4 462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/         7,204    6,532    3,498    1,703                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 j/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) j/             4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                            US$ million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed            1,357         6,688
Undisbursed                          1,896         4>270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                       3,253         10,958
RATE OF EXChANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971        :      US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                        Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1,00 - us$0.13333                                                  Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:          US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = us$0.137376
After end-June 1972                   :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981          :       US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = US$0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982          :       US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = US$0.104
j/ Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
I/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and currenc tra"s.er,
o/  Includes commercial borrowing.
pl  Excluding gold.
_/  Net of crude petroleum  exports.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2!
48 Loans/                                               1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,759.0             -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -          83.0            6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -          27.7            6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0            3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0          -           44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0         13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -          20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -         150.0            7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -          23.0            6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0          3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -         107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -          87.0            6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0         -              2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -         117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -          17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -         150.0           76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -         196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -          38.0            8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
(Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0           5.51
1.648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -         129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -          48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -          23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -          37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -          20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -          32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -         175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -         300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -              7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -          42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -          54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0           -           61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -          29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0           -          300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0         -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -               6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0         -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3         -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -          33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                       -          31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0         -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -         200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -          219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0        143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0        101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0        170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*       -          147.0        147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0         32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -          250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                24.1          -           24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0        105.00
Total                                    5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established--at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983j
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuria Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -       2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -       8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0       3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -      82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
DUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year
(b) The agency which has prepared the proiect
Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
July 1982; September/October 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 21, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1984
Section II:      Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special conditions:
(a) GOI to initiate prior to April 30, 1984 a coal
transportation and distribution study (para 36);
(b) GOI to complete prior to December 31, 1984, a study
on coal producer-consumer linkages (para 41);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) GOI to maintain prices at levels which will ensure
the financial viability of CIL, as well as an adequate
level of resource generation for the coal sector
(para 50);
(d) CIL to complete prior to June 30, 1985, a study
reviewing procedures for formulating and controlling
its operational budget (para 53);
(e) CIL to complete, prior to June 30,
1984, a study to recommend operational improvements
in open-pit mining procedures (para 54); and
(f) CCL to ensure that the organizational, structure,
functions, staffing, funds, powers and responsibilities
of its Project Management Unit are such as shall be
necessary to ensure timely and efficient operation of
the project (para 66).



' USSR  0R
-J3 ,                                                                                          IND IA
r,<z- /            >\m8  D""0' AppxyawsDUDHICHUA COAL PROJECT
(\      <,                                       O  /  bdgbrbyibbndl
a        Power stations Icoa fron Dudh,chru Coal Pro1ncrj
AFGHANISTAN              2                    IA ML                         4T'TO  naw                      Calfed
AFGH A                                                      MNIS,ndor cool field oreas operated by various mining compa-es
9   9  . A\ gASHMIwd/R  }A    Cool India Ltd headquarters
Sielected Rail-ay_s,
-      ~      <      <    %                                                                    Central Railway
/                                                              ---w   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Western Railway
I    Notional capitol
'VIMA Ch~~~~~~A I                       0~~  Selected cities or towns
P>RADESH9                                          -  ---State boundaries
v t>           gX                                  _._  Internotional boundaries
-30.      PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                    OOysn/Jy0ii s
HA 2XRY4 IVAII              /              >C   H   I  N   A   Onyyy0an5
g         .    -~~~^New DeDlhi     .                                                                         <
N E PAL <-  +03<    >
(  Mnih...                                                 IJBHUTAN7                      v  /          NC
P.,ITTAR PRADESI! 
PRA, 4j   5 T//A /V   o        /   O n            0A  5 FA S Mv                                                                       PRADESH
K>A  F!R,                                                                                    HA /  -~   e~ (-4' A GA I A ND
tAb  irwin                                        j~~~~~~~N~~    (MgC;HAIAY       MN/A/
KOIAA,-~  .         t                _                B/1AP    Ij\JBANGLADESH/A 
U-) A      -\' T;bi R_                                                aoiIo*,oino        1        I
K  G~nad0 U   J~i AN ~   4HYA 4p                                             r                      z              %E J   .) T .; nRI_       J R/IRA   M /IZORA M
i     Ah-ed.b.d,                                                                                            \Lo2(NAlAA/Y   P A D S f>:     E/A   t    ,r rq2--Fea
G.dhr.         7Qy          Brn.                                                 9FA\ A                                  -
W.-k ~~~~~~~~~~~G         ~                                                                                4RMA
f vo<l tU  t ;ProF<?k   uRMA9B
t  0  : : ivRobBAY \ \~~~~~~~~nan,i                                                                        r  <',I7,Z: ''.aifiu-
it~~~~     ~~~                                                                                                       1 0     ,-5 \ - ' / it.i:z i:  ; :
ii                              o''; iVe .-                                          - ANi/%RA  noRAD .  :Ll :  .  1 A2
.        Y1KARIVAT4KAT          ~     ~     Bihas -                             -            0          3
_,r.y                                                                A A  .  %
GOA
4KARNA [A KA
C(<F   5-0~&i< 
\E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.N O. . HOU                                                     A/
/                                          - ~~~~~~ANL)AMAN
EJ/' t                                                            N/DORA N
\TA MISZ NA DI                                                                     ISLANDS
-In  oN.*  nnorAS                       KERALA?                                I.o7vCl I gn +6 z'n Zyr, r Ltd. (NLC)
.inin  inD Ilf  ooBuiew, F_                   
ynnmin,nIAn.ynrI11be                           ,            '0 i- ~    I <KIMMETERtS 0                           200        400        6000       8L0 
eonAnnar,wovAoonoin.                         .                            N                                                
byawiN,AbnR_A,iy                             5\<S                                                  5 1 SRIAILES 0  i00    203      300      400      500>
6 sIcrsement ol aCceplav o/ 9 t L A N K A ' m 
'\I ANKVA A.'



