L   OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2393 IN
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Dudhichua Coal Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COAL INDIA LIMITED
and
CENTRAL COALFIELDS LIMITED
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2393 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS           AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and COAL INDIA LIMITED (hereinirter called
Coal India) and CENTRAL COALFIELDS LIMITED (hereinafter called
Central Coalfields).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty-one million dollars ($151,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Coal India and Central Coalfields agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Coal India, the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Coal India on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C) by a financial arrangement to be made between Coal
India and Central Coalfields, the proceeds of the Loan relent by
the Borrower to Coal India will be made available by Coal India
to Central Coalfields on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS Coal India and Central Coalfields, in consideration
of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Coal India and Central Coalfields declare
their commitment to the objective of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, Central
Coalfields shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project and Coal
India shall carry out Part C of the Project, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices.
(b) Without any lititation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, Coal India shall cause
Central Coalfields to perform in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement all its obligations herein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Central Coalfields to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance by Central
Coalfields.
Section 2.02. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, Coal India shall make available the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to Central Coalfields under a
financial arrangement to be made between Coal India and Central
Coalfields under terms and conditions which shall be identical to
those on which the Borrower shall have relent the proceeds of the
Loan to Coal India.
Section 2.03. In order to assist Central Coalfields in
carrying out Parts A (iii) and (iv) of the Project, Central
Coalfields   shall  employ   consultants   whose   qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) Central Coalfields undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it
by Coal India against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Central Coalfields to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Central Coalfields shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by Coal
India to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) Central Coalfields shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Central Coalfields shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by Coal India and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, without
limitation to the foregoing periodic progress reports on the
execution of the Project.
(c) Upon the award by Central Coalfields of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-4-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Central
Coalfields and the Bank, Central Coalfields shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by Central Coalfields and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) Central Coalfields shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment and any records and documents of
Central Coalfields related to the performance of Central Coal-
field's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Coal India shall duly perform its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Coal India shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) Coal India and Central Coalfields shall,
at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) Coal India and Central Coalfields shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Coal India and
Central Coalfields of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall take
all measures necessary to ensure that the design, construction
and operation of the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological, environmental and safety standards satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.10. Central Coalfields shall, not later than
September 30, 1984, formulate and furnish to the Bank, a schedule
to meet the needs of the Project for the provision of housing and


﻿service facilities under Part B (i) of the Project, and, there-
after, carry out said Part of the Project in accordance with such
schedule.
Section 2.11. Central Coalfields shall on January 1 of each
year, commencing January 1, 1985, furnish to the Bank a report
regarding the training activities undertaken under Part B (ii) of
the Proj ct during the prior calendar year.
Section 2.12. Central Coalfields shall ensure that the
organizational structure, functions, staffing, funds, powers and
responsibilities of its Dudhichua Project Management Unit shall
be such as shall be necessary for timely and efficient implemen-
tation of the Project.
Section 2.13. Central Coalfields shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities under Part A of the
Project, and shall, upon request, furnish to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for such purposes.
Section 2.14. (a) Central Coalfields shall, by June 30,
1985, complete the study referred to in Part A (iii) (a) of the
Project, and shall exchange views with the Bank on the findings
of said study; and
(b)   Central Coalfields shall: (i) complete, by June 30,
1985, the study referred to in Part A (iii) (b) of the Project,
(ii) after processing the report and reviewing the recommenda-
tions of the study, exchange views with the Bank on the findings
of the study, and (iii) take appropriate actions to implement the
recommendations arising from said study.
Section 2.15. Central Coalfields shall, (i) by June 30,
1984, complete the preparation of an implementation manual for
the Project, (ii) exchange views with the Bank on the draft
manual as prepared, and (iii) by September 30, 1984 adopt said
manual for the purposes of implementation of the Project.
Section 2.16. Coal India undertakes to, (i) complete, by
June 30, 1985, the study referred to in Part C of the Project,
(ii) after processing the report and reviewing the recommenda-
tions of the study, exchange views with the Bank on the findings


﻿-6-
of the study, and (iii) take appropriate actions to implement the
recommendations arising from said study.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
Coal India and Central Coalfields
Section 3.01. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall carry
on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall at all
times operate and maintain their plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all ii accordance with sound
engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. (a) Coal India and Central Coalfields shall at
all times take all steps necessary to maintain its corporate
existence and the right to carry on its operations, and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire and to retain such land,
interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such powers, privileges, licenses, franchises or other
rights as may be necessary, or useful for the conduct of its
business and the execution and operation of such Part(s) of the
Project whose execution, is their responsibility.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Central
Coalfields shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of their property or assets required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of efficient and reliable
operation of the Dudhichua Mine, Central Coalfields shall enter
into arrangements with appropriate agencies and authorities for
the provision of adequate supplies of electrical power and


﻿- 7 -
potable water to ensure the timely availability in sufficient
quantity for full utilization of the facilities to be constructed
under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices their operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. Coal India and Central Coalfields shall:
(a) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Coal India shall take all steps necessary,
within its powers, to ensure that at all times its consolidated
internal cash generation for each year shall be at least 1.3
times the consolidated debt service requirements of its con-
solidated debt for that year.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Coal India
shall, and shall cause the Subsidiaries to:
(i) not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt, the aggregate principal amount of the


﻿- 8 -
consolidated debt then incurred and outstanding
would be greater than 1.5 times the consolidated
equity; and
(ii) maintain, at all times, a ratio of consolidated
current assets to consolidated current liabilities
of not less than 1.2 times;
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Coal
India and the Subsidiaries (excluding indebtedness
between Coal India and the Subsidiaries and
between each of the Subsidiaries) maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, and the term "consoli-
dated debt" means the aggregate of the total debt,
as defined herein, of Coal India and the Subsidia-
ries;
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred under: (A) a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
(iii) The term "consolidated equity" means the aggregate
amount of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earnings and reserves not allocated to
cover specific liabilities of Coal India and the
Subsidiaries.
(iv) The term "current assets" means cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, marketable
securities, pre-paid expenses properly chargeable
to operating expenses within the next twelve
months following the date in which such pre-paid
expenses were made, and all other assets which
could, in the ordinary course of business, be con-
verted into cash within twelve months, and the


﻿- 9 -
term  "consolidated   current  assets"  means   the
aggregate of the total current assets, as defined
herein, of Coal India and the Subsidiaries.
(v)   The term "current liabilities" means accounts pay-
able   within   twelve   months,   income    taxes,
dividends, bonuses and all other liabilities (in-
cluding debt) which, pursuant to their terms, will
become due and payable or could under circum-
stances then existing be called for payment within
twelve months, and the term "consolidated current
liabilities" means the aggregate of the total
current liabilities, as defined herein, of Coal
India and the Subsidiaries.
(vi) The term "Consolidated internal cash generation"
means the aggregate amount of the gross revenues
of Coal India and the Subsidiaries from all
sources, less the aggregate amount of the operat-
ing expenses of Coal India and the Subsidiaries,
including expenses accountable to administration,
maintenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of
taxes), but before provision for depreciation of
assets and interest and other charges on debt.
? >  The term  "debt service requirement" means     the
-tcegaLe amount of amortization (11aluding sink-
ILig fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt, and the term "consolidated
debt service requirement" means the aggregate of
the total debt service requirement, as defined
herein, of Coal India and the Subsidiaries.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, with absence of such rpte, on the basis
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Coal India and Central Coalfields thereunder shall
terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify
Coal India and Central Coalfields thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 11 -
For Coal India:
Coal India Limited
10 Netaji Subhas Road
Calcutta - 700001
India
Cable Address:
COAL INDIA
Calcutta
For Central Coalfields:
Central Coalfields Limited
Darbhanga House
Ranchi
Bihar, India
Cable Address:
COALFIELDS
Ranchi, India
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of Coal India may be taken or
executed by its Chairman-cum-Managing Director or such other
person or persons as Coal India shall designate in writing, and
Coal India shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of Central Coalfields may be taken or executed by
its Chairman-cum-Managing Director or such other person or
persons as Central Coalfields shall designate in writing, and
Central Coalfields shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
#C-rlVq Regional Vice President
South Asia
COAL INDIA LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative
CENTRAL COALFIELDS LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Central Coalfields shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Central Coalfields shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 14 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if
the bidder shall have   established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in India
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 15 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which, as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid, shall
be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to the first ten contracts, and, thereafter,
with respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$5,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Central Coalfields shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's    concurrence  before  it  is  issued  to t,e
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Central
Coalfields shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Central Coalfields
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 16 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Central Coalfields shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Central Coalfields and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Central Coalfields shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform        Central
Coalfields and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J        day of,/(a-, 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


