 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14896

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/19/2016

               Country: Yemen, Republic of
             Project ID: P070092                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Ry Taiz Municipal            Project Costs (US$M):                      50.00                N.A,
                         Dev & Flood Protec
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       45.20             114.74
      Sector Board:        Urban Development          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              11/01/2001
                                                               Closing Date:             12/31/2005        12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Flood protection (74%); Sub-national government administration (24%); Other social
                           services (2%)
          Theme(s):        Other social development (20%); Water resource management (20%); Municipal governance
                           and institution building (20%); Decentralization (20%); Natural disaster management (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                   Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
C.Y. Nunez-Ollero          Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
"To assist the Borrower in:
    (1) strengthening the institutional capacity of the local government in the Taiz governorate to carry out its
    mandate under the Local Authorities Law; and
    (2) protecting the residents and businesses of the city of Taiz as well as the city's infrastructure, from seasonal
    destructive flooding." (Development Credit Agreement p. 16)
    (3) to initiate support for Yemen's decentralization program" (PAD, p.2)

The PDOs were revised twice -
The 1st Additional Financing credit (2008)dropped the third objective.
The 2nd Additional Financing credit (2009) revised the objectives but not substantially (Financing Agreement, 2009,
p.5) to:
     (1) protecting the residents, economic activities, and infrastructure from the destructive effects of seasonal
     flooding in Taiz, Hadramout, and Al-Mahara;
     (2) restoring access to critical road infrastructure damaged by the floods; and
     (3) strengthening the capacity of local governments and support for decentralization.

In line with IEG guidelines, this review assesses the objectives in the financing agreements.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 04/25/2009

c. Components:
 There are 4 original components. Two Additional Financing credits expanded Components 1 and 3.

1. Flood Protection Measures (appraisal estimate US$ 33.0 million, actual cost US$ 99.56 million). This financed
flood structures, street modifications to improve drainage, deferred maintenance to the existing agricultural dam,
engineering and construction supervision, equipment and operating costs to clean flood structures, and an
environmental management plan.

The1st Additional Financing credit (2008) expanded this component (appraisal estimate US$ 18.3 million, actual not
available, ICR, p. 33) to include flood damage protection channels; street paving; retaining walls; footpaths; and
sewage collection connections.

The 2nd Additional Financing grant (2009) following the 2008 floods further increased this component (appraisal
estimate US$ 38.54 million, actual US$ 32.8 million) to include national flood protection and post disaster
infrastructure reconstruction by rehabilitating and reconstructing priority segments of damaged regional road network;
flood protection system in 77 locations in the 2 governorates of Hadramout and Al Mahara; and retroactive financing
(US$ 2.4 million) of roads that posed risks to vehicles.

2. Resettlement - (appraisal estimate US$ 1.3 million, actual cost US$ 3 million). This financed the Resettlement
Action Program, including site improvements, new housing for displaced population, up to US$ 500 cash resettlement
grants per household, and funds for a local non governmental organization to monitor the Resettlement Action
Program.

3. Capacity Building for Local Councils (appraisal estimate US$ 11.05 million, actual cost US$ 11.7 million). This
financed experts to help implement the government's decentralization policy, develop own resource mobilization
mechanisms, local financial management system, medium term city development strategy, comprehensive solid
waste strategy, form a new public works department, and conduct public awareness campaign for public health and
safety issues relative to solid waste and flash floods. This component also financed equipment, training, and
infrastructure identified by Local Councils as well as project management.

The 1st Additional Financing credit (2008) expanded this component (appraisal estimate US$ 3.8 million, actual not
available, ICR, p. 33) to include construction and equipment of 2 more local council buildings; equipment for the new
General Authority for Land, Surveys, and Urban Planning, formulate a viable national and local level framework for
land management, registration, and urban planning; studies, design for sanitary solid waste disposal; and civil
defense strategy and equipment for use in emergency response program.

The 2nd Additional Financing credit (2009) further expanded this component (appraisal estimate US$ 2.5 million,
actual US$ 2.2 million) to finance flood protection plan for critically affected areas of Wadi Hadramout governorate;
storm water drainage master plan for the capital of Wadi Hadramout governorate; and technical assistance for local
government disaster preparedness, mitigation, and response.

4. Project Preparation Facility (appraisal estimate US$ 0.5 million, actual costs US$ 0.5 million). This financed civil
works engineering and an Environmental Impact Assessment.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost - Total project cost at completion (including the 2 Additional Financing credits) reached US$ 114.74
million, more than twice the original appraisal estimate of US$ 50 million. Component 2 was more than twice the
appraisal cost estimate for two reasons - one, the resettlement site was declared public at appraisal but was later
claimed by a landowner which led to protracted negotiations; and two, the number of affected families increased from
170 to 240 households. The overall increase in project cost is due to the scaling up of the flood protection works (82%
of the 1st and 94% of the 2nd Additional Financing credits) in response to the 2008 floods.

Financing IDA funded this Specific Investment Loan at XDR 35.6 million or US$ 45.2 million equivalent. At closure,
US$ 114.7 million was disbursed and US$ 1.9 million cancelled. Two Additional Financing credits of US$ 20 and US$
35 million, respectively, were approved bringing the total financing to US$ 100.2 million. A US$ 3,7 million civil works
contract that could not be implemented during the project period was reallocated to goods (US$ 0.6 million) and
project management (US$ 0.4 million). The undisbursed amount of US$ 1.9 million was cancelled at project close.

Borrower Contribution The government indicated US$ 4.8 million at appraisal and the ICR notes (p. 33) that estimates
were not available at the time the ICR was completed.

Dates There were 9 restructurings (level 2) approved during the 13 year implementation period. Closing was extended
6 times. Two of those extensions were part of the 2 Additional Financing credits, the first one in January 2008 to
increase flood protection investments as informed by the updated Taiz urban master plan, and the second in March
2009 to address the devastation from the flooding in October of the previous year. The other 4 extensions were made
to reallocate resources. The last restructuring in December 2014 cancelled the unused US$ 1.9 million.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial

The project development objectives were revised twice. The first time removed the third objective which was in the
PAD but not in the Financing Agreement (to strengthen the capacity of local governments and support
decentralization). The second time expanded coverage to include the 2 governorates of Hadramout and Al Mahara
which were damaged by the 2008 floods; rephrased the second objective (to restore access to critical road
infrastructure damaged by the floods); and reinstated the third objective supporting the country's nascent
decentralization policy. Both the original and the revised objectives are assessed here.

Yemen remains in a civil war with outside powers intervening. Municipal services continue to suffer wide disruption.
Yemen's difficult political and security situations expose its vulnerability to recovery. Weak governance and
institutional structures remain. Following the 2011 Arab Spring and riots in Yemen, the government, consulting widely
across various interest groups, forged an ambitious Transitional Program for Stabilization and Development to regain
peace and order quickly while working toward medium term goals of strengthened institutions and governance. Its
transition strategy included a January 2014 draft constitution that reestablishes decentralization as a central principle
of government. The project objectives remain relevant to the government's strategy but unworkable until the war is
resolved.

In 2007, in line with its updated urban master plan, Taiz requested additional financing to expand its flood protection
investments. This was approved in 2008 and led to revised development objectives to focus only on flood protection,
removing the general support for the government's decentralization program which continuned to be plagued by lack
of resources and weak capacity. Then, in 2008, a tropical storm caused floods and heavily damaged remote
Hadramout and Al-Mahara governorates. The government requested the World Bank to assess its post disaster
needs. Damages amounted to 6% of the country's GDP (ICR, p. 3), cost 73 lives, damaged 6,400 houses, displaced
about 25,000 people and livelihood of over 50% of the population in the 2 governorates. Emergency relief efforts
were delayed by damaged regional road networks. The government realized that local governments could play an
important role in implementing future disaster risk management efforts under its decentralization program. In 2009, a
second additional financing credit was approved to include Hadramout and Al Mahara in addition to Taiz, restore
critical road infrastructure damaged by the floods, and reinstate the support for the government's decentralization
program through strengthened local government capacity.

For its part, the Bank offered support to the government's strategy in its 2012 Interim Strategy Note which remain
relevant to the objectives of this operations. That note highlights the need to address the country's vulnerability to
disasters and avoid deepening poverty. Governance and local service delivery form pillar 3 of the ISN. However, in
March 2015, citing security concerns, the Bank suspended all its operations in the country, including IDA.

b. Relevance of Design:
Modest

The activities and components are sufficient to achieve the first two of the three objectives. Infrastructure design
followed the Taiz Flood Disaster Prevention and Municipal Development Project completed in 1998. Design focused
on appropriate physical investments to address flood protection.

Support to nascent decentralization was relevant to build capacity at the local level but appears to have not
realistically recognized that the framework was weak, the starting capacity was lacking and the resources were
inadequate. The 2006 Decentralization strategy allowed for greater fiscal and political decentralization but remained
unsupported by adequate resources. The start-stop history on decentralization suggests that the Bank was premature
in reinstating this objective when the 2nd Additional Financing credit was approved in 2009. IEG does not agree with
this decision because (1) the PAD indicated that the Bank wanted to exert some pressure in implementing
decentralization by including this objective early on; (2) after 8 years of implementation, the 1st Additional Financing
paper rightly brought back the project's development objectives to focus on flood protection investments only; and, (3)
even the PAD noted that the resources were only to "initiate" support and qualified this with less than 10% of
resources to meet this objective.

The strategy of parallel support to both infrastructure investment (flood control was well funded) and the still evolving
policy (decentralization) were not well defined or thoroughly supported by resources. First, decentralization was
supported, then removed during a restructuring, then reinstated and still with limited resources and components
(plans, strategies, studies, training) to provide lasting impact. The results framework incorporated output indicators but
lacked outcome targets that would better define the causal chain for the third objective. For example, the services to
be delivered at the local level were undefined (ICR, p. 9) while the baseline parameters of what remains to be
addressed by this flood control project were also missing. Baselines and targets should have been more robust, and
evaluation of project outcomes and attribution of results should have been more consistent.

The 2nd Additional Financing credit (2009) responded to immediate reconstruction needs. The shortcomings of the
original results framework remained even then. The results framework was substantially revised at the 7th
restructuring (May 2013) but contained incomplete targets or undefined baselines. The ICR notes that the revised
results framework was not adequately monitored in the ensuing Implementation Status Reports. Given that the Bank
ISN pointed to the need to strengthen the monitoring of outcomes, the project could have used the restructuring
events to improve indicators and document lessons from the decentralization experience to inform the way forward.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a 2008 Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio and noted
that design was appropriate but that the time frame to complete major infrastructure and implement institutional reform
was unrealistic.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The original objectives :

(1) strengthening the institutional capacity of the local government in the Taiz governorate to carry out its mandate
under the Local Authorities Law; Modest

    Outputs:
         The Taiz governorate created 2 new departments - Finance and Public Works - which produced an annual
          budget in 2005, and auditable accounts in 2003. A 20-year Taiz urban master plan update was completed as
          well as the following studies - a solid waste management, municipal finance, and urban poverty analysis
          (targets met).
         Taiz conducted a public awareness campaign on local service delivery through a workshop on urban poverty
          and analysis strategy.
         The Taiz Department of Public Works procured and received training on GIS equipment and solid waste
          collection equipment (targets met).
         15 district council buildings were completed with office equipment (targets met) in Taiz and Ibb
          governorates.

    Outcomes:
         Taiz delivered some services but no target values were provided. There was not further information if
          auditable accounts continued beyond 2003. 23% of the population benefited from improved solid waste
          services and there was improved maintenance of flood protection structures, roads, dam. The updated
          master plan identified additional flood protection investment needs which led the government to request
          additional financing using the cost savings from contracts and exchange rate gains from favorable
          appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar.
         There was no further information on the new departments, its staffing nor its operations. Neither was there
          information if local authorities conducted training for councilors or communities beyond the workshops held.
          The lack of evidence imply little progress for the city to carry out functional assignments under the Local
          Authorities Law. There was no further information on the implementation of the decentralization policy.

(2) protecting the residents and businesses of the city of Taiz as well as the city's infrastructure, from seasonal
destructive flooding; Substantial

    Outputs:
         The following were completed - 19.8 km. (target 8 km) of flood control structures, 39.8 km, of newly paved
          roads, 20 pedestrian bridges, 18.2 km of sidewalks, 34.5 km of expanded sewerage network (no targets)
          and deferred dam maintenance (target met).
         Dam and flood protection maintenance equipment were procured ) and the hangar in which these would be
          housed was completed (targets met).
         Flood control structures were maintained by 15 staff using YR 25 million as of 2009 (target met)
         240 (target 170) families were resettled,with each family receiving a grant of about US $500. All housing,
          multipurpose community center, health clinic, administration building for the NGO to monitor site
          improvements were completed.

    Outcomes:
         Damages from floods and loss of lives were avoided. Costs of repair to public infrastructure were reduced
          (baseline US $95,000 to 0 in 2007). Business closings due to floods and damages to business
          establishments were reduced (baseline 600 to 0 in 2007). Increase in property values (both housing and
          business) were reported. Damages to residential properties were reduced (baseline 160 to 0 in 2007).
         Cost savings from construction contracts led to additional flood control investments. Numerous businesses
          opened along transport lines and improved access to the project area.
         Families along the banks of the constructed flood protection structures were resettled and an NGO is
          supporting and operating the training facility in the resettled area.

The revised objectives :

(1) protecting the residents, economic activities, and infrastructure from the destructive effects of seasonal flooding in
Taiz, Hadramout, and Al-Mahara; Modest

    Outputs:
         In Taiz, the following were completed: 8.6 km (target 5.1 km) of flood protection structures, 2.1 km (target
          1.5 km) of retaining walls, 15.3 km (target 13.8 km) of sewerage network, upgraded 24.6 km (target 22 km)
          of roads, 30 km (target 2.4 km) of foot paths, 1 pedestrian bridge (no target) and about 2,000 sewer
          connections (target met).
         In Hadramout, the following were completed: repair of 40 km (target met) of roads, additional 6.5 km of
          roads, and other protection works such as retaining walls, embankments, etc. (targets met)

    Outcomes:
         Residents, businesses and structures in all 3 governorates were protected from the impact of seasonal
          flooding through improved infrastructure and reduced mortality and morbidity rates from malaria.
         Taiz improved its flood protection capacity, saved lives, prevented substantial damage to buildings,
          expanded sewage collection and treatment to cover previously unserved areas, and addressed untreated
          sewerage in Amira Dam.

(2) restoring access to critical road infrastructure damaged by the floods; Substantial

    Outputs:
         Flood protection covered 2,500 hectares (target 3,584 hectares) in 2 governorates
         The following infrastructure components were completed: paved 24..6 km. (target 23.2) of roads, 30 km.
          (target 2.4 km.) of sidewalks, 46.5 km distributed along 861 km of roads to access three smaller villages and
          solid waste collection increased to 9,000 tons.

    Outcomes:
         The project benefited 250,000 residents of which 49% were female. However, there was no data on the
          value of reduced losses or crops protected.
         About 90% of businesses (target 100%) in Taiz were less affected by floods
         Annual expenditures of emergency repairs to damaged infrastructure were reduced by 30% (against a base
          of 50%, target was 20% of all expenditures).
         Travel time to affected areas was reduced (otherwise inaccessible).

(3) strengthening the capacity of local governments and support decentralization; Negligible

    Outputs:
         Citizen services provided by local administration at 12 (target 15) local council buildings
         CGIS training, 5 district development plans (target 5) were completed. The following were developed:
          national and local level framework for public land management, traffic system management study
         In Taiz, 12 design and bid documents for Ibb flood protection contract were prepared (unplanned).
         In Hadramout road maintenance equipment was provided (target met) as well as furniture to a cultural center
          and the governor's office (unplanned).

    Outcomes:
         The following were not carried out (under the 1st Additional Financing credit) - municipal finance study,
          municipal service delivery capacity building, street addressing and parcel numbering, two local council
          buildings, design of sanitary solid waste landfill and an independent integrated Environment and Social
          Impact Assessment. The 2 additional Local Council buildings were not constructed
         The following were not implemented as part of the 2004 Mid Term Review - a management study and a local
          government training program, the latter because of lack of responsiveness from the Ministry of Local
         Administration. After completing the initial work in Al Mahara, it became inaccessible and coordination also
         suffered because the implementing units were based in Hadramout.

 5. Efficiency:
  Modest
Economic and Financial
Cost benefit and Net Present Value analyses were utilized. At appraisal the project achieved an economic rate of
return of 17% based on 74% of total project cost - flood protection and resettlement costs (PAD, Annex 4, p. 27). The
ICR modified the assumptions (ICR, Annex 3, p. 38) to include the two Additional Financing credits and reached US$
74 million NPV and an ERR of 28% against a modified appraisal NPV of US$ 49.7 million and an ERR of 34%.

The 2013 Restructuring Paper cited that project delays had no effect on efficiency . The 2nd Additional Financing
credit (2009) emergency paper indicated that delays affected the project's NPV. IEG agrees that the extended delays
of the project would have had a significant effect on the ERR but the ICR does not reflect the impact from these delays
in recalculating the project ERR.

Cost effectiveness is modest since not all desired outcomes were achieved even though overall costs increased with
the additional financing.

Administrative and Operational Efficiency

Implementation took an excessively long 13-year period accompanied by 9 restructurings, 6 of which extended the
project. There were cost savings and exchange rate gains early in the project, and the government requested these
savings to finance additional flood control investments as identified by the updated master plan. The 1st Additional
Financing credit was approved in 2008 after some delays because of non-availability of IDA resources at that time.
The 2008 floods had a disastrous impact on these flood control investments and devastated two other governorates,
which led to the 2nd Additional Financing credit and further extended the project. Only US$ 1.9 million remain
undisbursed by project close, 9 years later than planned. A new operation would have been more appropriate after the
floods since rapid response provisions of OP 8.00 would have offset any benefits of time saved under the additional
financing route.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                      17%                                     74%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                      28%                                     80%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Project development objectives were substantially relevant but not workable while the country remained at war. The
objectives were revised twice, the first time to remove the support for decentralization, and the second time (in 2009)
to formally add it back. This start - stop support to the nascent decentralization policy points to a shortcoming in the
relevance of design, in implementation and in the ability of the project to meet its objectives. Unrest occurred during
project operations which led to suspending all operations in the country toward the end of the project.

Project outcome is assessed in two segments - the first using the original objectives and the second using the revised
objectives, weighted in proportion to the shares of disbursements made in the period before and after the approval of
the revised objectives (in 2009).

Prior to the revisions, disbursements reached 50% of the total spend, and efficacy was rated modest for the first
objective and substantial for the second. Design and efficiency remained modest even as relevance of objectives was
substantial but not workable because of the unrest. These factors contribute to a rating of moderately unsatisfactory
(assigned a value of 3) and a weighted value of the outcome of 1.5.

After the 2009 restructuring and additional financing, the remaining disbursements were 48% of the total with 2%
being cancelled. Efficacy in meeting the first objective was rated modest, the second objective was rated substantial
and the third objective was rated negligible. Design and efficiency remained modest. Design was modest primarily
because it did not adequately take into account the political economy and sensitivity associated with implementing a
still evolving decentralization policy. There was not enough capacity at the local level for devolved responsibilities.
There were no institutions in place to receive training in disaster risk reduction and mitigation. Relevance of objectives
was substantial, but as noted above, not workable because of the war. These factors contribute to a rating of
unsatisfactory (assigned a value of 2) and a weighted value of the outcome of 1.

The outcome of the project after the split rating remains at unsatisfactory with a weighted value of 2.5 and after
rounding up results in a rating of MU.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The country remains fragile, there is a civil war with outside powers intervening. All Bank operations, including IDA,
remain suspended in 2015. Conflict poses direct damage to the infrastructure. The useful life of the infrastructure
investments may not be reached. Operational and maintenance needs of these infrastructure may not materialize.
Capacity to operate, maintain these works may not be retained. Decentralization and disaster preparedness
improvements are unlikely to materialize in the short term. Post conflict needs will result in competing reconstruction
needs and increased threat from flooding will affect preparedness.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank prepared the project using the results of an earlier flood management program in Taiz which closed
in 1998. Overall design was built on good analysis of sector needs. Capacity building components were added to
sustain investments using the evolving decentralization policy. Social development aspects focused on
resettlement. The infrastructure components of the three parts of the project were generally well defined. Local
government strengthening and decentralization incorporated at subsequent additional financing and rapid
response to the 2008 storm and flood disaster were sufficient. However, support for the evolving decentralization
policy may have been premature. Project documentation highlights the poor quality of the initial results framework.


The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a 2008 Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio and
assessed the quality at entry a "2", i.e., likely to achieve development objective. That QALP points to simple
design, clear objectives for the infrastructure investment portion of the project, and the very general description of
the other two objectives adequate to fit the evolving context. QALP cites an ambitious but appropriate initial 4 year
time frame, to pressure the government into speedy implementation of the policy. The ICR correctly points out this
was a shortcoming reflected in lowered efficiency and numerous extensions.

The PAD rightly identifies that sustainability of project outcome would depend on (i) the political will to implement
decentralization; (ii) citizen satisfaction with how decentralization proceeds; (iii) strong local financial foundations;
and (iv) adequacy of human resources (PAD, p. 17). The associated risks these factors generate include the
substantial risk from continuing lack of capacity to implement decentralization. The PAD merely identifies targeted
technical assistance to mitigate this risk. High risks were associated with elected local councils resisting allocating
budgets for flood control operations and maintenance and citizens resisting resource mobilization efforts to fund
such budgets. The PAD points out that targeted technical assistance, together with public awareness campaign
on the devolved roles of local governments under the Local Authorities Law of 2000, mitigate the risks. Risks
associated with resettlement were rated modest since the design called for intensive supervision of this
component by local staff to be hired under the project. The project acknowledged substantial and high risks in
project design but did not provide adequate details to mitigate these risks. The mitigating efforts were focused
mostly on the infrastructure component of the project and less on the risks posed by the evolving decentralization
policy.

Key lessons from previous projects that informed project design include the need (i) to identify sources and
earmark budgets for operating and maintaining capital improvements; (ii) for experienced staff to implement the
project; (iii) to simplify objectives; and (iv) to allocate minimal amounts for high risk components. This project was
designed to build the local government's capacity to raise revenues and dedicate resources for operating and
maintenance of flood control investments. The project retained the experienced Project Management Unit from the
earlier flood control project to implement the project. The project originally focused on 2 development objectives
and allocated less than 15% of the project funds for support to decentralization which the team acknowledged to
be a high risk component. Another lesson incorporated into the design was in the area of procurement. When the
1st Additional Financing credit was approved, project components were bundled into smaller, multiple packages
for faster execution. Design, however, suffered from premature support to the evolving decentralization policy as
the anchor to build local capacity in budgeting for recurring expenses to support the operating and maintenance
needs of flood control capital improvements. The effectiveness of the design was further hampered by the
deliberate minimal resources in support of the high risk policy.

The framework for safeguard compliance was adequate. The project was originally rated as Category A, requiring
a full assessment which the government carried out prior to effectiveness. The project triggered OP 4.12 and a
Resettlement Action Plan was in place to accompany the project component to resettle 170 families. A full time
environmental and safety officer regularly monitored compliance with safeguards. By the time the 1st Additional
Financing credit was approved in 2008, the project was downgraded to a Category B because the subsequent
components focused only on replacement. Design specifically avoided having to trigger OP 4.12 for expedient
implementation. If additional financing triggered relocation (OP 4.12), the project already had the Resettlement
Action Plan in place and an environmental and safety officer to ensure compliance.

The PAD cites (p. 2) that the Government aimed to establish over the initial 2 years the basic organizational
structures at the local levels to initiate local budget preparation and investment planning. The Bank used this initial
commitment to push the decentralization policy by designing a 4 year implementation period and minimal budget
allocation. This design backfired, however, since initial capacity was already weak, the policy was evolving and
had not gained traction, and, the design called for minimal resources. Quality at entry suffered from holes in
project documentation, lack of clarity on the results framework, and limited presentation of context (taking off of
investment needs to address gaps from the previous flood control project). (ICR, p. 12).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank fielded missions regularly and relied on the country office for support. On occasion, missions of other
projects were used to supervise the project if the project team could not do so. The project met serious difficulties
due to the war in Iraq, which led to suspended mission travel January - May 2003, and 2011, and civil unrest
which led to a 6 month disbursement suspension. Bank procurement approval processes were delayed especially
during the time of transition between task team leaders. A July/August 2004 Mid Term Review resulted in
relocating the project director from Sana'a to Taiz for closer daily supervision of the activities.

Starting in 2013 when the Bank could no longer access remote project sites in Hadramout and Al Mahara, a third
party monitoring entity was used, but, because of lack of Bank follow up, did not effectively document the outcome
of project components.

The response to the 2008 flooding may have been better served by a separate operation using OP 8.00. The
timing of another operation would have been protracted and could have been approved within the same time
frame as the restructuring that resulted in additional financing. The Bank team was worried that there was not
enough talent to implement the project on the ground since the earlier project was granted additional financing
(2008) and would end in 2010. The Bank team thought there were not enough local financial experts and that this
would hamper the implementation of a new operation. The lack of accountants and auditors was raised as a risk to
implementation, but mitigated by piggy backing the operations on the existing project.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a 2008 Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio and
assessed quality of supervision a "2", i.e., likely to achieve development objective. The ICR correctly points out
this was a shortcoming reflected in lowered efficiency and numerous extensions.

The substantial shortcoming on the part of the Bank is the M&E weakness throughout the project. Project
extensions were not used to address known weaknesses in the M&E framework. The project did not fully
document results. The qualitative aspects of capacity building were missing. There were a total of 5 consecutive
task team leaders over the course of the 13 years of project implementation and at one point the frequency of the
changes caused delays in issuing "no objection" letters. Loss of institutional memory and poor documentation
were noted by the ICR preparers in presenting a coherent storyline.

The Bank reported adequately supervising safeguards and fiduciary issues. There were reported instances of
delays in responding to requests for no objection which contributed to delayed implementation. The Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG)'s 2008 Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio noted that social safeguards
were of good quality and that the Environmental Management Plan provided adequate details on mitigation
measures, responsibilities, costs, and monitoring and supervision arrangements. One contract was investigated
by the INT, but the investigation did not reveal any problems, as reported under the 2008 QALP. This same QALP
also noted that safeguards work was well executed by the Bank
   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The government was operating in a difficult environment from preparation to implementation. The government
established an inter-ministerial steering committee for improved implementation of the capacity building aspect of
the project, but there is little mention of how effective this committee was in moving the project forward. While
decentralization was met by the lack of capacity at the local level and unclear division between central agencies
devolving functions, there were efforts made to ensure minimal resource mobilization and expenditure planning.
Of concern is that while the decentralization law was signed in 2000 and revamped in 2006, it remained pending in
2008, at the time of additional financing.

Government procedures were not always helpful to project implementation. It took an unduly long time to approve
procurement documents, and there was a lack of coordination which led to reduced flood protection activities in Al
Mahara, but safeguards and fiduciary compliance were addressed early in the project with minor shortcomings
identified and mitigated at the level of the implementing agency. The government provided required counterpart
funds and stayed engaged in the project through extremely difficult circumstances.

The Cabinet approved in 2006 a National Agenda for Reform, and a Matrix of Good Governance measures which
included transparency principles in public procurement and financial management. In two PRSPs (2006-2010), the
government identified improved governance and fiscal sustainability as strategic focus. Good governance called
for support to decentralization as reflected in the country's 2014 draft constitution.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    After completing the first phase of the flood control project, this same Project Management Unit under the
Ministry of Public Works and Highways became the implementing entity. With the expanded coverage to include
two other governorates in 2009, the PMU became the Project Coordination Unit, based in Sana'a, with 2 locally
based Project Implementation Units - one in Taiz, the other in Seiyun (Hadramout). Works supervision was
adequate. The PMU regularly updated the procurement plan. All safeguards and fiduciary aspects were
adequately managed by the PMU. The PMU did not regularly monitor impact but the ICR notes that the country
itself lacked an M&E tradition (ICR, p. 30). IEG does not agree that this is relevant to the lack of satisfactory M&E
performance of the implementing agency. This drawback should have been flagged and addressed during
implementation, a Bank supervision shortcoming.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project's M&E system did not establish baselines or targets of outcome indicators (ICR, p.14). The 2001
results framework clearly linked the development objectives to the infrastructure components but not for capacity
building. There were no baselines or targets established for some intermediate indicators. Neither did the Additional
Financing Papers I and II contain baselines and targets. There were no methods offered on how to monitor
decentralization activities. Data collection responsibilities were not clearly established.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The project collected baseline data but did not measure outcome indicators (ICR, p. 14). Data collection and
progress reporting measured outputs. Progress toward meeting the development objectives were not documented.
Aide memoirs, ISRs, and the 2008 QALP highlighted the need to evaluate progress towards the PDO. The ICR notes
that ISRs did not report on indicators because of the need to review the results framework but there was no follow up
by the Bank until the approval of the 2nd Additional Financing credit (2009). Even then, since the M&E function was
delegated to the Environment Specialist in Seylun, data from Taiz was not collected, which limited analysis of how to
meet decentralization capacity building needs in Taiz. There was inadequate attention to outcomes documentation.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Data collected was used to track outputs and physical project progress. The procurement plan was used to track
implementation progress. The EPP states that the parent project achieved its objective even though targets were
missing for some indicators.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as category "A" and triggered Operational Policy 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and
Operational Policy 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) (PAD, p. 16). A full time environment and safety officer monitored
compliance with safeguard instruments which was updated and published for each additional financing. At the 1st
Additional Financing (2008) credit, the project was downgraded to category "B" because the components under the
additional credits did not trigger OP 4.12. The Restructuring Paper for the 2nd Additional Financing credit also
retained a category B classification.

Prior to the downgrade, the project completed an Environmental Monitoring Plan budgeted at $80,000 over the life of
the project under component 1 (PAD, p. 15). This item included a comprehensive dam inspection and deferred
maintenance of the dam valued at US $ 1.5 million. Under component 3, US $ 0.2 million was allocated for Taiz to
prepare a solid waste management strategy. Another US $0.1 million was set aside for a public awareness campaign
on public health and safety issues related to solid waste and flash floods. An Environment and Safety Officer was to
be hired with specific responsibilities to assure compliance with safeguards. A local non governmental organization,
coordinated by the resettlement officer of the project management unit, also monitored compliance with the
resettlement action plan.

World Bank safeguard procedures were complied with (ICR, p. 16).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement

The PMU was responsible for procurement. The procurement plan was regularly updated and was used to monitor
progress. Lengthy approval times for Yemen's High Tender Board as well as the Bank's on occasion lengthy no
objection response time, and the Bank's prior review of most of the procurement activities led to substantial
procurement delays. The ICR notes procurement procedures were complied with.

Financial Management

The PMU was responsible for financial management. There has been a financial management system in place since
2002. A Chart of Accounts was developed and included in the Operational Manual which describes applicable
accounting policies and procedures, including internal controls. Supervision identified financial management problems
early on. A series of financial management reports was listed as "qualified" without further explanations. Final audit
reports were submitted on 8/23/2015 which cited the lack of internal audit functions in the project management unit.
Financial management appears to be inconsistent at best. The ICR notes that World Bank financial management
procedures were complied with (ICR, p. 16).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR draws 6 lessons. The three most important with some editing are:

    A project team should take advantage of the provisions offered by OP/BP 8.00 for rapid rebuilding response
     following a disaster rather than piggy backing on an existing operation. This need is even more acute when
     facing a weak implementation capacity or nascent institutions such as in Yemen. Achieving disaster resilient
     replacement infrastructure requires focus. As this project shows, meeting the objectives of the original
     operations were sidelined by attention to additional financing.
    Project restructuring even if initiated by a need to extend the implementation period should be used as an
     opportunity to improve a project's results framework, including the appropriateness of objectives. By doing this,
     both the country and the Bank project teams could revalidate assumptions to best achieve objectives and
     consider project efficacy and efficiency if a Mid Term review does not capture these points.
    When the time comes to re-engage in Yemen, and when supporting new policy, a useful approach could be
     parsing components into chunks of discrete deliverables, much like the procurement approach used in this
     project under the 1st Additional Financing credit. Limited implementation capacity could be boosted by
     repetitive, small contracting processes to build experience and confidence.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided some evidence, where available, to support the analysis and was frank in instances where it was
inadequate. The quality of the analysis was hampered by insufficient information. The document was candid and
concise. Lessons were based on evidence Effort was made to focus on results even if scant, as well as establish
internal consistency. The ICR follows OPCS guidelines. The cost effectiveness analysis to verify assumptions at
appraisal was fully discussed but missed a more thorough discussion of the inefficiencies brought by a long
implementation period.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
