Document of
T, The World Bank
g   \    IR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE C0OPY
Report No. 2673ja-IND
INDONESIA
FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 12, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1.00        =  Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100         =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)               -  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                     -  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)       -  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  -  2.47 acres
I cubic meter (cu m)            -  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)  -  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                     -  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)          -  0.35 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                 -  2.2 pounds
I metric ton (ton)              -  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton paddy (gabah) = 630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PREVIOUS IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Project No.       Ln./Cr. No.      Year approved        Ln./Cr. Amount
US$ million
I            Cr. 127-IND           1968                   5.0
II            Cr. 195-IND           1970                  18.5
III             Cr. 220-IND          1970                  14.5
IV             Cr. 289-IND          1972                  12.5
V             Cr. 514-IND          1974                  30.0
VI             Ln. 1100-IND         1975                  65.0
VII             Ln. 1268-IND         1976                  33.0
VIII             Ln. 1434-IND         1977                  63.0
IX            Ln. 1435-IND          1977                  35.0
X            Ln. 1578-IND          1978                 140.0
XI             Ln. 1579-IND         1978                  31.0
XII             Ln. 1645-IND         1978                  77.0
XIII             Ln. 1691-IND         1979                  50.0



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS            - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan "Mass Guidance
for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input credit
program
BRI              - Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG      - Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD/KUD         - Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village Unit
Cooperative
DGWRD            - Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
DGFC             - Directorate-General of Food Crops
DIP              - Project Implementation Budget
GOI              - Government of Indonesia
HYV              - High-Yielding Variety
INMAS           - Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input programs
INPRES          - Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a complex of rural public works programs
IPEDA           - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
NFCE             - National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M              - Operation and Maintenance
PIBD            - Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi Dengan Bantuan Bank
Dunia, "Executive Body for Major Irrigation Projects Wlith
World Bank Assistance"
PROSIDA          - Proyek Irigasi IDA - a special project executive body of
DGWRD created to execute IDA-assisted projects
Paddy            -      Unhusked Rice
Secondary Crops - Nonrice sta'ple food crops.
Major ones are maize, soybean, groundnut, vegetables and
tub ers
Ulu-ulu          - Water master
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA: APPRAISAL OF THE
FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Project Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Sector Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Role and Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Food  Crops  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
Tree   Crops  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Area Development and Transmigration . . . . . . . . . .        4
Role of Government ... . . . . ..                             4
Bank Lending Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
The Irrigation Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
2. THE PROJECT AREAS . .........                                     9
Location  . . . . . . . . . .  .... ... ..                    9
Climate   .  .  .  .  .   . .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
Soils, Topography and Drainage  . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure . . . . . . . . .       9
Agricultural Support Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Existing Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Works Completed with Previous Bank Group Assistance . .    15
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
3.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Project Works . . . . . . . . . . . .                        18
Basis for Design of Serang River Drainage and Flood
Protection  ...  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   19
Water Supply, Demand and Quality for Irrigation
Components .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2. . . . . .    0
Status of Engineering .          . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .   21
Implementation Schedules  .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Cost Estimates .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
Procurement .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Disbursements . . .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Accounts and Audits .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Environmental Effects ..         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Project Management .  . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Consultants and Training .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Agricultural Support Services .        . . . . . . . . . . . .   29



- ii 
Page No.
Operation and Mainl:enance . .      .     . . . . . . . .     29
Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         30
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection  . . . . . .    31
Madiun Irrigation Rehabilitation Stage II . . . . . . .    33
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean Tertiary Irrigation
Systems.   .... . .                                         34
Drying, Storage ane Processing  . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT
CHARGES   .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34
Market Prospects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .                      35
Farm Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37
Project Charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    43
Main Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis . . . . . . . .  43
Economic Rates of Return. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Sensitivity Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ... .        .  .  .  .  .    .   49
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
2.1  Agricultural Land in Serang Subproject  . . . . . . . . .    14
2.2  Tertiary Development in Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean        17
3.1  Project Cost Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
3.2  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
4.1  Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
5.1  Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production  . . . . . . . .    32
6.1  Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizers  . . . . .   36
6.2  Input and Output Price Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
6.3  Summary of Farm Incomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
6.4  Project Charges Averaged Over Project Areas .40
6.5  Cost and Rent Recovery Indices. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
7.1  Economic Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
7.2  Economic Costs and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
7.3  Sensitivity Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48



- iii -
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimate, Expenditures, Disbursements,
Allocation of Loan Proceeds, List of Vehicles and
Equipment, Work Quantities and Unit Prices, Consulting
Services, Breakdown of Cost Estimates by Credit
Category   . . . . . . . .              . .                    51
2. Crop and Farm Budgets, Rent Recovery, Crop Production
Costs, Economic Benefits per Hectare . . . . . . . . . .        59
3.  Schedule of Early Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        73
4.  O&M Funds for Bank-Assisted Irrigation Projects. . . . . .        74
5.  Statements of Expenditure  . . . . . . .                          75
6.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File:. . .        76
LIST OF FIGURES
2.1 Serang River System (Schematic) (14616)
3.1 Implementation Schedule (20752)
4.1 DGWRD Organization (18765)
4.2 PROSIDA Management Organization (16008)
4.3 PROSIDA Field Organization (8964)
5.1 Proposed Cropping Calendars (20726)
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13783R- Project Areas and Previously Bank-Assisted
Irrigation Project Areas
IBRD 14508 - Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection Subproject
IBRD 14509 - Madiun Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Subproject
IBRD 14510 - Tertiary Irrigation Systems Subproject - Pemali Comal
IBRD 14511 - Tertiary Irrigation Systems Subproject - Pekalen Sampean



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested Bank assistance for the
construction of drainage and flood protection works to serve about 61,000 ha
of farm lands adjacent to the Serang River in Central Java; for the
rehabilitation of irrigation systems serving some 65,000 ha in the Madiun
Valley in Central Java and for engineering design for rehabilitating four
small dams and for constructing two dams in the Madiun Valley; for the
construction of tertiary irrigation canals and structures serving about
50,000 ha in Pemali-Comal, Central Java, and about 70,000 ha in Pekalen-
Sampean in East Java; for engineering design of about 105,000 ha tertiary
systems in Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean; for the engineering design for
rehabilitation and upgrading of the 20,000 ha Senkareng-Pemali Atas irriga-
tion area; and for construction of about 1,000 additional O&M houses in
nine major irrigation areas.
1.02      The Serang subproject was prepared by the Directorate of Planning
and Programming of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD) assisted by local consultants (P.T. Sangkuriang, P.T. Nusa, and
the University of Semarang) and by foreign consultants (NEDECO, Netherlands)
funded by the Netherlands' Government, and SMEC and associates (Australia)
funded by the Bank Group under Irrigation Project VII./1 Feasibility
studies for the Madiun subproject were completed by PROSIDA, an executive
body of DGWRD, with foreign consultant assistant (Electroconsult, Italy and
Nippon Koei, Japan). The Tertiary Systems subproject was prepared by
PROSIDA. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. R. Hewson, P. Momal, T. Dwyer, A. Banerjee (Bank) and
P.G. Herklots (consultant) which visited Indonesia in June 1979.
Sector Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
/1 A summary of previous Bank Group-assisted irrigation projects appears
in the frontispiece to this report.



-2
Role and Performance
1.04      Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the markedly increased value
of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of
overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80% of
the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households. Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce subsistence and
cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha
produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco.
1.05      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./l Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land and
irrigation development, including that under publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration.  In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irri-
gation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77,
in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall,
and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide Government distribution of recently-introduced pest resistant
varieties. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area
(much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in
yield.
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million. Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 3 -
1.07      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes. Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow. The "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops"
(Report No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
1.08       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction
of the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water
storage projects and by exploiting groundwater Rice yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by constructing tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems, and improving support services. In the Other Islands
there is potential for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp
land development. Despite the scarcity of high-yielding tropical varieties
of secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties could be increased
substantially by improved husbandry, including use of fertilizer and
insecticides. GOI is just beginning to give serious attention to marketing,
credit, seeds and research aimed at varietal improvement for secondary
crops.
Tree Crops
1.09      Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate almost half of total
non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm
are grown primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for
Indonesia's major tree crop projects, only oil palm has shown sustained
large increases in production, due to investment programs by Government and
private estates. With the long immaturity of tree crops, static production
levels are a symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially inadequate
research and extension, and failure to replant with higher-yielding
varieties.
1.10      Smallholder Development.  Efforts to revitalize the smallholder
tree crop sector are commencing on several fronts. One new approach, which
is being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
(NES) projects, is for Government estates to plant and maintain rubber and
oil palm on previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers
selected to be settlers (including local landless families and trans-
migrants) as employees, and thereafter to supply the settlers with inputs,
extension, and processing facilities. Other new plantings of tree crops are



-4-
being included in transmigration projects. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, GOI has also initiated national programs to assist
geographically concentrated groups of existing smallholders to plant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management
Units (FMUs).  Efforts to design a low-cost system of tree crop planting
with minimal demands on management are also starting. Given the vast area
of overaged and lowyielding smallholder rubber and coconuts (smallholder
rubber yields are half those in Malaysia), the good market prospects for
these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative
advantage in them, rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all
suitable approaches, is a high priority. As these programs will place a heavy
demand on technical and managerial personnel, major staff recruitment and
training efforts will be required.
Area Development and Transmigration
1.11      Java.  In 1978, about 85 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated
development projects to address this problem.
1.12      Other Islands.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized transmigration program
is important for regional and natural resource development in the Other
Islands, production of food and export crops, and creation of employment and
decent living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortunately, this program
has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential for
resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating large-scale
regional development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak, uncoor-
dinated implementation. Confronted by management problems, GOI reorganized
the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring implementation
responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration to the line
agencies normally responsible for each sector. This measure needs to be
complemented by continued attention to technical and policy issues including
(a) the suitability of the land for food crops, (b) the role of tree crops
and livestock, (c) appropriate target incomes and farm sizes, (d) the extent
of Government financial, marketing and other services to settlers, and
(e) the role of spontaneous migration. The Second Transmigration Project
(Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to address these issues.
Role of Government
1.13      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role
in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government



-5-
bears the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation,
and other services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overly
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural and rural development
planning and implementation. GOIT's concern for area development has also
increased the need to strengthen provincial and local planning capabilities.
Future programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will necessarily be
complex, requiring closely coordinated programs of agricultural research,
extension, input supply, credit, land development, transport, pricing policies
and marketing. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its key rural
development institutions, particularly through the education, recruitment,
training and retention of technical manpower.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.14      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations
generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.15      Projects.  Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to
include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training,
seeds, transmigration, and resource survey and mapping. The Operations
Evaluation Department's Sector Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural
lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that
despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian
agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely to contribute
substantially to increased production." Within the context of GOI's
agricultural strategy, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a)  a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to
extend water management to the Other Islands;
(b)  production of secondary crops, including second phase projects
for agricultural research, extension and seeds;
(c)  smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(d)  area development projects aimed at (a) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java, (b) integrated rural development of poor
areas on Java, and (c) transmigration.
1.16      Sector Work.  These projects have been and will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services, and food crop



production have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and
of GOI's policies. Reviews of the rubber subsector, the transmigration
program, secondary food crops. land tenure systems, and the supply and
requirements of technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now
underway.
The Irrigation Subsector.
1.17      Although annual rainfall is normally in the range of 1,500 mm to
3,000 mm, its distribution from year to year is unpredictable and even
during the main wet season there are frequently periods when rain is
inadequate for initial stages of plant growth such as post germination,
tillering or flowering. Excessive rainfall causing flooding is equally
common and crop losses in early growth and at harvesting are significant.
Irrigation and drainage are essential, therefore, and are equally important
in controlling weeds and facilitating land preparation - both major
drawbacks with rainfed farming.
1.18      Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia, accounting for
about 60% of the area of all major food crops harvested. In 1978 there were
some 8.9 million ha of rice harvested, of which about 7.7 million ha were
irrigated or grown in rainfed paddy fields which provide almost 95% of total
rice production. Irrigation systems serve an estimated 5.0 million hectares
of land, of which only 2.1 million hectares have technical irrigation./l
1.19      Irrigation development is the responsibility of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), which is within the Ministry
of Public Works. The DGWRD uses the facilities of Provincial Public Works
Offices and in addition frequently retains contractors and consultants to
carry out its work. It is organized along functional lines in six Direct-
orates (e.g., the Directorates of Irrigation, Rivers and Swamps) and has
about 1,200 professional engineering staff.
/1  The four classifications used are "technical", "semi-technical", "simple"
and "village". Technical systems have a water supply system separate
from the drainage system and the volume of incoming water can be measured
at several delivery points. Semi technical systems have fewer permanent
structures, have only one water measuring device (usually at the major
intake) and the supply and drainage systems are not always separate.
Simple systems have no measurement devices and have common irrigation/
drainage facilities. All those are controlled by the Ministry of Public
Works. The remaining "village" systems are constructed, operated and
managed directly by village authorities, usually without professional
engineering advice.



-7-
1.20      In addition to the six Directorates which carry out the regular
DGWRD development program, five special executive bodies /1 have been
established to execute specific development tasks which are funded from
GOI's development budget, frequently with foreign assistance.
1.21      The Bank Group has now made 13 loans or credits for irrigation,
drainage and flood control in Indonesia (totaling US$574.5 million), concen-
trating first on the most urgent rehabilitation of existing works and upgrad-
ing of operation and maintenance services and later on improving and expand-
ing irrigation systems and constructing tertiary systems to increase
irrigation efficiency. The first three projects have been completed, and
a project performance audit has been prepared for the first (PPAR dated
February 13, 1978 on Credit 127-IND). Performance audits are under
preparation for the Second and Third Irrigation Projects. Conclusions of
the PPAR for the First Irrigation Project were that food crop production
increases and economic returns exceeded expectations, and that the
project was an outstanding example of institution building.
1.22      The rehabilitation of about half of the major irrigation systems
(which cover 2.1 million ha in Java) has been completed or is under way, but
poor drainage, inadequate flood protection and rural roads in many of Java's
irrigation systems continue to depress cropping intensities and yields and
hamper the flow of extension services, agricultural products and inputs.
Recent cultivation and deforestation of the catcbments of rivers serving
irrigation systems is accelerating soil erosion, resulting in serious
downstream sedimentation and siltation problems. Additional work on the major
irrigation systems is warranted, and the rather limited potential for
reservoirs and groundwater to expand dry season cropping should be developed
as far as practical. New gravity irrigation systems and swamp and tidal land
development mostly outside Java offer prospects for increasing rice
production, although short-term economic returns on such investments are
likely to be lower than for rehabilitation of irrigation systems or for
tertiary irrigation construction in Java.
1.23      When the Bank Group became involved in Indonesia's irrigation
subsector in 1968, the existing institutional capacity could not, unaided,
have supported the very significant accomplishments in irrigation
rehabilitation and construction over the past few years. In the course of
project work, the Bank Group has played an important supporting role in not
only improving the engineering and management capacity of DGWRD by providing
foreign and local consulting services and training, but also in strength-
ening the capacity of operation and maintenance (O&M) services in the
provinces and in ensuring that increased and timely budgetary support is
directed to O&M. There have been important advances in the local contract-
ing industry and improvements in local consulting capability also. The Bank
/1 PROSIDA (Proyek Irigasi IDA), PIBD (Proyek Irigasi Bank Dunia), P4S
(Proyek Pengembangon Persawahan Pasang Surut), Jakarta Flood Control
Project and the Brantas River Basin Development.



-8-
Group has worked with the Government in introducing multiyear contracts,
with price escalation provisions, where previously work could be contracted
only on an annual budget basis with no guarantee of continuity of work for
contractors. More attractive mobilization and prompter payment provisions
have been introduced also, and an increasing proportion of work is now
awarded to local contractors and consultants.
1.24      A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program /1 concluded
that, to expand rice production at the same rate as demand (about 4% per
year), the level of annual investment in irrigation should be further
increased by about 20% by the end of the third Five-Year Development Plan in
1983. The Government recognizes this and during the Third Plan intends to
rehabilitate and improve 1.0 million ha of existing irrigation systems, to
construct about 0.7 million ha of new irrigation systems, construct about
2 million ha of tertiary systems in existing irrigation schemes, to reclaim
about 0.5 million ha of swamps, and to improve flood protection by improving
rivers presently adversely affecting about 0.7 million ha. Implementation
of this irrigation investment program demands strengthening of DGWRD, espe-
cially in planning and project formulation, training, and staff development.
DGWRD lacks sufficient trained engineers, economists and other staff, and
relies heavily on consultant services in project planning and construction
supervision. For the next few years, DGWRD is expected to continue using
such consultants in order to expand investments in irrigation, drainage and
flood protection. Training and staff development needs are being studied
with Bank assistance under Irrigation Project XII while strengthening the
planning capacity of DGWRD will be supported under the proposed Irrigation
Project XV. Further expansion of agricultural support services provided by
other GOI agencies will be necessary for successful implementation of the
irrigation program, and the Bank is planning to assist projects for
extension, research, seeds and fertilizer distribution.
1.25      Bank Group lending for Indonesian irrigation for the next few
years is expected to place roughly equal emphasis on Java and the Other
Islands, while paying increasing attention to institutional strengthening.
The basic problem to expanding irrigation investments is the lack of
sufficient numbers of high caliber DGWRD engineers who are free from
administrative functions to undertake engineering design and construction
supervision; a similar situation exists in project planning and economic
evaluation. A balanced program of investments in irrigation, drainage and
flood protection and swamp reclamation will be persued while seeking to
strengthen DGWRD in project planning, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring to gradually lessen the Bank's current heavy involvement in these
aspects. As progress is achieved in these areas, the Bank will also explore
the possibility of eventually moving towards a sector lending approach in
the belief that a broader involvement will permit more effective considera-
tion of the critical problems in this subsector.
1.26      The components of the proposed Irrigation Project XIV comprise
works in Central and East Java designed to intensify rice production in the
/1 Irrigation Program Review Report No. 2027-IND, October 1978.



-9-
major agricultural areas near the Serang River east of Semarang; and in the
irrigated areas in Madiun; in Pemali-Comal; and Pekalen-Sampean. Previous
Bank Group assistance, details of which are described in Chapter 2, was
instrumental in completing some of the most urgent rehabilitation works in
these areas. The proposed works would lead to further increasing irrigation
efficiency and crop production in these areas.
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01      The Serang subproject area is located in a broad coastal plain near
Semarang, on the north coast of Central Java. The region is well served by
air, rail and highway transport and has port facilities in Semarang. The
Madiun subproject area lies inland in the broad valleys formed by the Solo and
Madiun rivers in the western part of East Java province.  MIain highways and
railways run through the area and connect to the port cities of Semarang and
Surabaya. Tertiary development subproject areas are located on the north
coast of Central Java province (Pemali-Comal) and on the south eastern coast
of East Java province (Pekalen-Sampean).
Climate
2.02      The climate in Java is tropical and monsoonal.  Temperatures vary
only slightly from the annual average of 260C in all subproject areas. The
rainy season extends from October/November to April/May with about 80% of
annual rainfall during these months and a distinct dry season during the
remainder of the year. Mean annual rainfall is about 2,000 mm in the Serang
subproject area; 1,900 mm in the Madiun subproject area; and 1,700 mm in the
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean areas.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
2.03      Soils in the Serang subproject area are mostly alluvial clays of
volcanic origin. Percolation rates are low, and with supplementary nitrogen
and phosphorus, the soils are well suited to intensive rice cultivation and
for dry season secondary food crop production. Most of the area is flat and
has poor surface drainage, while some parts are inundated each year. Soils
at Madiun are also of volcanic origin. They range from clay loams to heavy
clays, all of which are moderately permeable except for the heavier clays.
The valleys have mostly clay soils which are ideal for rice cultivation,
while secondary crops grow mostly on the better drained soils and on
surrounding foothills. Drainage is generally good, except in some valley
bottoms. Tertiary development areas are flat plains typically with clay
soils of volcanic origin, well suited to irrigated rice cultivation and to
dry season secondary food crops.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.04      The number of farm families which would directly benefit from the
project is estimated to be about 0.6 million (150,000 in the Serang River



- 10 -
subproject area; 160,000 in Madiun; and 260,000 in the tertiary development
areas). In addition, an estimated 0.3 million landless laborers would
directly benefit from increased farm employment. Landless laborers comprise
about 40% of the rural population in the subproject areas. Average farm size
is about 0.4 ha, except in the Pekalen-Sampean area where it is marginally
higher (0.5 ha). Farm size data are sketchy, but the following from the
Madiun area is believed representative of the subproject areas.
Farm size          Percentage of    Percent of total
(ha)             all farms         cultivated area
Less than 0.2             57                  13
0.2-0.4                 13                  10
0.4-0.6                  9                  12
0.6-1.0                 12                  26
More than 1.0,             9                  39
avg size 1.7 ha
2.05      In the Serang, Madiun and Pemali-Comal areas, about 60% of farmers
are owner operators and 40% sharecroppers. The Pekalen-Sampean area has a
lower proportion of sharecroppers (20%). In most share cropping arrange-
ments, the tenant and landlord equally share total production, inputs and
harvesting cost including hired labor; and the tenant and his family provide
their labor. The landowner pays the land tax.
Agricultural Support Program
2.06      Agricultural support services have been strengthened by several
ongoing Bank-assisted programs, such as the National Food Crops Extension
Project (Loan 1267-IND), the Seeds Project (Credit 246-IND) the Rural
Credit Project (Credit 827-IND), and the Agricultural Research Project (Loan
1179-IND). Other programs proposed for Bank Group Assistance are second
agricultural research, agricultural extension and seeds projects. Domestic
fertilizer production presently meets demand as a result of facilities built
with Bank Group assistance under Credit 193-IND and Loan 1089-IND, while
fertilizer distribution from national to district level is being aided under
Loan 1139-IND, and will be strengthened further and expanded down to
village level under a proposed second fertilizer distribution project.
2.07      The BIMAS/INMAS program provides farmers with subsidized credit,
fertilizer, agrochemicals, high yielding variety (HYV) seed, cost of living
allowances, and extension advice for crop production. The Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) is the source of credit for the BIMAS program; under the INMAS
program, farmers are advised by the extension service, which assists in
arranging for input supplies, but obtain their own credit mostly from the
suppliers. For irrigated rice production, a farmer can obtain up to
Rp 48,000/ha credit (US$77/ha) for seven months at 1%/month interest rate.



- 11 -
Similar credits are available for rainfed rice and secondary crops. Farmer
participation is extensive in the project areas. In the Serang area,
BIMAS/INMAS programs cover 95% of the wet season rice crop. At Madiun, 92%
of wet season rice is covered, while farmers use BIMAS/INMAS to grow 66% of
wet season rice at Pemali-Comal and 80% at Pekalen-Sampean.
2.08      In all project areas the staff of the Directorate General of Food
Crops (DGFC) within the Ministry of Agriculture provide extension services
to farmers. The services in all project areas are working well although
often understaffed, with good coverage of training and visit programs and
demonstration plots. Inputs of seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, and
rodenticides are usually available throughout the project areas from private
traders and the BUUD/KUD cooperatives. HYVs are widely available and are
used extensively on irrigated lands and less widely on good quality rainfed
lands, but farmers prefer local varieties for badly drained or flood prone
lands. There has been a rapid swing to the newer HYVs (IR 36, 38) resistant
to brown plant hopper following severe attacks on varieties available in
1977/78 (IR 32, 34).
Existing Works
2.09      Serang Area.  The flood protection works along the Serang River
system consist of a river levee system constructed primarily to protect
irrigated areas to the west and includes provision for diversion of rainy
season flood water into swampland (Juana Valley) to the east. A second
purpose of the system was to build up the Juana Valley ground level through
deposition of sediment carried by the flood water to make the land suitable
for farming. The diversion was initially accomplished by spilling water
over the right levee but completion of the Wilalung structure in 1918
provided firmer regulation and resulted in the present practice of allowing
flows up to 350 cu m/sec to pass down the Wulan (Lower Serang) River with
all remaining flood water routed into the Juana Valley. When the system was
constructed, Juana Valley was sparsely populated, but the valley ground
level has now risen significantly and farmers have moved in to cultivate the
land. Deliberate annual flooding does not allow full development of farming
in the area.
2.10      The Serang River system and adjacent areas are shown schematically
in Figure 2.1. Most of the levee system is located downstream from the
junction of the Serang River and its major tributary, the Lusi River. In
the vicinity of the Serang-Lusi confluence, the levees are fairly low and
are 3 to 4 km apart but converge as they extend about 20 km downstream to
provide a floodway width of about 1,500 m near the Wilalung structure.
Below the structure, the width of the Wulan River continues to decrease and
in two reaches (about 3 km and 8 km in length) is only 150 m between the
levees. Over the remainder of the floodway, the width is generally between
500-800 m, except in the delta area where there are several narrow branch
channels. The levees are 2 to 4 m higher than adjacent land, are generally
narrow with fairly steep side slopes, and have a grass cover except in a few



MURIA
VOLCANOJO
KEDUNG-SEMAT '
AREA-3,300ha
WELAHAN BUM
WEDUNG ,           h;AREA-4,800 *A
ha\~~~~~)  ~~~~   4                                                                                                         LOWER ~~~~~~~JUANA AREA
3,000 ha
;                                                                                                                                                                            elIxa    ' ''  s' v;9S    t'  . ''"
PELAYARAN AREA TUNang                                                                      G-SER
7,   AREA  11,100ha                             /   \o  UANA   ALLEY                                                                II DONESIA
y                         3, 300S  s  ,                                   IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Pondok intake                                                                Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection Project
SERANG RIVER SYSTEM
,   1/g Wilalung                                                                               Cultivated land
X           11 ,  ~diversion
,c,   //f >/R  structure                                                                 Z     Major rivers
----.Minor rivers
i¾       T      )                                                                             ._ "._- .= | Irrigation  canals
Ihis n-p has been prep-red by the World ank sstaff exclusively for the cor%0iencr                                                                                                                             Weir
ot the reodors ot the teport to ohi,h it is attached Tlle denor-nintons itt-d Ind the
boondonet thewe Ott tttis map do not imply. on the port of the World dook and its~. -....;i .* ..._to
h-I II, thi, -PdI 1-t i"Ply, - th,. Pita 0 tht, Wdd B-k-d it,                  ~Diversion  structure
ffibite., o-y I'dg-r,it on the legal Ototno of any teritory or any -d-rsement- n r
aoctfttonno of toob boundaries                                                                UPPER  SE RANG                  +    r1l ~                                                               ,      Irrigation  pumping  plant
AREA- 7,400 ha                       [H                    i.
HtAILANID                                 fllt'
E \  -C?\THAILAND   tRUNtl i   k 00 0  \.,,,PUlLlPPINES                         ||S 0 N              j 0 s/I                                       A       Irrigation   intake
\ Q P t A             Y                                                                                                                    5  /                                           tr {=  ; .,;, S  g  i;  '.  S  f  -Q?E   .E Proposed  project drains
5 \.,'                                                                      W='SINGAPORt< \, ,, , ;,,, PAPUa ,1 J - 0 " L dn Proposed pro ject levees
z S(/MAMA,   ) KAd/MANTAN   '   fj    '  ,:''  c    ,     S Nf0                                               ii
fh: oi lrnlkpineng  tst           laal           rt-at           A        M                                                                                                                                                                                           m:    50V
N       D       0      N       D     n         I      A idar,i
: PirPr°t '               tmboi               a rAY  j
PyrwotoKltJA VATa                                                                                     Seda di Weir
.. { (:  ,, \ ...... PJeinner'  .  o_
110011T ,Kedungombo Dae site O
.- it   ti-I boitndsris                                            /     / _ __  /,    _  _                                                                                                                      -  o



- 13 -
areas where recent slumping or erosion has occurred. The floodway (fore-
land) areas between the main river channel and the levees have been built up
over the past 80 years by sediment deposition so that they are mostly in the
range of 1 to 2 m above the land outside the levees.
2.11      From the Wilalung structure to the Java Sea, the Wulan River has
a total length of about 46 km. Tributaries include the Gelis and Tunggal
Rivers which join the main stream respectively about 12 and 20 km downstream
from the Wilalung structure. Bridges for the Semarang-Kudus road and
railroad cross the river at Karanganyar, 11 km below the Wilalung structure,
and another road bridge crosses at Mijen about 15 km further downstream.
Four foot bridges span the river between Mijen and the river mouth and
bridges spanning the gate piers at the Wilalung structure also accommodate
foot traffic. To the east of the Wulan River, several rivers drain
southwesterly from the slopes of Muria Volcano through the Welahan-Bum area
and flow into the Bum and Serang Lama (Old Serang) Rivers. Because of
narrow floodways, low levees and constricted channels, flooding occurs
frequently along these rivers.
2.12      Excess rainfall is removed from the project land principally by
natural channels but many of the channels have been improved and artificial
drains have been constructed in some areas. Levees have been constructed
along some of the larger drains. Drains in the Upper Serang and Tuntang-
Serang areas were rehabilitated under Irrigation Project I but the other
drains generally have insufficient capacity for the timely removal of excess
rainfall.
2.13      Flooding caused by drainage deficiencies and operation of the
Serang River; flood control system results in inundation of about 30,000 ha
each year during portions of the wet season. The Pelayaran, Wedung and
Welahan-Bum areas are affected principally by inadequate drainage but the
Juana valley inundation results from a combination of flood control opera-
tion and poor drainage. In addition to the routine annual flooding of the
Pelayaran and Wedung areas due to restricted drainage, portions of those
areas and the Tuntang-Serang and Upper Serang areas are periodically flooded
through breaches in the Serang River levee system. Major floods from
breaching and over-topping of the levees occurred in 1972 and again in 1976,
when about 25,000 ha were inundated, destroying the rice crop on 16,500 ha
and reducing yields on an additional 2,000 ha.
2.14      From the viewpoint of drainage, the Kedung-Semat area is separate
from the remainder of the subproject. About half of the area lies at or
below high tide levels, and has been protected by a coastal levee construc-
ted in the 1930s. Drainage was provided by tidal gates which are no longer
serviceable, and the area is now adversely affected by flooding, poor
drainage and salinity.
2.15      The Sedadi irrigation system begins at the Sedadi Weir on the
Serang River about 10 km upstream from the confluence with the Lusi River
and provides water for the Tuntang-Serang area and portions of the Upper



- 14 -
Serang and Pelayaran areas. The main canal of the Sedadi system parallels
the Serang and Wulan Rivers for a distance of about 40 km to Karanganyar,
immediately adjacent to the left river levee. The Pondak intake located
about one kilometer upstream from the Wilalung structure was constructed to
supply additional water but has not been operated for several years due to
sedimentation problems. About 18,500 ha of land in the Upper Serang and
Tuntang-Serang areas are irrigated during the wet season but only 4,300 ha
receive sufficient water for a dry season rice crop. The Pelayaran area
receives water during the wet season but little during the dry season. A
pumping plant located on the Wulan River at Karanganyar supplies irrigation
water for the Wedung area during the wet season but only very limited
amounts are available in the dry season.
2.16      Numerous small irrigation systems supply water for small areas
of land in the Juana, Welahan-Bum and Kedung-Semat areas. The areas and
present condition of agricultural land in the subproject are indicated in
Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: AGRICULTURAL LAND IN SERANG SUBPROJECT
Generally   Poorly drained
adequate   but infrequently   Flooded during
drainage        flooded          rainy season    Total
---- - - -- - - - -(ha)-- - - - - -- - - - - - -
Upper Serang             -             7,400                            7,400
Tuntang-Serang       11,100              -                   -         11,100
Pelayaran & Wedung       -             9,200              9,200        18,400
Welahan-Bum              -             2,100              2,700         4,800
Juana Valley             -               -               13,300        13,300
Lower Juana              -               -                3,000         3,000
Kedung-Semat             -             1,300              2,000         3,300
Total             11.100           2000               30.200       61,300
2.17      Madiun Area.  About 140,000 ha in the Madiun Valley is supplied
with irrigation water by a complex of 117 irrigation systems that include
about 1,200 canal headworks, 120 km of main canals, 700 km of secondary
canals and 2,500 canal structures. About 90% of the water supplies for the
systems are obtained from streams and the remaining 10% is from springs and
ground water. Some of the systems heading on streams include diversion
weirs across the streams but others have "free intakes" where the stream
channels are stable and additional elevation above the channels bottoms is
not required. Canal structures include turnouts, measuring devices, bridges
and other miscellaneous structures. The canals are mostly unlined and the
structures mostly masonry. Tertiary systems vary in size up to 150 hectares
and are maintained by individuals or groups of farmers.



- 15 
2.18      Many of the systems and structures have fallen into serious dis-
repair, and rehabilitation is now in progress under Bank-assisted Irrigation
Project VIII on 26 of the systems serving 75,000 ha (Stage I). Stage I
includes the larger systems which are generally located in the low central
portion of Madiun Valley. The remaining systems are small and are located
around the periphery of the valley where the slope of the ±Lnd varies from
moderately flat in the low areas to steep in the higher portions of the
adjacent mountain slopes. In the Stage II area, 59% of the land is under
technical systems, 13% under semitechnical systems and 28% under nontech-
nical systems.
2.19      Tertiary Areas.  The Pemali-Comal area is served by eight inter-
connected systems that irrigate some 128,000 ha using water diverted by 41
weirs on 28 rivers. The Pekalen-Sampean area includes 139 small irrigation
systems serving about 229,000 ha.
Works Completed With Previous Bank Group Assistance
2.20      Bank Group assistance has been provided previously for certain
works in all of the subproject areas.
2.21      Serang Subprolect.  Bank Group assistance for irrigation and
drainage improvements in the Serang area began under Irrigation Project I.
The work under that project included rehabilitation of the Sedadi irrigation
system and the rehabilitation of drains in the Upper Serang and Tuntang-
Serang areas. The project was completed in 1976 but some parts of the area
remain subject to flooding and water shortages limit dry season crop produc-
tion. (see Project Completion Report of June 1977 and Project Performance
Audit Report of February 1978.) Bank assistance for preparation of designs
and tender documents for the proposed Serang River drainage and flood pro-
tection was provided under Irrigation Project VII.
2.22      Madiun Subproject.  Bank assistance for the investigation and eval-
uation of groundwater resources in the Madiun area has been provided under
Irrigation Project IV. Irrigation Project VI provided Bank support for
feasibility studies of system rehabilitation, detailed rehabilitation designs
and feasibility studies at four storage sites./l Activities under Stage I of
the Madiun rehabilitation work for 75,000 ha are supported by Bank assistance
under Irrigation Project VIII. Where necessary, canals are being repaired,
desilted and in some cases enlarged, while structures are repaired or recon-
structed depending on their present condition. When practical, semitechnical
and nontechnical systems are being upgraded to technical systems. The
designs for Stage I will be completed in April 1980 and those for Stage II
in December 1980. Implementation of Stage I is progressing slightly behind
schedule but the major construction work is expected to be completed early
in 1981.
/1 Detailed engineering and design for two of these would be performed
under the proposed project.



- 16 -
2.23      Tertiary Subproject.  Feasibility studies of the rehabilitation of
irrigation works in the Pemali-Comal area were assisted under Irrigation
Project I, detailed planning and designs for the rehabilitation were
supported under Irrigation Project II, and rehabilitation work was assisted
under Irrigation Project III. Tertiary development for 21,000 ha in the
area is being assisted under Irrigation Project VII. Construction is 80% on
schedule and is expected to be completed in early 1980. Bank Group
assistance on the Pekalen-Sampean area for feasibility studies for
rehabilitation was provided under Irrigation Project I; rehabilitation of
main irrigation works under Irrigation Project IV; and tertiary development
for 30,000 ha under Irrigation VII. Construction of the tertiary systems is
100% on schedule, and should be completed also in early 1980.
Project Formulation
2.24      The components of the project would provide additional infra-
structure for drainage and flood protection, would expand the rehabilitation
of irrigation systems already under way in Madiun, and would construct
tertiary systems in order to achieve more efficient management and
utilization of available water supplies and other agricultural inputs. The
works are designed to further increase crop production.
2.25      Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection Subproject.  With
consultant assistance, the Government formulated development plans for the
Serang River system and other neighboring river basins during the 1971-75
period and made more detailed studies of the Serang area between 1977 and
1979. The studies for the Serang area considered the need for better flood
protection and drainage of existing irrigated and rainfed farm land, which
would also be necessary prior to any expansion of irrigation. The studies
propose that in the longer term additional dry season water would be
provided though construction of a multipurpose dam on the Upper Serang River
(the Kedungombo Dam).
2.26      The Government wishes to proceed with the drainage and flood
protection works and has deferred for the present construction of the
Kedungombo Dam because of its high cost and the need to resettle people from
the reservoir area. The dam would have only a minor effect on peak floods
in the project area mostly because of the large amount of downstream inflow
from the Lusi River. Additional downstream drainage and flood protection
measures are warranted with or without construction of the dam.
2.27      The proposed drainage and flood protection system was selected by
the government following study of seven alternatives by consultants. The
selected system would avoid deliberate flooding of the Juana River by
increasing the capability of the Serang/Wulan River system to cope with
flood flows. The conveyance capacity of the Wulan River would be increased
to 1,000 cu m/sec from the Wilalung structure to the mouth of the Gelis
River and 760 cu m/sec from the Gelis River to the Java Sea. Occasionally
water would be spilled at the Gelis River mouth into the Welahan area for
conveyance to the sea through a separate low level drain. During occasional
high flow periods some temporary ponding would occur in the Welahan area,
with an estimated 1,500 ha inundated in the rare event of a 100-year
frequency flood.



- 17 -
2.28      Madiun Irrigation System Rehabilitation Stage II.  As a continuation
of its overall irrigation rehabilitation program and as a follow up to Madiun
Rehabilitation Stage I, the Government wishes to complete rehabilitation of
the remaining Madiun systems using the presently established organization ane
the desig. and construction supervision procedures of the first stage project
This will allow efficient utilization of resources and orderly continuation of
the program.
2.29      Tertiary Systems Development.  Tertiary systems development is an
ongoing GOI program which has received renewed emphasis in the Government's
Third Five-Year Development Plan during which period 2 million ha are to be
constructed. The proposed construction would be implemented using the same
design systems, construction supervision and organization of the ongoing
programs, and would serve an additional 50,000 ha at Pemali-Comal and 70,000
ha at Pekalen-Stmpean.  Table 2.2 summarizes the present situation of
tertiary development in the two areas. Additional housing would be
constructed for operation and maintenance staff in the two tertiary areas,
,and additionally in Ciujung, Cisedane, Rentang, Cirebon, Sedeku, Madiun and
Sadang.
Table 2.2: TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT IN PEMALI-COMAL AND PEKALEN-SAMPEAN
Future                                   Remaining
Total      double    Tertiaries         To be        for future
service    cropped/a  completed       constructed      construc-
area    rice area   already /b   under project        tion/c
------------------------    '000   ha    -------------------------
Pemali-Comal         128         113          33              50             30
Pekalen-Sampean      229         182          37              70             75
/a Includes about 10% increase over existing double cropped area.
/b Completed or undergoing construction both independently by GOI and with
Bank Group assistance.
/c Engineering and design are included in this project.



- 18 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The proposed works would consist of the construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding and improve drainage of some 61,000 ha of farm land; the rehabilita-
tion of irrigation systems serving about 65,000 ha in the Madiun Valley and
engineering design for improving four small dams and for constructing two
medium dams; the construction of tertiary irrigation canals and structures
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalan-Sampean irrigation
systems; engineering design for an additional 105,000 ha tertiary systems
in Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean; engineering design for engineering
design for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the 20,000 ha Senkareng-
Pemali Atas irrigation area; and construction of about 1,000 additional
O&M houses in nine major irrigation areas.
Project Works
3.02      Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection.  Works would consist of:
(a)  Reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 242 km of drains with
associated bridges, siphons and water control structures in the
Upper Serang and Pelayaran-Wedung areas, including channel
dredging and levee construction;
(b)  Reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 63 km of drains in the
Juana valley and construction of about 12 km of levees on the
north side of the main Juana drain;
(c) Construction cf about 9 km of coastal levees in the Kedung-Semat
area, with associated road and gate structures and reconstruction
or rehabilitation of about 17 km of drains;
(d) Raising and strengthening flood protection levees on about 10 km
of the Serang River from Godang to the Wilalung structure;
(e) Raising and strengthening levees along about 42 km of the Wulan
River from the Wilalung structure to the Java Sea, and channel
excavation of about 28 km;
(f) Construction of a spillway on the right bank of the Wulan River
near Karanganyar and a low level drain from the spillway to the
Java sea of about 33 km;
(g) Construction of a Serang Lama-Bum river high level drain of about
24 km to convey discharges of south flowing tributaries of the
Serang River system to the Java sea;



- 19 -
(h)  channelization and levee construction (about 18 km) along the
lower reaches of six streams that would be intercepted by the
Serang Lama-Bum drain;
(i)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment for constru.tion supervision;
(j) Training of government staff; and
(k) Consultant services for construction supervision; for preparing an
O&M plan; and for preparing a food prediction and warning system.
3.03      Madiun Irrigation System Rehabilitation Stage II.  Works would
consist of:
(a) Rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 707 diversion weirs and
other types of headwork structures;
(b) Rehabilitation of about 350 km of primary and secondary canals and
about 1,048 structures, including turnouts, bridges, and other
structures;
(c) Procurement of vehicles for construction supervision and motor-
cycles and equipment for O&M; and
(d) Consultant services for construction supervision, rehabilitation
designs for four existing small dams and construction designs for
new itedium size dams at Pondok and Sangiran.
3.04      Tertiary Systems Development.  Works would comprise:
(a) construction of a tertiary network on about 120,000 ha at Pemali-
Comal and Pekalen-Sampean comprising about 5.5 m/ha of tertiary
irrigation canals, about 11 m/ha of subtertiary canals, about
50 m/ha of quaternary canals, about 40 m/ha of tertiary and
quaternary drains, and about 0.1 stuctures/ha;
(b) consultant services for engineering designs for about 105,000 ha
additional tertiary systems in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-
Sampean irrigation areas, and for engineering designs for the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the Senkareng-Pemali Atas
irrigation area adjacent to the Pemali-Comal system; and
(c) construction of about 1,000 houses for O&M staff in the Pemali-
Comal, Pekalen-Sampean, Ciujung, Cisedane, Rentang, Cisebon,
Sedeku, Madiun and Sadang irrigation systems.
Basis for Design of Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection
3.05      Drainage.  Most of the drainage facilities are designed to remove
within 72 hours excess water resulting from the maximum rainfall expected to



- 20 -
occur at a frequency of five years.  Exceptions are the Juana Valley drains
that are designed to a 3-year frequency, justified from analyses of estimated
crop damages and drainage costs as related to the frequency of flooding.
Designs of the drainage systems are based on providing primary and secondary
drains for all catchment areas that include more than 400 hectares of
agricultural land. Other drainage would be the responsibility of individuals
or groups of land owners. Total three-day depths for five-year frequency
rainfall for various segments of the project area were obtained from a
isohyetal map developed from historical data and this information was
supplemented by estimated rainfall depths expected to occur in two following
three-day periods. Three-day five-year frequency rainfall over the project
area is in the 175 mm - 300 mm range with 30 to 45 mm occurring in the
following six days. Required capacities and dimensions for drains were
established for different sizes, slopes and shapes of areas from analyses of
the rainfall data and other factors including estimated evapotranspiration,
percolation, drain storage, land slopes, and crop damage/inundation
depth/duration relationships. Drain design capacities are generally in the
range between 4.9 liters/second/ha and 6.5 liters/second/ha for the
Glapan-Sedadi, Welahan-Bum and Kedung-Semat areas and 3.3 to 5.2
liters/second/ha in the Juana valley.
3.06      Flood Protection.  The system would be capable of controlling
100-year frequency floods. Consultants reviewed incremental costs for
providing protection against 100-year frequency floods as compared to a
20-year frequency and concluded that the 100-year level of protection was
the most cost effective. The flood stage is rather insensitive to the
return period of the flood (i.e.  water levels of a 100-year flood are
little different to those of a 20-year event).
Water Supply, Demand and Quality for Irrigation Components
3.07      Madiun.  The subproject area, which has been irrigated for several
generations, is supplied primarily from the unregulated flows of the Madiun
river and its tributaries, tributaries of the Solo river, local springs, and
small amounts of groundwater. The systems make extensive use of return
flows. Because of the large number of independent systems and catchments,
no analysis has been attempted of water supply and demand for individual
systems. Historically, water supplies are adequate for 65,000 ha of land
in the wet season, but only for about 23,000 ha in the dry season. Some
58,000 ha of rice and 7,000 ha of sugarcane are irrigated in the wet season.
Rehabilitation would lower losses in the system, and permit irrigation of a
slightly larger area in the dry season (25,000 ha). Losses would be reduced
at diversion points, in canals, and from spillage, while canals would have
greater conveyance capacity and better water control. These measures would
permit more timely and equitable water distribution. Sustained usage and
testing indicate that water quality is suitable for irrigation. Sediment
loads are high, and the increased desilting efficiency provided by project
works would reduce the problems of sediment deposition in conveyance and
distribution systems.



K 21 -
3.08      Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean.  For many years, water supplies
have been adequate for 100% cropping intensity of the two schemes in the wet
season, and for about 70% of the command areas in the dry season. The main
impact is expected to be on crop yields with minor area effects. Better
distribut---n to individual fields would permit more efficient application,
better drainage, and coordinated cultivation within tertiary blocks leading
to lower pest and disease incidence. The main systems are long established,
and water supplies have been shown to be of good quality for irrigation.
Status of Engineering
3.09      Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection.  All detailed designs,
contract drawings, and tender documents will be completed in early 1980.
3.10      Madiur Irrigation System Rehabilitation Stage II.  Detailed design
for works in the area being rehabilitated under the Stage I project are
scheduled to be completed by April 1980. The small size and type of works
to be undertaken are appropriate for a continuing design/construction
program, and consultants are starting to prepare designs for Stage II now
that Stage I designs are nearly complete.
3.11      Tertiary Systems.  Detailed designs for the tertiary blocks
constructed under Irrigation Project VII were prepared by local consultants
to satisfactory standards. The same consultants have prepared 70% of the
designs for the construction now proposed at Pemali-Comal and 90% of those at
Pekalen-Sampean. The remaining detailed design for the proposed construction
would be available in early 1980.
Implementation Schedules
3.12      The project would be implemented over a period of four and a half
years from June 1980 to December 1984, with the first main contracts expected
to be awarded in mid-1980. Serang drainage and flood protection works
construction would start in June 1980 and be completed by December 1984. The
Stage II rehabilitation work at Madiun would begin in June 1980 and is
scheduled for completion by July 1983. Tertiary systems would be construc-
ted over a four-year period from June 1980. Implementation schedules for
the three subprojects are shown in Figure 3.1.
Cost Estimates
3.13      The total project cost is estimated at US$186.7 million, of which
US$66.7 million is the foreign exchange component. The above costs include
taxes of 5% on civil works contracts. Civil works quantities for the
Serang subproject were estimated from completed final design drawings (70%)
and from preliminary design drawings (30%); and for the Tertiary subproject
from ongoing construction of tertiary systems in Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean under Bank Group assisted projects. Civil works costs for
the Serang and Tertiary subprojects were estimated by applying to the
estimated quantities the the prevailing unit costs for similar works in the



- 22 -
specific areas (projected to beginning-1980 prices). For the Madiun
subproject, civil works costs were estimated by comparison with recent
contract costs for rehabilitation of similar canals and structures in the
Stage I area. Costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts
for similar services in Indonesia. The direct costs of foreign consultants
(salaries, overseas allowance, home office overhead and fee) amount to about
US$7,100/man-month. Reimbursible expenses (travel, housing, field office
overhead, reproduction and printing, and other expenses average about
US$3,400/man-month, for a total cost of about US$10,500/man-month. Total
costs of local consultants amount to US$1,500/ man-month (Annex 1, Table 7)
for engineers and US$500/man-month for technicians and draftsmen. The cost
estimates include physical contingencies of 20% for civil works, and 10% for
other cost items. The cost estimates also include an allowance for expected
price contingencies during project execution (29% of base cost plus physical
contingencies) based on the following annual inflation rates for civil
works, equipment and services projected from recent trends noted in
contracts for irrigation projects in Indonesia:
1980   1981   1982-84
Local component          15      15        10
Foreign component         9       8         7
3.14      Details of project costs are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2,
and are summarized below:
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total       %
--- Rp million           ---US$ million----    F.E.
Serang river drainage
and flood protection  22,500  16,870   39,120   35.6   27.0   62.6    43
Madiun rehabilitation
Stage II               9,000   9,130   18,130   14.4   14.6   29.0    50
Tertiary systems        15,560   3,130   18,690   24.9    5.0   29.9    17
Base cost               46,810  29,130   75,940   74.9   46.6  121.5    38
Physical contingencies  8,690   5,500   14,190   13.9    8.8   22.7    38
Price contingencies    18,500   7,060   25,560   31.2   11.3   42.5    27
Total Project Cost   75,000  41.690  116,690  120.0   66.7  186.7    36



- 23 -
Financing
3.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$116 million would finance the
project's foreign exchange cost excepting the foreign exchange cost of
vehicles provided by GOI and US$49.7 million of local costs. It would cover
about 65% of total project costs excluding vehicles provided by GOI under
reserve procurement (US$0.4 million) and taxes on civil works contracts
(US$7.6 million), and 41% of local costs. The Government would provide the
remaining Rp 44,200 million (US$70.7 million) out of annual budget
appropriations.



- 24 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Item                             Total cost            Government            Bank
---------------(US$ million)-----------------
Serang Subproject
Civil works                       84.8                  30.3               54.5
Land acquisition                   3.7                   3.7                -
Consulting services                2.0                   -                  2.0
Equipment                          0.2                   -                  0.2
Vehicles                           0.1                   0.1                -
Training                           0.3                   -                  0.3
Administration                     4.3                   4.3
Civil works taxes                  4.2                   4.2
Subtotal                     99.6                 42.6                57.0
Madiun Subproject
Civil works                       34.5                   3.7               30.8
Consulting services                3.7                   -                  3.7
Equipment                          0.2                   -                  0.2
Vehicles                           0.2                   0.2
Administration                      1.7                  1.7
Civil works taxes                  1.7                   1.7
Subtotal                     42.0                   7.3               34.7
Tertiary Subproject
Civil works                       33.5                  17.1               16.4
Consulting services                7.2                   -                  7.2
Equipment                          0.2                   -                  0.2
Vehicles                           0.1                   0.1                -
Mapping                             0.5                  _                  0.5
Administration                      1.9                  1.9                -
Civil works taxes                  1.7                   1.7                -
Subtotal                     45.1                 20.8                24.3
Total                       186.7                  70.7              116.0



- 25 -
Procurement
3.16      Civil works.  For the Serang subproject, river mouth dredging,
river channel excavation and levee construction, and major drainage
rehabilitation and construction would be packaged into 6 contracts
(US$38.4 million)/l which would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The
remaining 25 civil works contracts (US$14.4 million) would be for drainage
works which are small, would be carried out almost entirely by hand labor,
and are scattered over many job sites. These works would be carried out
following local competitive bidding. The M4adiun (US$23.4 million) and
tertiary works (US$21.8 million) are small, scattered, and would be
performed almost entirely by hand labor. Contracts would be let by systems
or by groups of systems on the basis of local competitive bidding. For
Madiun civil works a total of up to US$5 million of works would have a
minimum contract size of US$100,000, the others would be grouped into a
number of suitable contracts of minimum size US$500,000. No minimum
contract sizes would be required for tertiary works, or for works in the
Serang awarded by local competitive bidding.
3.17      Vehicles and equipment.  Excepting four vehicles required for
start up operations which would be purchased locally by consultants under
the terms of their contracts, all vehicles and motorcycles (US$0.4 million)
would be procured locally following Government procedures because the
Government does not permit importation. Equipment (survey, office and
laboratory equipment - total value US$0.4 million) would be in small
contract packages required for rapid start up and purchased by the different
subproject offices responsible. No contract package is expected to be
greater than US$85,000. Accordingly the equipment would be procured through
normal GOI procurement procedures involving local competitive bidding or at
least three price quotations for small contracts less than Rp 10 million
(US$16,000).
3.18      During negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Govern-
ment on the use and content of standard contract documents for civil works
and equipment to be procured by international competitive bidding. The
understanding on the use and content of standard contract documents for works
to be awarded under locally advertised competitive bidding is expected to be
reached by September 1, 1980. Because of this, and PROSIDAs extensive experi-
ence, prior Bank review of bidding documents for individual contracts may be
reduced and cost limits for contracts requiring prior review before tendering
and award would be higher than in earlier projects. These limits would be
US$1.5 million and above for civil works and US$0.2 million and above for
equipment. The use of standard contract documents should accelerate the
preparation of tenders and reduce the Bank's supervision to review of special
conditions attached to individual tender invitations.
/1 Costs in this section are base costs not including physical contingen-
cies or expected price increases.



- 26 -
Disbursements
3419      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 95% of the exfactory cost of
locally manufactured equipment, and 65% for locally procured imported
equipment. Excepting start-up vehicles for consultant services, purchase of
vehicles would be financed totally by GOI. Disbursements for civil works
would be at the rate of 100% of total expenditures for six major ICB
contracts (para. 3.16) in the Serang subproject (equivalent to 70% of total
civil works expenditures in Serang). Funds for remaining civil works in the
Serang subproject would be provided fully by Government. For the Madiun
subproject, disbursements for civil works would be at the rate of 100% of
total expenditures. For tertiary systems disbursements would be applied
only to structures, at the rate of 100% of costs (equivalent to 48% of total
civil works expenditures in tertiary development). Disbursements for
consulting services (including four start-up vehicles) would be at the rate
of 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for the Madiun subproject, and
the tertiary subproject would be on the basis of certified quarterly
statements of expenditure (Annex 5). The estimated schedule of expenditures
for the project, disbursement schedule, and allocation of loan proceeds are
presented in Annex 1.
Accounts and Audits
3.20      In previous Bank Group supported projects PROSIDA has complied with
the need to keep separate audited project accounts, although frequently late
in submitting such reports. For Irrigation Project XIV, assurances have
been obtained from the Government that PROSIDA would maintain separate
accounts for each subproject; engage auditors acceptable to the Bank to
audit these accounts and statements of expenditures submitted in support of
Loan withdrawal applications; and submit to the Bank, within six months of
the close of each fiscal year, audited statements, together with the
auditor's comments.
Environmental Effects
3.21      All project areas have been under intensive cultivation for many
years, and the basic land use patterns would change little following
implementation of the project. In the Serang area frequent flooding of
living areas, roads and agricultural land would be greatly reduced, and
health problems would be reduced. The flora and fauna temporarily affected
by construction activities would quickly revert to their present condition.
Environmental changes at the mouths of the Juana and Wulan Rivers would be
small since minimum flows would be undisturbed.



- 27 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      All project components would be implemented by PROSIDA, an executive
body within the DGWRD, which has completed rehabilitation works under the
first three Bank Group irrigation projects and is executing works under six
other Bank Group-assisted projects. Since its establishment in 1969,
PROSIDA has demonstrated a steadily increasing capacity to execute irriga-
tion, drainage, and flood protection projects, and has maintained its
reputation of being one of the most efficient construction agencies in the
Ministry of Public Works. PROSIDA would have no difficulty in carrying out
the project with its present staff supported by consulting services.
4.02      Day-to-day supervision of the work in the Serang area would be
carried out through PROSIDA's subproject office and staff in Semarang, which
is presently implementing the rehabilitation of the SEDEKU project assisted
by Irrigation Project IX. The staff in Semarang would be strengthened by
assigning experienced personnel from recently completed Bank Group-assisted
projects and projects nearing completion. The senior official of the
Provincial Irrigation Service would be the Subproject Manager and would
coordinate the various activities in the project area and later be
responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M). Working under him would be
a Deputy Subproject Manager and assistants for supervision of construction
and administration. This type of field organization is working successfully
under ongoing projects. The DGWRD organization is shown in Figure 4.1, the
PROSIDA management organization in Figure 4.2; and the PROSIDA field
organization in Figure 4.3.
4.03      The day-to-day supervision of the Stage II work and new engineer-
ing design for dams in the Madiun subproject would be carried out by the
PROSIDA field office in Madiun, which is presently implementing the Stage I
work assisted under Irrigation Project VIII. No changes in organization or
increases in staff from the present are foreseen since the Stage II work
will be phased in as Stage I work is completed. The field organization of
the PROSIDA Madiun office is similar to that of the Semarang office.
4.04      Implementation of tertiary systems construction and additional
tertiary systems engineering and design in the Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean areas would be supervised by PROSIDA offices which were
established in each area for construction under previous Bank Group-assisted
projects. PROSIDA has offices also in the other seven irrigation systems
for supervising O&M housing construction.
Consultants and Training
4.05      Local and expatriate consultants would be employed to assist
PROSIDA in finalizing tender documents, bid evaluation, and construction
supervision of the Serang and the Madiun subprojects. Consultant assistance



- 28 -
would also be provided for dam designs in the Madiun area. About 422
man months foreign engineers and 2,402 man months local engineers will be
employed. Numbers of man-months and estimated costs for these services are
presented in Table 4.1 below. For the Serang subproject, DGWRD expects to
employ the co..ultants presently engaged for detailed engineering design,
and for the Madiun subproject, the consultants employed for feasibility
studies, detailed engineering design and construction of the Stage I area
(para. 1.02). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by July 1,
1980, GOI would appoint consultants whose qualifications, experience and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Table 4.1: CONSULTING SERVICES
Man-months               Estimated cost
Subproject           Foreign   Local/a   Foreign       Local    Total
-- (US$'000) ------
Serang construction
supervision                  120        60       852.0      498.0   1,350.0
Madiun construction
supervision                   80       180       568.0      542.0   1,110.0
Dam design                      96      396        681.6   1,056.9   1,738.5
(273)
Tertiary
Tertiary design                -    1,070          -      2,505.0   2,505.0
(1,800)
Rehabilitation design        126       696       894.6   1,772.4   2,664.0
(600)
Total                    422    2,402      2,996.2   6,374.3   9.370.5
(2,673)
/a Engineers (in brackets technicians and draftsmen).
4.06      The project would provide overseas training for selected PROSIDA
and Serang subproject management, technical and operating personnel. The
training would include: six months of formal courses covering land drainage
requirements and procedures, embankment and channel design, river
hydraulics, operation and maintenance procedures, and management techniques
for five senior Govrnment offficials; and three months of practical
operation and maintenance training in neighboring countries for ten middle
level government employees.



- 29 -
Agricultural Support Services
4.07      Agricultural support services in all project areas are in general
providing good coverage and farmers are availing themselves of the assis-
tance available (paras. 2.06-2.08). The major agricultural changes to be
induced by project actions would be increased yields from more timely
planting; less crop damage from flooding; better water supplies; and a shift
from local varieties to HYVs in areas previously poorly drained, seasonally
flooded, or threatened by floods. Increased quantities of HYV seed and
fertilizers would be provided by present production facilities in Java and by
distribution networks in the subproject areas.
Operation and Maintenance
4.08      PROSIDA would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
all project works during the construction period. Except for the tertiary
works, PROSIDA would continue to operate and maintain the works of
individual sections for one year following completion to ensure that all
defects are corrected and needed repairs are made before they are formally
turned over to the Provincial Public Works Departments of Central Java and
East Java, which would thereafter assume responsibility for operating and
maintaining them.
4.09      Although the O&M funding of main and secondary irrigation systems
and of drainage and flood protection works has always been a provincial
responsibility, the provinces have been unable to meet the full funding
requirements out of their own revenues. The provincial O&M budget is suf-
ficient only to meet salaries of senior irrigation officials down to
irrigation foreman (pengamat) level. The amount budgeted by the provinces
is about Rp 1,400/ha, with the balance coming in the form of subsidies from
the Central Government. Because of these subsidies, there has been consider-
able improvement in O&M services in the completed and ongoing Bank-assisted
irrigation projects. However, there is further need for trained staff, as
well as an increase in O&M budgetary allocations for the main and secondary
systems. O&M funds allocated to the various subprojects in FY80/81 are
consistent with standing agreements between the Government and the Bank.
For FY80/81, the Government increased the O&M allocation for rehabilitated
systems to Rp 5,820/ha (Annex 4).
4.10      Shortly after construction of the tertiary works, responsibility
for O&M of the tertiary systems would shift to the water-user associations
established within the systems. PROSIDA would, however, closely supervise
the operation of these systems for one year to ensure that all defects are
corrected and needed repairs are made before they are formally turned over
to the water-user associations. To properly operate and maintain the
systems, each water-user association would appoint a full-time water master
(ulu-ulu) with one or two assistant water masters, who would allocate the
water to the various users on a day-to-day basis and carry out needed
maintenance and repairs. The water-user associations would establish and
collect contributions from all beneficiaries to defray the salaries of



- 30 -
water masters, as well as the cost of materials needed for maintenance and
repairs. These practices are presently in effect for completed tertiaries
and are generally satisfactory. Since the standard of O&M in these systems
would be dependent upon the existence of properly functioning water-user
associations, assurances have been obtained at negotiations tha: the
Government would take the necessary steps to ensure that: (a) before the
start of construction of any tertiary network a water-user association would
be established to assist in obtaining right-of-way for construction, and to
operate and maintain it after completion; and (b) promptly when a tertiary
network is completed each association would establish and collect from its
members contributions adequate to cover sound operation and maintenance of
the system.
4.11      Assurances have been obtained also from the Government that (a)
all canals, drains, structures, roads, equipment and oTker facilities of the
irrigation and flood protection systems rehabilitated or constructed with
the financial assistance of the Bank would be adequately operated and main-
tained, in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial
and public utility policies, and practices and such action would be taken as
reasonably required to ensure the economic use of the water made available
by such systems for agricultural development and operations; (b) at all
times adequate staff are employed and funds allocated and are made available,
as and when required, for the proper operation and maintenance of all irriga-
tion, flood protection and road systems constructed under Bank Group-assisted
Irrigation Projects; (c) by August 15 in each fiscal year or such other date
as the Bank may agree, GOI would make available to the organizations or
departments charged with maintenance of any such system, an amount of liquid
funds equal to not less than one half budgeted for the O&M of such systems
in each fiscal year, and make the balance available in equal quarterly
installments until all budgeted amounts have been made available; (d) the
number of qualified O&M staff would be progressively increased until
adequate levels agreed with the Bank have been attained; (e) by December 31
of each year GOI would inform the Bank of the proposed cost per hectare for
O&M budgets and staff requirements for all systems assisted by the Bank
Group by June 1 of the following year of the approved budgets, and by
October 1 of each following year the staff provisions; and (f) by
December 31, 1981, the Government would submit to the Bank for its review,
proposals for staffing and funding O&M of drainage, river training and flood
control works constructed tinder the Serang subproject, together with a
maintenance program for these works and a flood warning system; and, by
April 1, 1983, it would begin to implement these proposals and keep the Bank
informed on the progress of their implementation.
Monitoring
4.12      Local authorities would continue to keep records of flood occurr-
ences and damages, and provincial agricultural staff would continue recording
agricultural yields and production. A program to monitor agricultural and
other benefits accruing from earlier Bank-assisted irrigation and drainage



- 31 -
projects was implemented under Irrigation Project VI but is inadequate to
cover new projects. Monitoring of project progress and use of loan funds is
the responsibility of the Foreign Aid Administration office of DGWRD which
receives regular reports on physical and financial progress from the executing
agencies such as PROSIDA. Monitoring the impact of the project is the
responsibility of the Evaluation Section, Directorate of Planning and
Programming. This section is currently responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the USAID supported small-scale irrigation systems (SEDERRANA)
project. It cooperates with other sources of related data such as the Central
Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Agriculture. The Evaluation
Section will be strengthened under proposed Irrigation Project XV.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would increase agriculture production on 0.25 million
hectares of land in Java by providing drainage and flood protection on some
61,000 ha of land in the Serang area; by improving water control and distribu-
tion on some 65,000 ha of irrigated land in the Madiun area; and by improving
water control, distribution and utilization through the introduction of
tertiary systems serving some 120,000 ha of irrigated land in Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean. Rice and secondary food crops would benefit from better
drainage, water supplies, and flood protection. Details of cropping patterns,
yields and production, as well as expected changes as a result of the project
are discussed below and are summarized in Table 5.1 and Figure 5.1.
Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection
5.02      The entire area (61,300 ha) grows rice in the wet season.  Of this
about 18,500 ha is irrigated, the remainder rainfed or with very poor irri-
gation. About 30,200 ha of rainfed rice is planted late after seasonally
flooded land drains towards the end of the wet season (see Table 2.1).  In
the dry season, rice is not planted except under irrigation, for which water
is available for only 4,300 ha.  Dry season crops are maize, soybeans, and on
heavy clay soils sorghum.  In areas not seasonally flooded rice yields average
3.4 tons/ha in properly drained irrigated areas, and 3.0 tons/ha where drain-
age has not been improved; 1.8 tons/ha under rainfed cropping; and 3.8 tons/ha
under dry season irrigation. Maize yields average 1.0 tons/ha; soybean yields
0.8 tons/ha; and sorghum yields 1.7 tons/ha. Present cropping intensities
average 156%. In the areas presently seasonally flooded, rice yields average
1.6 tons/ha. Because the rice is planted late, it suffers from water short-
age, and because the length of flooding is sometimes unpredictable, farmers
use less inputs than on well irrigated and drained land. Fewer farmers are
able to plant secondary crops, and when they do, yields are lower than in the
non-flooded area. Cropping intensities are about 138%, and yields of maize are
0.8 tons/ha; sorghum 1.7 tons/ha' and soybeans 0.6 tons/ha.



- 32 -
Table 5.1:  CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Future              Future
Present         without project        with project
Pro-                 Pro-                 Pro-
Area Yield duction Area Yield duction Area Yield duction
(ha) (t/ha) (tons) (ha) (t/ha) (tons) (ha) (t/ha) (tona)
--------------------------------  Serang River  --------------------------------
Nonflooded Area (29,850 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated rice
well drained  11,100  3.4  37,740  11,100  3.6  39,960  11,100  3.8  42,180
Irrigated rice
badly drained  7,400  3.0  22,200   7,400  3.0  22,200   7,400  3.8  28,120
Mostly rainfed
rice          12,600  1.8  22,680  12,600  1.9  23,940  12,600  2.3  28,980
Dry Season
Irrigated rice   4,300  3.8  16,340   4,300  4.0  17,200   4,300  4.0  17,200
Maize            3,500  1.0   3,500   3,500  1.1   3,850   4,000  1.3   5.200
Sorghum          8,100  1.7  13,770   8,100  1.8  14,580  11,700  2.0  23,400
Soybeans         1,000  0.8      800   1,000  0.9      900   1,300  1.2   1,560
Cropping intensity   156%                  156%                  171%
Flooded Area (30,150 ha)
Wet Season
Rainfed rice    30,200  1.6  48,320  30,200  1.6  48,320  30,200  2.3  69,460
Dry Season
Maize            6,700  0.8   5,360   6,700  0.8   5,360   6,900  1.3   8,970
Sorghum          4,500  1.7   7,650   4,500  1.7   7,650  10,400  2.0  20,800
Soybeans           500  0.6      300     500  0.6      300   3,900  1.2   4,680
Cropping intensity   138%                  138%                  170%
----------------------------------   Madiun  -----------------------------------
Wet Season
Irrigated rice    58,000  3.2 185,600  58,000  3.0 174,000  58,000  3.4 197,200
Dry Season
Irrigated rice    23,000  2.8  64,400  20,000  2.6  50,000  52,000  3.0  75,000
Soybeans I        23,000  0.6  13,800  23,000  0.5  11,500  24,000  0.8  19,200
Soybeans II       29,000  0.4  11,600  29,000  0.4  11,600  29,000  0.6  17,400
Total       133.000               130.000               136,000
Cropping intensity    229%                  224%                  234%
-------------------------------  Tertiary Areas  -------------------------------
Pemali-Comal
Wet Season
Irrigated rice    50,000  3.2 150,000  50,000  3.2 150,000  50,000  3.6 190,000
Dry Season
Irrigated rice    32,500  3.2 104,000  32,500  3.2 104,000  32,500  3.4 110,500
Maize              12,500  1.2  15,000  12,500  1.2  15,000  12,500  1.5  18,750
Soybeans          10,000  0.7   7,000  10,000  0.7   7,000  10,000  1.0  10,000
Total       105.000               105.000               105,000
Cropping intensity    210%                  210%                  210%
Pekalan-Sanean
Wet Season
Irrigated rice    70,000  3.6 252,000  70,000  3.6 252.000  70.000  b.0 294.000
Dry Season
Irrigated rice    49,000  3.6 186,200  49,000  3.6 176,400  49,000  3.8 186,200
Maize              24,500  1.5  36,750  24,500  1.5  36,750  24,500  1.8  44,100
Soybeans          10,500  0.7   7,350  10,500  0.7   7,350  10,500  1.0  10,500
Total       154.000               154,000               154,000
Cropping intensity    220%                  220%                  220%



33 -
5.03      The main impact of project works would be to eliminate seasonal
inundation caused by poor drainage and flood protection, and to permit the
rainfed rice crop to be planted at the start of the main wet season, with more
secondary crops grown in the dry season. On land not presently subject to
annual flooding, but still prone to periodic flooding from main rivers,
farmers are expected to increasingly use HYV on both irrigated and rainfed
land because of better water control and crop security. Irrigated rice
yields are expected to increase to about 3.8 tons/ha in the wet season and
about 4.0 tons/ha in the dry season. Rainfed rice yields are projected to
increase to about 2.3 tons/ha. On land previously flooded each year, more
secondary crops would be planted in the dry season; planting would be earlier
and would benefit more from rainfall and residual soil moisture. Maize
yields would increase to about 1.3 tons/ha; soybeans to about 1.2 tons/ha;
and sorghum to about 2.0 tons/ha. Future cropping intensities would average
170%. Future average yields and cropping intensities have been projected on
the basis of recent performance on properly drained and irrigated land in
Java. The projected levels would be obtained 4 years after the completion of
drainage and flood protection works, when rice production would be about
186,000 tons compared to 148,000 tons at present.
Madiun Irrigation Rehabilitation Stage II
5.04      Project works would benefit about 58,000 ha of irrigated rice.
By raising the water levels at the offtakes in some supply rivers and by
rehabilitating headworks and free intakes, the dry season irrigated rice
area would increase from the present 23,000 ha to 25,000 ha. In the absence
of repair/rehabilitation works, yields of rice would steadily decline as
water intake and distribution deteriorates. Present irrigated rice
yields averaging 3.2 tons/ha in the wet season and 2.8 tons/ ha in the dry
season would decline over the project period to 3.0 tons/ha and 2.6 tons/ha
respectively. As a result of better water control and distribution rice
yields are projected to increase to 3.4 tons/ha (wet season) and to 3.0
tons/ha (dry season); and soybean yields from 0.6 tons/ha in the dry season
and 0.4 tons/ha for the early wet season crop to 0.8 tons/ha and 0.6 tons/ha
respectively. Cropping intensity would increase marginally from a present
229% to 234% at full development. These yields and intensities would be
attained four years after the completion of rehabilitation of each system.
The major agricultural change would be in crop yields; no increases in wet
season irrigated area and only small increases in dry season irrigated area
are projected. Under Irrigation Projects I-III assisted by the Bank Group,
considerable irrigated area increases were realized, but these large systems
had few sources of water and the breakdown of a small number of structures or
main canals had serious effects on the irrigated area (see PCR's for these
projects). In the case of Madiun the individual systems are small with many
distinct water sources, and the main impact of rehabilitation would be to
decrease losses in the systems which use the same water several times.
Yield projections are based on similar systems in good repair in Central and
East Java; rehabilitation under the Stage I Madiun project is too recent to
show discernable production increases.



- 34 -
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean Tertiary Irrigation Systems
5.05      The tertiary areas are in well established irrigation systems and
overall water supplies are adequate. The major impact of project works would
be on crop yields which are expected to increase as a result of better and
more timely water control and distribution, and because farmers would be able
to synchronize planting in water management blocks thus leading to lower pest
and disease damage. Area increases from better water distribution have been
conservatively ignored in the analysis. Yields of irrigated rice at
Pemali-Comal of 3.2 tons/ha are expected to rise to 3.6 tons/ha (wet season)
and 3.4 tons/ha (dry season). Yields of secondary crops would rise from the
present 1.2 tons/ha maize and 0.7 tons/ha soybeans to 1.5 tons/ha and 1.0
ton/ha. At Pekalen-Sampean, present rice yields of 3.6 tons/ha are expected
to increase to 4.0 tons/ha in the wet season and 3.8 tons/ha in the dry
season. Secondary crop yields at Pekalen-Sampean would also increase through
greater control of field irrigation and better drainage. Present yields of
1.5 tons/ha would rise to 1.8 tons/ha. Soybean yields would increase from the
present 0.7 tons/ha to 1.0 tons/ha. These yield estimates which would be
obtained four years after the completion of each tertiary system, are based on
actual yield increases recorded under existing tertiary development programs
in the project areas and elsewhere in Java.
Drying, Storage and Processing
5.06      Farmers sun-dry paddy on the roadside and in house yards on mats
and store it in their houses. Drying of the wet season crop is sometimes
difficult, but farm families are adept at drying the small quantities grown
by each farmer (usually 1.0 to 1.5 tons). The BUUD/KTIDs are increasingly
equipped with concrete drying floors, and private traders distributed
throughout subproject areas invariably have drying facilities. All
project areas are in established rice growing areas, and adequate rice
milling facilities exist, which can meet future demand without difficulty.
Most rice is milled to medium grade, around 35% broken.
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Market Prospects
6.01      Indonesian rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for
many decades. From 1969 to 1976 imports ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million
tons. In 1977/78 imports rose to about 2.3 million tons; because of an
excellent 1977/78 harvest, imports during 1978/79 were 1.3 million tons;
1979/80 imports, however, are expected to be substantially higher.   Rice-
oriented policies have been a major element of the Government's development
strategy in Repelita I and II (1969/70 to 1973/74 and 1978/79) and continue
to receive very high priority. As a result of the heavy investments aimed
at increasing the domestic supply of rice, production is expected to grow at
between 3% and 3.5% p.a. to 1985; this, however, would still imply an



- 35 -
average annual rice deficit of 2 to 3 million tons in 1985 (10% to 15% of
the total producton)./1 Continuation of high investment rates over the next
ten years could reduce the average expected annual deficit to 2 million tons
in 1990./1 Marketing prospects for paddy should therefore remain eminently
favorable in the future.
6.02      Most of the incremental rice production in the Serang River area,
Madiun, Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean would be consumed at the farm level,
while the surplus is expected to be marketed in the Semarang, Surabaya and
Jakarta urban areas. Secondary crop production would be marketed locally.
6.03      The marketing system for rice in Indonesia is well established and
provides for producer price support and consumer protection through interven-
tion of the Government's rice procurement authority (BULOG/DOLOG) both on
producer and consumer markets (para. 6.05). BULOG/rOTOG maintains a floor
price for paddy and the BUUD/KUDs, acting as purchasing agent in the
villages, buy standard grades of paddy directly from farmers at a fixed
price. The floor price is currently Rp 95 (US$0.15)/kg for 14% moist paddy
at the village. During non-harvest periods open market prices are generally
higher than the floor price. A large proportion of the trade is handled by
private dealers and millers, and during the wet season harvest, farmers may
sell paddy on the open market at a discount if the BUUD/KUDs exhaust their
credit lines, and farmers are unable to obtain the cash needed immediately
for payment of taxes or debts and for purchase of inputs for the new season.
Most farmers sell paddy with about 18-20% moisture content and up to 10%
impurities and obtain a lower price of Rp 85/kg. Practically all farmers
have to sell some paddy immediately after harvest to meet their debts, even
if they have to repurchase rice later for consumption at prices up to Rp
150/kg. BULOG, through its subsidiary DOLOG, also maintains rice and paddy
storage facilities at the provincial level. Farmers sell their secondary
crop production in village and subdistrict markets. Facilities at these
markets are being upgraded where necessary under the INPRES program. Some
BUUD/KUDs are disseminating information on market prices to their members.
Prices
6.04      For farm budgets and economic analysis, farm inputs and outputs
have been valued at early 1980 prices. For rice, soybeans and fertilizers,
economic prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts
for world market prices, and adjusted for transportation and other costs;
the calculations are shown in Table 6.1. The economic prices of paddy
assumed in the analysis are US$243 per ton in 1980 (Rp 152 per kg) and
/1 "Indonesia: Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops," Report No. 2374-IND,
March 3, 1979, and "Indonesia: Irrigation Program Review," Report
No. 2027a-IND, October 16, 1978. Over the five years in Repelita II
(1974-78), investment in irrigation was about US$2,150 million in 1979
prices.



- 36 -
Table 6.1: PRICE STRUCTURE FOR. FOOD CROPS AND FERTILIZERS
Food crop and                            1980 (beginning)                 1q90 (mid)
fertiizer prices /a                  '000 Rp/ton   US$/ton    '000 Pp/ton   USS/ton
Rice
Export price, Thai, 5% broken          255.6       409              275.0        440
f.o.b Bangkok
Indonesian import prices /b           230.0        368              247.5        396
Ocean freight and insurance             12.5        20                12.5        20
Port handling and storage                3.8          6                3.8         6
Transport to wholesalers /c              5.n          8                5.0         8
Handling, transport mill to
wholesaler /d                        -2.5         -4               -2.5         -4
Rice, ex-mill, project area            248.8       398              266.3        426
Paddy equivalent /e                    156.7       251               167.5       768
Hilling costs less value
of by-products                           0         0                   n         0
Farm operations                        - 1.9        -3                -1.9        -3
Gross farm-gate price                  154.8       248               165.6       265
Transport losses /f                     -3.1        -5                -3.8        -6
Farm-gate price, net of
transport losses                    151.7        243              161.9        259
Corn
Export price, f.o.b.                    86.9       139               108.7       174
U.S. Gulf Ports
Ocean freight and insurance             18.8        30                18.8        30
Port handling at Semarang                3.8         6                 3.8         6
Transport, wholesalers to wharf          5.0          8                5.0          8
Corn price at wholesalers              114.5       183               136.3       218
Transport, farm to wholesalers          -2.5        -4                -2.5        -4
Farm-gate price                        112.0       179               133.8       214
Soybean
Export price, U.S. c.i.f.              158.8       254              259.4        415
Ro tterdam
Ocean freight and insurance              9.4        15                 9.4        15
Port handling at Semarang                4.4          7                4.4          7
Transport, wholesalers to wharf          5.0          8                5.0          P
Soybean price at wholesalers           177.6       284              278.2        445
Transport, farm to wholesalers          -3.8        -6                -3.8        -6
Farm-gate price                        173.8       278              274.4        439
So rghm
Export price, f.o.b. Gulf
Port                                     78.1       125             95.0        152
Ocean freight and insurance              18.8         30             18.8        30
Port handling                             3.7          6              3.7         6
Transport, wholesalers to wharf           5.0          8              5.0         8
Sorghum price at wholesalers            105.6       169            122.5        196
Transport, farm to wholesalers           -2.5         -4             -2.5        -4
Farm-gate price                         103.1       165            120.0        192
Urea
World export price, f.o.b.               99.4       159            125.6        201
Europe
Ex-factory price, Palembang /g          108.8       174            135.0        216
Handling and distribution to
retail level                          18.8         30             18.8         30
Transport to farm                         1.2          2              1.2         2
Farm-gate price                         128.8       706            155.0        248
Triple super phosphate
World export price, f.o.b.               80.0       128            115.6        185
Florida
Ocean freight and insurance              18.8        30             18.8         30
Handling and distribution to
retail level                          15.6         25             15.6         25
Transport BUUD/FUD kiosk to farm          1.2          2              1.2         2
Farm-gate price                         115.6       185            151.2        242
/a  Calculated at an exchange rate of IUS$1.00 - Rp 625.
lb  90% of export price, Thai, 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok.
/c  Weighted average of transportation costs to the wholesalers in the
different project areas.
/d  Based on an average distance of 50 km from the production area to
the wholesalers.
/e  Based on a 63% rice recovery ratio.
If  Based on 2% transportation loss between field and mill.
g  Urea is valued at ex-PUSRI factory, Palembang; IBP.D world market price
price projections for bagged urea f.o.b. Europe have been adjusted for
South-East Asia markets with a US$15 transport premiun.



- 37 -
US$288 per ton in 1990 (Rp 180 per kg). The remaining inputs not traded on
the international market have been expressed in terms of actual (farmgate)
prices. All prices used in the analyses are summarized in Table 6.2. Rice
produced under the project would substitute for Indonesian imports of 25%
broken quaLity rice. It has been shown that the world market price for this
quality of rice is about 90% of the standard 5% broken Thai white rice price.
This has been used to project the future cost savings in Indonesian rice
imports. The economic price of soybeans has been calculated under the
assumption that Indonesia would remain a net importer of soybeans. Indonesia
has been a traditional exporter of limited amounts of soybeans until the
last three years; it has since become a net importer under the continued
influences of increasing domestic demand and slackening production. It is
not expected that production will keep up with demand in the coming years.
6.05      Histor.cally, the Government has followed a policy of maintaining
low food prices by selling imported rice below cost and keeping domestic
floor prices low. To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm income, the
Government has simultaneously subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. In 1974
and 1975, however, the Government substantially raised domestic paddy prices
to encourage rice production. This change in policy, combined with the fall
of world prices from the record levels of 1973-74, brought farm-gate prices
fairly close to world market levels, taking into account the quality
differences. The current floor price of paddy of Rp 95/kg is expected to
increase to Rp 120/kg in 1980 (in 1980 prices). Prices of fertilizers would
rise from a present low of Rp 70/kg to Rp 100/kg, an increase warranted by
rising oil prices and by the effects of the November 15, 1978 devaluation of
the Rupiah.
Farm Incomes
6.06      Three typical farm sizes (0.2, 0.4 and 0.7 ha) have been selected
for farm income analysis. In the analysis, it is assumed that the farm family
performs all the farm tasks and also works off the farm during slack periods.
The land use and cropping patterns for the present conditions broadly repre-
sent the averages of the aggregate cultivated lands in the project areas.
Farm budgets include costs for harvest labor but not for farm family labor.
Sharecropping is extensive in the project areas, and the farm incomes have
been calculated for both owner-operators and sharecroppers. The details
of the estimated incomes for different farm sizes are presented in Annex 2
and are summarized in Table 6.3.
Project Charges
6.07      The Government has effective mechanisms to recover a significant
measure of project costs through the collection of the IPEDA tax and of a
water charge.
6.08      IPEDA. IPEDA is a land tax collected nationwide by the village head
and turned over to local and provincial administrations for use in public
services. Allocation of GOI funds under the local infrastructure development



- 38 -
Table 6.2: INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICE SUMMARY
1980 (beginning)             1990 (mid)
Financial       Economic      Financial   Economic
Crops (Rp/kg)
Paddy                               85             152           120          160
Corn                                80             112            80          134
Soybeans                           220            174           274          274
Sorghum                             75            103             75          120
Seeds (Rp/kg)
Rice - local                         85            160           100          190
- HYV                         200            250           200          250
Corn                                80             125            80          150
Soybeans                           220            200           300          300
Sorghum                             90            110             90         135
Fertilizer (Rp/kg)
Urea                                70            129            100          155
TSP                                 70             116           100          151
Other Inputs
Zinc phosRhide (Rp/kg)           2,300          4,200         2,300        4,200
Agrochemicals (Rp/l)             1,250          6,400         1,250        6,400
Animal labor (Rp/day)            1,250          1,250          1,250        1,250
Farm labor (Rp/man-day)
Land preparation                   700            350            700         350
Planting                           500            250           500          250
Crop management                    500            250           500          250
Harvesting                         800            400            800         400



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Summarv of Farm Incomes
Net crop income                        Off-farm income                       Total farm income                        Per capita income
Future w/o  Future with                Future w/o  Future with                 Future w/o  Future with                 Future w/o  Future with
Present   project         project    Present   project            project    Present   project            project    Present   project            project
--------------------------------------------- Rp'00O -----------------------------------------------  ------------ UsS$ ---------------
-----------------------------------------  Serang  Drainage and Flood Control --------------------------------------------------
Nonfiooded Area
0.2 ha  Owner-operator                  48           71             82          75          75              75        123          146             157         36           42              46
Sharecropper                   25           36             42         75           75             75         100          111            117          29           32              34
0.4 ha  Owner-operator                  88          132            153          65           65             65        153          197             218          45           57             63
Sharecropper                   46           68             80         65           65             65         111          133            145          32           39              42
0.7 ha  Owner-operator                 150          226            259          55           55             55        205          281             314          60          82              91
Sharecropper                   78          116            135         55           55             55         133          171            190          39           50              55
Flooded Area
0.2 ha  Owner-operator                  22           31             60          75           75             75         97          106             135          28          31              39
Sharecropper                   12           16             32         75           75             75          87           91            107          25           26              31
0.4 ha  Owner-operator                  40           57            111          65           65             65        105          122             176          31           35             51
Sharecropper                   21           30             59         65           65              65         86           95            124          25           28              36
0.7 ha  Owner-operator                  68           99            195          60           60             60        128          159             255          37           46             74
Sharecropper                   37           52            104          60          60             60          97          112             164         28           33              48
------------------------------------------------- Madiun Rehabilitation - Stage II ---------------------------------------------------
0.2 ha  Owner-operator                  70           89            117          70           70             70        140          159             187          41           46             54
Sharecropper                   36           45             60          70          70              70        106          115            130          31           33              38
0.4 ha  Owner-operator                 133          170            221          60           60             60        193          230             281          56           67             82
Sharecropper                   68           86            114         60           60              60        128          146             174         37           42              51
0.7 ha  Owner-operator                 224          285            374          45           45             45        269          330             419          78           96            122
Sharecropper                  115          147            192         45           45             45         160          192            237          47           56              69
-----------------__------------------------------------  Tertiary Development                  ---------------------------------------------
Pekalen-Sampean
0.2 ha  Owner-operator                  93          132            143          70           70             70        163          202             212          47           59             62
Sharecropper                   47           67             73          70          70              70        117          1-37           143           34          40              42
0.4 ha  Owner-operator                 176          250            269          60           60             60        236          310             329          69           90             96
Sharecropper                   89          126            138         60           60             60         149          186            198          43           54              58
0.7 ha  Owner-operator                 294          418            450          45           45             45        339          463             495          99          135            144
Sharecropper                  150          212            231         45           45             45         195          257            276          57           75              80
Pemali Comal
0.2 ha  Owner-operator                  74          107            123          70           70             70        144          177             193          42           51             56
Sharecropper                   38           54             63         70           70              70        108          124            133          31           36              39
0.4 ha  Owner-operator                 139          200            230          60           60             60        199          260             290          58           76             84
Sharecropper                   71          101            118         60           60              60        131          161             178         38           47              52
0.7 ha  Owner-operator    5.5          233          336            386          45          45              45        278          381             431          68           98            125
Sharecropper         5.5      119          170            199         45           45              45        164          215            244           35          49              71                  5
(D



- 40 -
program (INPRES) are tied to IPEDA collection performance and provide a
constant incentive for good IPEDA collection rates. The IPEDA land classifi-
cation is based on soil fertility, quality of irrigation and other yield
determining factors and IPEDA levels are based on average production levels
on these clas-s of land; amounts collected would therefore increase as crop
yields rise and IPEDA land classification is modified in the project area in
response to the project. There is no mechanism relating incremental IPEDA
collection due to irrigation projects to incremental allocations of O&M funds.
6.09      Water Charges.  Water charges are collected by water users associa-
tions and are earmarked for O&M of tertiary and quaternary canals and drains.
The levels of water charges vary according to the level of development of
tertiary units but would average some 25 kg of paddy/ha/season for units
developed to approved GOI standards. This is sufficient to pay for the
services of the wat0±r-master (ulu-ulu) and, -where applicable, of his assis-
tants; sometimes the water charge is in the form of an area of village rice
land reserved for the water master.
6.10      Cost Recovery.  Present and estimated future levels of IPEDA and
water charges are as follows:
Table 6.4: PROJECT CHARGES AVERAGED OVER PROJECT AREAS
Present /a        With project /b        Increment
(Rp/ha) /c ----------------------
IPEDA               7,500                12,500              5,000
Water charges            -                4,250              4,250
Total          7,500                16,750              9,250
/a Present and "future without project" charges would be the same.
/b  With project refers to full agricultural development.
/c In constant early 1980 prices.
At full development, water charges would cover O&M costs at the tertiary
level and incremental IPEDA collection would more than offset incremental
O&M outlays for main and secondary networks./l Direct cost recovery indices
comparing the present value of direct Government recovery (incremental IPEDA)
discounted at 10% opportunity cost of capital to present value of Government
costs (capital + O&M of main systems) are shown in Table 6.5. Further
analysis of the cost recovery issue should take into account lower government
/1 In 1980/81, O&M expenses are fixed at Rp 3,540/ha for nonrehabilitated
systems and Rp 5,820/ha for rehabilitated system (PROSIDA standards)
resulting in Rp 2,280/ha incremental O&M expenses due to rehabilitation
(Annex 4).



- 41 -
expenses for international rice procurement due to increased domestic produc-
tion (indirect recovery) and the advantages of Bank borrowing (indirect
cost).
6.11      Rent Recovery.  From the point-of-view of the benefiting farmer,
the project is a windfall opportunity for realizing increased incomes
(Table 6.3). The project rent calculation shown in Annex 2, Table 8,
attempts to separate earned income increases (through increased labor,
management, etc.) from "nonearned" increases and the rent recovery index
indicates how much of the "nonearned" portion is returned to the Government
over the project life. Rent recovery indices for project components are
shown in Table 6.5. Most project farmers have annual per capita incomes
below the critical consumption level of about US$110. Rent recovery indices
are consistent with the farmers' capacity to pay and both GOI and the Bank's
income distribution objectives especially since besides IPEDA and water
charges, farmers pay some 10% of gross production in village taxes, and
contribute to the social life of the village through religious taxes,
compulsory feasts and by allowing village members to participate in the
harvest.
6.12      O&M Funding.  The amounts provided each year for operation and
maintenance of systems rehabilitated or constructed with Bank Group
assistance have steadily risen, consistent with assurances given by the
Government. Further increases are still necessary, but to ease the burden
on the Central Government, ways of increasing project charges are being
considered. Assurances were obtained while negotiating Irrigation Project
XII that by June 30, 1980, the Government would prepare and furnish to the
Bank for comment, a study to: (a) determine the level of funds necessary to
ensure adequate operation and maintenance of irrigation systems financed by
the Bank and the Association; (b) investigate sources of funds and
mechanisms to ensure timely availability of such funds; and (c) recommend
appropriate levels of direct and indirect contributions including, among
others, IPEDA contributions from the beneficiaries of irrigation. The study
which is being conducted by the University of Gaja Mada (Jogjakarta) covers
as sample areas the Pemali-Comal (Java) and Sadang (South Sulawesi) systems.
6.13      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that following
completion of project irrigation works, the government would collect from
farmers an adjusted IPEDA sufficient to ensure sound O&M practices and to
recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs during the project's
useful life, taking into account farmers' incentives and ability to pay.
Assurances were obtained also that appropriate water charges would be
collected by water users associations to ensure sound O&M practices at the
tertiary level, and that the IPEDA rates established and collected would be
furnished once every two years for the Bank's comments (para. 4.10).



- 42 -
Table 6.5: COST AND RENT RECOVERY INDICES
Serapg_
Non-
flooded  Flooded   Madiun   Pemali-Comal   Pekalan-Sampean
Rent Recovery Index /a (%)
0.2 ha Farm
Owner-operator       40.4      15.1      17.0         27.5               42.2
Sharecropper         26.7       9.3      12.1         16.0               30.8
0.4 ha Farm
Owner-operator       43.0      15.9      17.2         29.8               48.1
Sharecropper         39.1      11.2      13.2         24.3              50.0
0.7 ha Farm
Owner-operator       43.9      15.9      19.2         31.1              47.4
Sharecropper         35.7      11.1       6.2         25.0              39.5
Direct Cost Recovery Index /b (%)
5            11           31                 31
/a  The Rent Recovery Index is the ratio of the present value of incremental
revenue (IPEDA and water charges) to the present value of project tents,
both calculated at 10% discount rate. Project rent calculations are
detailed in Annex 2 Table 8 and attempt to show the nonearned revenues
accruing to the farmers as a result of the project. On any farm the rent
is defined as from farm income less farm expenses less taxes less imputed
value of family labor less allowances for management and risk; the project
rent is defined as the incremental revenues of all farms benefiting from
the project.
/b The Direct Cost Recovery Index is the ratio of the present value of
incremental revenue (IPEDA and water charges) to the present value of
incremental financial costs, both calculated at 10% discount rate.



- 43 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The project would increase crop yields and production on a quarter
of a million hectares of land and directly benefit 0.6 million farm families
or 2.6 million people; it would indirectly benefit some 0.3 million landless
laborers' families, or 1.7 million people. The project would permit more
timely planting of the rice crop; allow additional secondary crops to be grown
in the following dry season in presently flooded areas; and by increasing
cultivation inputs and harvesting labor needs, would create a demand for an
additional 8.1 million man-days of farm labor each yStr, equivalent to 31,500
full-time additional jobs. The project would create a demand for some 114,000
man-years of construction labor over the construction period. Expected future
crop yields and production, with and without the project, are discussed in
Chapter 5.
7.02      Access and inspection roads along drains and canals improved or
constructed under the project would substantially benefit the Serang and
Madiun areas.  Farm production would be stimulated because of easier market-
ing of produce and travel of extension service staff. The drainage and flood
protection works would diminish O&M costs and travel interruptions on
presently seasonally flooded roads. The recurrent threat of flooding and
present household disruption due to flooding would be reduced, and health
would improve especially by reduction of intestinal diseases and parasites.
The non agricultural benefits of drainage and flood control account for about
10% of benefits on Serang. They have been estimated on the basis of physical
damage avoided and reduced costs of repairing and maintaining roads, bridges,
levees and structures, and of health care and government subsidies.
7.03      At present some 90% of project farmers have per capita incomes below
the estimated absolute poverty level /1 and, therefore, belong to the target
poverty population. At full project development, this proportion would be
lowered to about 80%. About 60% of project farm benefits would accrue to the
target group of poor farmers with 25% accruing to sharecroppers and 35% to
owner-operators. The remainder would go to larger farmers (average farm size
1.7 ha) a majority of which still earn less than the national average per
capita income (US$360). Costs per farm familyL2 to achieve projected benefits
are US$640 in the Serang subproject; US$230 in Madiun; and US$100 for the
Tertiary subproject.
Main Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
7.04      The main assumptions used are:
Foreign Exchange. Together with the November 1978 devaluation of
the rupiah, a package of measures was enacted to reduce import
duties, quantitative restrictions and export subsidies. As a
result, the present official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 625 is
/1  Based on an estimated absolute poverty level (in 1980 prices), of
US$120 per capita per annum.
12 Including physical and price contingencies.



- 44 -
estimated to reflect the value to the economy of the foreign
exchange used in carrying out the project and saved through
increased grain production. A standard conversion factor of 1.0
has, therefore, been used in replacement of the previous factor of
0.85^ However, this value has also been considered in the
sensitivity analyses.
Labor Pricing. There is considerable population pressure in
the project areas as in most areas of Java. This is reflected in
the large proportion of landless population (up to 402) and small
average farm sizes (about 0.4 ha) which compel farm laborers to seek
additional off-farm employment. As a result, labor supply is
overabundant and wages are low, averaging less than Rp 550 per
man-day; unemployment is considerable and economic wages have
consequently been assessed at about 50% of market values (Rp 275 per
man-day) as for similar Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia. Given
the low market wages, variations in this percentage would only have
negligible effects on the rate of return.
Investment Costs.   The construction unit rates are expressed
in early 1980 prices net of taxes and duties. Because of the
November 1978 devaluation, and post devaluation government controls,
unit rates of local components are artificially low in US$ terms; in
the coming years, local costs are expected to escalate faster than
foreign costs. Inflation rates have been applied to the local
components therefore to take into acount the difference between
local and international inflation on investment costs at at levels
of 6% for 1981, 7% for 1982 and 3% between 1983 and 1985, consistent
with price increase assumptions in para. 3.13. With shadow pricing
of labor, economic costs are as follows:
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC COSTS
Serang River            Madiun              Tertiary
drainage & flood        irrigation           irrigation
protection         rehabilitation          systems
Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic
cost /a    cost       cost /a   cost        cost La  cost
(US$ million)--------------------
Unskilled labor    12.0        7.0         3.3       1.9       10.8       6.2
Other local costs  28.6       33.5        11.6      13.3       12.6      14.4
Foreign component  30.9       30.9        16.2      16.2        4.4       4.4
Total             71.5      71.4        31.1     31.4        27.8     25.0
/a  Base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 45 -
Development Period. In the Serang subproject the largest contribu-
tion to benefits would be made by farmers planting rice at the start
of the wet season, instead of the end of the wet season, and then
introducing secondary crops in the dry season. Farmers would change
the present cropping pattern when assured that drainage and flood
protection works are effective. Similarly, farmers not affected by
annual flooding, would improve cultivation practices markedly after
they feel secure from periodic flooding. The benefit build up has
been assessed over four years, with only 15% of benefits realized
the year after completion of works and a buildup of 40%, 80%, and
100% thereafter. No changes in cropping pattern are projected for
the Madiun and Tertiary Development subprojects and in accordance
with results being achieved under earlier projects, a steady benefit
build up over four years has been assessed. Benefits have been
assumed to increase by 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% of full benefits.
Other Assumptions. Economic cost and benefit streams have been
expressed in border prices (conversion factors method). The period
of analysis is 30 years. Shadow pricing of inputs other than labor
has not been found necessary; in particular, the waters used by the
project components have no other use than contributing to the with-
out project agricultural production.
Economic Rates of Return
7.05      The economic rates of return are 14% for the Serang River Drainage
and Flood Protection, 29% for Madiun irrigation rehabilitation, and 37% for
tertiary irrigation construction in Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean. The
rate of return on the overall project is 25%. Economic costs and benefits
are summarised in Tables 7.2 and Annex 2 Table 12.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.06      Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would be
most crucial to the success of the project. To that end, crossover values for
a 10% discount rate were calculated for a number of variables. The crossover
value is the value of the variable tested for which the project's net present
value, calculated at 10% discount rate, is zero, or, equivalently, the value
beyond which the economic rate of return would be below 10%. Therefore, the
greater the difference between the crossover value and the value assumed in
the analysis, the less sensitive the economic rate of return is to the tested
variable.
7.07      The Serang River drainage and flood protection subproject is not
overly sensitive to individual assumptions, in particular, future world prices
of rice could be lower than present prices by up to 39% (in real terms), and
leave the rate of return above 10% (Table 7.3).   Rice yield increases of
about 560 kgs/ha are predicted over a four-year development period, but an
increase of 272 kgs/ha would be sufficient to justify the subproject. If



- 46 -
Table 7.2:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEPITS
(US$ million)
Costs
Capital     O&M      Total    Benefits
Serang Drainage and Flood Control
1980                         2.9       -          2.9        -
1981                        19.4       0.1       19.5        0.1
1982                        24.8        0.5      25.3        0.8
1983                        19.2        1.1      20.3        2.9
1984                         5.1        1.6       6.7        6.3
1985                                    1.7       1-7       10;0
1986                                    1.7       1.7       12.7
1987                                    1.7       1.7       14.0
1988                                    1.7       1.7       14.5
1989-2010                               1.7        1.7      14.6
NPV
At 10% discount rate        58.9       13.0      71.9       93.5
At 20% discount rate        49.9        5.9      55.8       37.5
Economic rate of return:  14%
Madiun Rehabilitation (Stage II)
1980                        4.1        -          4.1        -
1981                        12.3       0.1       12.4        0.5
1982                        12.2       0.4       12.6        2.5
1983                         2.8       0.7        3.5        2.8
1984                                   0.8        0.8        9.6
1985                                   0.8        0.8       12.6
1986                                   0.8        0.8       14.3
1987-2010                              0.8        0.8       14.6
Present Value
At 10% discount rate        27.5        6.5      34.0      100.3
At 20% discount rate        24.4        3.1      27.4       42.3
At 40% discount rate        20.1        1.3      21.4       14.2
Economic rate of return:  29%
Tertiary Development
Pekalan-Sampean
1980                        3.5        -          3.8        -
1981                        3.8        0.3        4.1        0.5
1982                         3.8       0.7        4.5        1.7
1983                         3.4       1.0        4.8        3.4
1984                                   1.0        1.0/       5.6
1985                                   1.0        1.0        7.2
1986                                   1.0        1.0        8.4
1987-2010                              1.0        1.0        8.9
Present Value
At 10% discount rate        12.6        8.5      21.1       62.1
At 20% discount rate        11.3        4.2      15.5       26.7
At 40% discount rate         9.4        1.4      10.8        9.3
Economic Rate of Return:  37%
Pemali-Comal
1980                         2.5       -          2.6        -
1981                         2.8       0.2        2.9        0.4
1982                        2.7        0.5        3.2        1.2
1983                         2.5       0.7        3.4        2.5
1984                                   0.7        0.7        4.1
1985                                   0.7        0.7        5.3
1986                                   0.7        0.7        6.2
1987-2010                              0.7        0.7        6.6
Present Value
At 10% discount rate         9.2        6.0      15.2       45.9
At 20% discount rate         8.2        2.9      11.1       19.7
At 40% discount rate         6.8        1.3       8.1        6.9
Economic Rate of Return:  37%



- 47 -
construction costs were to rise 37% above estimated costs and the projected
benefits are realized, the rate of return would stay above 10%. Delays of
3-1/2 years in realizing projected benefits would reduce the rate of return to
10%. Nonagricultural benefits are estimated to be about 10% of total
subproject benefits, and failure to realize such benefits would reduce the
rate of return by less than 2%. Because of the complex interrelation between
drainage and flood protection works in the proposed Serang scheme, no attempt
has been made to analyze these works and their benefits separately.
7.08      Crossover values (shown also in Table 7.3) confirm that rehabilita-
tion of irrigation systems in Madiun and tertiary systems development in
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean allows substantial yield increases at rela-
tively low cost; in the analysis, wet season rice yields have been assumed to
increase by 400 kgs/ha in Madiun and 300 kgs/ha in tertiary subproject areas,
but secondary crop benefits alone are sufficient to justify the project in
Madiun and Pemali-Comal while increases in paddy yields of only about 10 kgs/
ha are sufficient in Pekalen-Sampean (yield increases of 200 kgs/ha soybeans
and 300 kgs/ha maize have been assumed). Sensitivity to rice prices is
naturally of the same order; assumptions regarding cropping intensities have
minimal bearing on justification of the irrigation subprojects; secondary
crops account for 36% of benefits in Madiun and 29% of benefits in tertiary
areas. For all subproject components, shadow pricing assumptions are of
secondary importance.
7.09      Risks.  No major management or organizational problems are expected
in the implementation of the project. Rapid inflation over the last several
years led to sizeable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s.
Inflation is a continuing problem after last year's devaluation of the Rupiah;
however, the provisions for price increases are greater than in earlier
projects financed by the Bank Group. Cost estimates for Miadiun rehabilitation
works were extrapolated from actual costs of the Stage I project, taking due
account of inflation and allowing for smaller sized systems. Actual costs of
Stage II might turn out to be rather different, but the foregoing sensitivity
analysis indicates that the Madiun project's economic viability would be
little affected by sizeable cost increases.



- 48 -
Table 7.3: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal     Crossover
value         value        % Change
Serarig Drainage and Flood Control
Increase in paddy yields /a (kg/ha)            560          272/b          -39
World price of rice /c (US$/ton)               490           238/b         -39
Total construction cost (US$ million)         71.5            97.7         +37
Pure benefit delay                             n.a.     3.4 yrs.           n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /d                625          512            -18
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                 0.5             2.8        +460
Madiun Rehabilitation - Stage II
Increase in paddy yields /a (kg/ha)            400              /e            /e
World price of rice /c (US$/ton)               490              /e            /e
Total construction cost (US$ million)         31.1        106.1           +341
Pure benefit delay                             n.a.    11.4 yrs.           n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /d                625        263              -58
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                 0.5          3.5           +600
Tertiary Development
Pekalan-Sampean
Increase in paddy yields /a (kg/ha)            318              /e            /e
World price of rice /c (US$/ton)               490              /e            /e
Total construction cost (US$ million)         16.3             69.3       +325
Pure benefit delay                             n.a.    11.3 yrs.           n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /d                625    320                  -49
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                 0.5          2.4           +380
Pemali-Comal
Increase in paddy yields /a (kg/ha)            321             /e             /e
World price of rice /c (US$/ton)               490              /e            /e
Total construction cost (US$ million)         11.5         49.9           +334
Pure benefit delay                             n.a.    11.6 yrs.           n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /d                625        245              -61
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                 0.5          2.4           +380
/a Based on weighted average of yield increases.
/b 54% of benefits are due to paddy.
/c Price of Thai, 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok.
Id Rupiah equivalent of US$1.
/e  Although 64% of expected total Madiun benefits and 71% of tertiary benefits
would arise from increased rice production, benefits from secondary crops
alone would be sufficient to justify the project at a 10% discount rate.



- 49 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
on the following points:
(a) except for a total of up to US$5 million of works
with minimum contract size of US$100,000, civil works at Madiun
would be grouped into a number of suitable contracts with minimum
size US$500,000 (para. 3.16)
(b) contracts for civil works exceeding US$1.5 million and for
equipment exceeding US$200,000 in value would be submitted to the
Bank for review before tendering and award (para. 3.18);
(c) PROSIDA would maintain separate accounts for each subproject;
engage auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit these accounts and
.statements of expenditures submitted in support of loan withdrawal
applications; and submit to the Bank, within six months of the
close of each fiscal year, audited statements, together with the
auditor's comments (para. 3.20);
(d) by July 1, 1980, GOI would appoint consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and conditions of employment would be satis-
factory to the Bank to assist with construction supervision
(para. 4.05);
(e) the Government would take the necessary steps to ensure that:
before the start of construction of any tertiary network a water-
user association would be established to assist in obtaining
right-of-way for construction, and to operate and maintain it
after completion; and promptly when a tertiary network is completed
each association would establish and collect from its members
contributions adequate to cover sound operation and maintenance
of the system (para. 4.10);
(f) all canals, drains, structures, roads, equipment and other facil-
ities of the irrigation and flood protection systems rehabilitated
or constructed with the financial assistance of the Bank would be
adequately operated and maintained, in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, financial and public utility policies
and practices, and such action would be taken as reasonably required
to ensure the economic use of the water made available by such
systems for agricultural development and operations; at all times
adequate staff are employed and funds allocated and would be made
available to the organizations or departments charged with
maintenance of any such system, an amount of liquid funds equal to
not less than one half of the amount budgeted for the O&M of such
systems in each fiscal year, and make the balance available in
equal quarterly installments until all budgeted amounts have been



- 50 -
made available; the number of qualified O&M staff would be progres-
sively increased until adequate levels agreed with the Bank have
been attained; by December 31 of each year GOI would inform the
Bank of the proposed cost per hectare for O&M budgets and staff
requirements for all systems assiste by the Bank Group by June 1
of the following year of the approved budgets, and by October 1 of
each following year the staff provisions; and by December 31,
1981, the Government would submit to the Bank for its review
proposals for staffing and funding O&M of drainage, river training
and flood control works constructed under the Serang subproject,
together with a maintenance program for these works and a flood
warning system; and by April 1, 1983, it would begin to implement
these proposals and keep the Bank informed on the progress of
their implementation (para. 4.11); and
(g) following the completion of project irrigation works, the
Government would collect from farmers an adjusted IPEDA sufficient
to ensure sound O&M practices and to recover a reasonable portion
of the capital costs during the projects' useful life, taking into
account farmers' incentives to pay; and that the IPEDA rates
established and collected would be furnished once every two years
for the Bank's comments (para. 6.13).
8.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$116 million with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of five
years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 51 -
INDONESIA                                         ANNEX 1
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV                                   Table 1
Cost Estimate /a
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign Total   exchange  cost
----- Rp million -----  ----- US$ million  ---  __-  % ------
1. Serang Drainage & Flood Control
Civil works                       17,810  15,190  33,000    28.5        24.3    52.8        46      88
Land acquisition                    1,500       -   1,500       2.4         -     2.4        -        4
Consulting services lb                250     630      880      0.4      1.0      1.4       71        2
Vehicles & construction equip.          -     190      190        -      0.3      0.3      100        1
Training                                -     120      120        -      0.2      0.2      100       -
Administratation & overhead         1,810       -   1,810       2.9         -     2.9        -        5
Base Cost                      21.370  16.130  37,500    34.2        25.8    60.0        43     100
Physical contingencies /c          4,070   3,120   7,190        6.5      5.0    11.5        43       19
Expected price increase           10,500   4,440  14,940    16.8         7.1    23.9        30      40
Subtotal                       35.940  23.690  59.630    57.5        37.9    95.4       40      159
Taxes on civil works /e             1,560   1,060   2,620       2.5       1.7     4.2       40        7
Total                          37,500  24,750  62,250    60.0        39.6    99.6        40     166
2. Madiun Rehabilitation - Stage II
Civil works                        6,940   7,690  14,630    11.1        12.3    23.4        53      84
Consulting services /b                940     810   1,750       1.5      1.3      2.8       46       10
Vehicles & construction equip.          -      60       60        -      0.1      0.1      100       -
O&M equipment                           -     130      130        -      0.2      0.2      100        1
Administration & overhead             810       -      810      1.3        -      1.3        -        5
Base Cost                       8,690   8.690  17.380    13.9        13.9    27.8        49     100
Physical contingencies /c           1,560   1,630   3,190       2.5      2.6      5.1       51       18
Expected price increase            2,940   1,680   4,620        4.7      2.7      7.4       36      27
Subtotal                       13.190  12,000  25,190    21.1        19.2    40.3       48      145
Taxes on civil works /e               500     560   1,060       0.8      0.9      1.7       53        6
Total                          13,690  12,560  26,250    21.9        20.1    42.0        48     151
3. Tertiary Development
Civil works                       11,440   2,190  13,630    18.3         3.5    21.8        17      76
Consulting services                2,690      560   3,250       4.3      0.9      5.2       17       18
Vehicles and equipment                  -     120      120        -      0.2      0.2      100        1
Mapping                                60     130      190      0.1      0.2      0.3       67        1
Administration & overhead             810       -      810      1.3         -     1.3        -        5
Base Cost                      15,000   3,000  18,000    24.0         4.8    28.8        17     100
Physical contingencies /c          2,690      560   3,250       4.3      0.9      5.2       17       18
Expected price increase            5,250      630   5,880       8.4      1.0      9.4       11      33
Subtotal                       22,940   4,190  27.130    36.7         6.7    43.4        15     151
Taxes on civil works /e               870     190   1,060       1.4      0.3      1.7       17        6
Total                          23.810   4,380  28.190    38.1         7.0    45.1        16     157
Project subtotal               72.070  39.880 111,950   115.3        63.8   179.1        36     154
Taxes on civil works /e             2,930   1,810   4,740       4.7      2.9      7.6       38        7
PROJECT TOTAL                  75,000  41.690 116.690   120.0        66.7   186.7        37     160
/a  Based on beginning 1980 prices and exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 625.
/b  Based on billing rate of about US$7,100/man-month and reimbursable expenses of about US$3,400/man-
month for foreign consultants and billing rate of about US$1,200/man-month and reimbursable expenses
of about US$300/man-month for local engineers.
/c  About 20% for civil works and 10% for equipment and services.
/d  Includes tertiary and quaternary drains.
Ie  Based on 5% of civil works (base cost plus physical contingencies plus expected price increase
for civil works).



-52 -                                                             ANN3EX I
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ million)
1980/81         1981/82          1982/83          1983/84         1984/85        Total expenditures
Incal Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Total
I. Serang Drainage & Flood Control
Civil works                        -       -        5.5     5.1    12.1    10.7      8.6     7.2      2.3     1.3     28.5   24.3      52.8
Equipment & services               0.5     0.5      2.1     0.3     1.5      0.2     1.4     0.3      0.2     0.2       5.7    1.5      7.2
Base Cost                     0.5     0.5      7.6     5.4    13.6    10.9    10.0      7.5      2.5     1.5     34.2   25.8    ti4-0
Physical contingencies             0.1     0.1      1.4     1.1     2.6      2.1     1.9      1.5     0.5     0.2       6.5    5.0     11.5
Expected price increases           0.1     -        2.1     0.9     6.3      8.8     6.3     2.7      2.0     0.7      16.8    7.1     23.9
Subtotal                      0.7     0.6    11.1      7.4    22.5    15.8    18.2    11.7      5.0      2.4     57.5   37.9      95.4
Taxes on civil works la            -       -        0.5     0.4     1.0      0.7     0.8     0.5      0.2     0.1      2.5    1.7       4.2
Total                         0.7     0.6    11.6      7.8    23.5    16.5    19.0    12.2       5.2     2.5     60.Q   39.6      99.6
II. Madiun Rehabilitation - Stage IT
Civil works                        1.5     1.7      4.3     4.8     4.3      4.7     1.0     1.1     -        -       11.1   12.3      23.4
Equipment & services               0.9     0.6      1.1     0.5     0.6      0.3     0.2     0.2      -       -        2.8    1.6       4.4
Base Cost                     2.4     2.3     5.4      5.3     4.9     5.n      1.2     1.3     -        -       13.9   13.9      27.8
Physical contingencies             0.4     0.4      1.0     1.0     0.9      1.0     0.2     0.2      -       -        2.5    2.6       5.1
Expected price increases           0.2     0.1      1.5     0.8     2.3      1.3     0.7     0.5      -       -        4.7    2.7       7.4
Subtotal                      3.0     2.8     7.9      7.1     8.1     7.3      2.1     2.0     -        -       21.1   19.2      40.3
Taxes on civil works la            0.1     0.1      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.4     0.1     0.1      -       -        0.8    0.9       1.7
Total                         3.1     2.9      8.2     7.4     8.4      7.7     2.2     2.1      -       -       21.9   20.1      42.0
III. Tertiary Development
Civil works                        4.4     0.8      5.0     1.1     4.8      1.1     4.1     0.5     -        -       18.3    3.5      21.8
Equipment & services               1.1     0.5      2.2     0.4     2.2      0.4     0.2       -     -        -        5.7    1.3       7.0
Base Cost                     5.5     1.3     7.2      1.5     7.0      1.5     4.3     0.5     -        -       24.0    4.8      28.8
Physical contingencies             1.0     0.3      1.2     0.3     1.3      0.2     0.8     0.1      -       -        4.3    0.9       5.2
Expected price increases           0.4     0.1      2.1     0.3     3.2      0.4     2.7     0.2      -       -        8.4    1.0       9.4
Subtotal                      6.9     1.7    10.5      2.1    11.5     2.1      7.8     0.8     -        -       36.7    6.7      43.4
Taxes on civil works /a            0.3     0.1      0.4     0.1     0.4      0.1     0.3     -        -       -         1.4    0.3      1.7
Total                         7.2     1.8    10.9      2.2    11.9      2.2     8.1     0.8     -        -       38.1    7.0      45.1
Project subtotal             10.6     5.1    29.5    16.6    42.1    25.2    28.1    14.5       5.0      2.4    115.3   63.8    179.1
Taxes on civil works /a            0.4     0.2      1.2     0.8     1.7      1.2     1.2     0.6      0.2     0.1      4.7    2.9       7.6
PROJECT TOTAL                11.0     5.3    30.7    17.4    43.8    26.4    29.3    15.1       5.2      2.5    120.0   66.7    186.7
/a Based on 5% of civil works costs (base cost plus physical contingencies plus expected price increases).



53              ~             ANNEX I
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year and semester          Cumulative disbursement
(US$ million)
FY80
Second                               0.2
FY81
First                                1.0
Second                               6.2
FY82
First                               12.0
Second                              28.0
FY83
First                               43.8
Second                              68.0
FY84
First                               91.3
Second                             103.7
FY85
First                              115.9
Second                             116.0



- 54 -
INDONESIA,                               AbEX 1
Table 4
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Total
Project         Loan       Disburse-
Category                          Cost          amount         ments
1.    Civil Works Under Subparts 3-8 of
Part A of the project (Serang)
Base cost                            38.4
Expected price increases             14.3
Subtotal                        52.7          52.7           100
II.    Civil Works Under Part B of the
Project (MAdiumI
Base cost                            23.4
Expected price increases              6.4
Subtotal                        29.8          29.8          100
IIT.(a) Structures for Tertiary Networks
under Part C of the Project
(Tertiary)
Base cost                             8.7
Expected price increases              3.1
Subtotal                        11.8          11.8
III.(b) SiN Housing
Base cost                             3.1
Expected price increases              0.9
Subtotal                         4.0           4.0           100
IV.    Equipment
(a) for Serang                          0.2
(b) for Madiun                          0.1
(c) for tertiary development            0.1
expected price increases          0.1
Subtotal                         0.5           0.5           100
V.    Consultant Services & Training
(a) for Serang
Base cost                         1.6
Expected price increases          0.6
Subtotal                         2.2           2.2          100
(b) for Mladiun
Base cost                         2.8
Expected price increases          0.6
Subtotal                         3.4           3.4
(c) for tertiary design
Penali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean
Base cost                    2.5
Expected price increases   0.7
Subtotal                         3.2           3.2
(d) for design and engineering
additional rehabilitation
Senkareng-Pemali Atas
Base cost                       2.7
Expectcd price increases        0.8
Subtotal                         3.5           3.5
Total Consultant Services
& Training                    12.3          12.3          100
VI.    Mapping
Base cost                               0.3
Expected price increases                0.1
Subtotal                         0.4           0.4           100
VII.    Unallocated
Other civil works in Serang            21.5
Tertiary works except structures        13.4
Land acquisition                         3.2
Administrative coats                     7.3
Physical contingencies                 21.8
Vehicles provided by Government
under reserve procurement             0.4
Taxes on civil works contracts           7.6
Subtotal                        75.2           4.5
Total                          186.7         116.0 /a
/a  62Z of total project cost, equivalent to 65% of total cost net of taxes
(US$7.6 million) and reserve procurement (US$0.4 million).



-55 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
List of Vehicles and Equipment
Item                       Quantity   Unit cost   Total cost
Item             O^uantity  ~~--------  US$  -------
Serang
Pickups                                        4          12,000      48,000
Inspection vehicles /a                        10          11,000      110,000
Motorcycles                                   15           1,000       15,000
Radio, telephone and telemetering
equipment                                    -           L.S.       40,000
Surveying equipment                            -           L.S.        80,000
Electric generator                             1          25,000       25,000
Laboratory equipment                           -           L.S.        36,000
Office equipment                               -           L.S.        16,000
Subtotal                                                         370,000
Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II
Vehicles                                       4          11,000      44,000
Motorcycles                                  159           1,000      159,000
Surveying equipment                            -           L.S.       40,000
Office equipment                               -           L.S.       84,000
Subtotal                                                         327,000
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean Tertiary
Development
Vehicles                                       2          11,000      22,000
Motorcycles                                   80           1,000       80,000
Bicycles                                     100             100       10,000
Subtotal                                                         112,000
Pemali-Comal Rehabilitation Design
Surveying equipment                            -           L.S.       40,000
Office equipment                               -           L.S.        15,000
Subtotal                                                          55,000
Total                                                             8642000
/a Of which four start-up.



'0            'CCD                                              DC                                                                         CC
CC     CC            CCC            DCC                                               CC
CC      CCCC          C-C                       CC             CC'      H      C0000CC-CC-CCCCOZ 0000CC CCO00CCDCX00CCCCCC CCCCCCCCCCHVC DCCC
DC     CoC   F'    CC                 C      CC       0'0CH4C        CCCCCCCCCC      C  CC  0002             CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCOCCCC    C
CC      COCC  0         CCC          C'    CCC                CC             CC       DC     CCC          CCCCCCOOOCOCCCCCCCC<CCCOCCCC,.CCC                             C
CC CC  CC  CCC   CO      C               C      CCC      COCOCOC         OCCICCO          CCCC'CC-CC- CCC000CCCCOCCCCCCCCCCCIC1CC  CCC
CC0'  C  CC CC             H  C  CC  0CC-  CC         CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCO*CCC-CCCCCCCCCCCCCCC0CCCC
C  C  C  -'CCC   I  C  -             IC         CCC      0C,CC C    C  CCCCCCCCC  C         CC  CC'OC-CCCC CCC'C0                   CCCCDCCCCCC
C                               I                                   CCCCCCOCCCCCCCCCCCCCOC   CC
I                  CCC  -'  C  C    CC CC  000CC   0  CC   00CC  CC  -'  C  CCCCCCCCO          '0C,C0CCCCOCCC00CC0CCCCC<CC
I                                                                  I                                                      C  00CCCIC
CC C CCC C C C   I                    C C  C                                          OCCCC'CC0CCC. CCCCCDCCC                        CCC 'CCC
0  C  C, 00CC      CCC CC           C                CCC  CCC  0000       0CC   CC          CC CCCCCC-CCCCCCCCCCC-C CCC-CDCCCCCCCCCCCCCC.CC.C
I             CCCCC           C         CCCCCCCCCCC  CC   CCC   CC             CCCCC'CCCCCCCCCCCC  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC    CCCCCCCCC' CCCCCCCCCCCCC        I
CCC      CCCC-C'CC-C       CCC   CC CC           C  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC0CCC   CCC0CC   041)0CC
C  COCOC          C      CC CC               CC   CC   CC00CCCCCCCCCCCC   COO
F                        C,  o C F                                                                          ICOCCCC -
CC            CC    C,             CC   COOC CCCCC.   CCCCCCCC. COCCIC-CO          CCCCC-CCC
CO  C        CC CC  C            r                   CCC      0  C    CCC   CC  I              COCCOCCO   CCOCCCC  CCCCCCDCCCCC'OOC         0CC,  CC
CC                         CCCI           CCC   CC  C          C-  C COCCC  CCC0CC   000j CCCCC  CCCOCC
-        CCC   CC          CCC   CCC            C    C,CCC'2  CC.CCCC-CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC  CC
B                                                                                  CCC   CC             C    CCCCCCCCCC,CCCCCC0CCCCC00CCC0C   C    CC    CCC                        L
CO       C                 CC-S                  0    0CC
CCCCCCCCCCC 00000CC   CCC,   CC  00            'C
CCC                  C    C  CC   CC   CCCCC00CC-CCC0C'CC-    0  CCC       CC 'CC   C
C                    C      OCCOOC'   CCC CC   CCC   00  C                  C
C                    CC    'C CCCCCCCCCC COCCOC CCCOCCCCCOC        CC      CC
'COCCCCCCCCCC   CCC    C
C'     CCCCCC  OC<C,CCCCCC   00CC            CCC      C
CC     CCCCCCCCCCOC   C       '0  C          CCC      C
C      CC CC CO  C  C  C  CC C   C.'C   C.    C   C  C'  0   CC  C'
CC     CC   CCC  COBO   0CC  CCC'            C,
C'00CCCC    CCCCCC  'CCC              C'
C  C.CC-   0000CC    CCCCC            C        C
CCC    C    CCC,       CC                  C                                      C
CC     CC                                                        CC   DC  0      
C      C                                                         C     CC    C   C'
C      CCC'          CCC                     CC'      COCCO           OCCO                              CCC    CC                                                         C    -
15
CCCCCCCCC       CCCCC                                                                                                               C
CC                                                                                                                                                                                 CC
0 00020000CC CCOOCCCCCCC0CCCW0000    4!                                C        C'
C-CO            0                                                                         C  CCC   C    CCCC   0CCC.CC.CCC.0C,CC.CCCC                 C I        C    CC
-        00            00                     01CC                                            CCC   C           C CCC                                          CCC        C'  CC
                                              riboo00t                                                                                                        0
00CC          00CC                   CCO  CCC      C.'C0    oOOOo                                                                                C- -  C  CC  C  CC   CCCCCCCCCCOCCCCCC  1  0
CC        CC         CCCC      CCC COC'CC   CCCCO  0        CC     CCC
CC                                             C      CO  CC-CC'      CCCC,-'-C                   CC        CCC        A OCCCCCCCCCCCC. 0000C-COCCO.CO         CC,      IC
C                                                                 - ...            .-..                                            ..................                       C    CC,
CC                          0       OCCOoC          CC.'COCC                     000CCC0CC'0 CCC CC0000000 000000CC000                       C'        CC
C'          CCC'                    0      00000           0000                         0  OCCOCCO    'COOOOOOOOO0000000CCCC0O                      C          C
"     [CD 0                                                                                                                                         [o
C'   CC                    0       OOOCCO          0000                    C C CO C 0000CC  C 00000 000000000000CC000                       CC
CC      CCO      CC   CC0                    00       00000           0000                                                                                                CCC
0      000       CO                          00       OCCOOO          0000                                                                                       0        C
CCC'C-"-C000000CC 0000CCCCO 000CC               CCC     -'-'     00         C
CCCCOOCCOOOOCCOC 000.CCCCCCC CCOC-'COCCCC' 00 CCOCC0  COO         'C
* . .0.00000.. 0 0OCCCCC4COCCOCCCCCCC'CCCCCCCCO0 000CC CC
0 00000   OCCOCCOOC 00000000000000                            C
V      CC
CC
CC  CC   00         CC  CC                                           C      CC-CC    C  CC- 0                             0                         CC   C'        CCC
IC'   'C   CO            C                CC     0                                                             -      C   CCC
.  I  ..                                                               L                                                                           ''COO
0  CC CC  CCCCCO     00  CCCO        Ioo                 'C  00CC    CC  004CC        CCC CC  CC0C-JOCCCC-CCCCCOCCCCC0OC-CO                 0CC-CC  CCCC0  CC       COO
C          *          .                                                                                                                                        Coo
0         C-.    CC  000         COO                  000000    C-C 0000CC            0        CCCOCCCCCC-CCCCCCCC.CC0CC- 0000-0         0000  000   00        00CC
:pCC                                                                                                  lo
0000  0  0  CCC-CCC-     0  '0-4         00                  0 CCCC-CCC'C,CCCC-C00OC         0        CC0C-C0CCOCCCCCCCOOCC.'CCCCCCCCCCOOO OCCOCOCCOOOCC00            0  CCC
CC                0  00          lao                                                  0         0000-CCCCCOCCOO0CCCCCCCCCCCC.CCO0CCC,C 00000CC.CCOOO CO            CCC
C
C   -   I



-57 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Consulting Services /a
Expatriates                     Local consultants
Foreign        Local        Total                Local
Item                 currency       currency       cost              currency
 - - - - - - - - - - - US$/man-month - -         - - - - - - -
Billing rates
Basic salary           2,450            -           2,450                515
Social benefits          675            -             675                115
Home office costs      2,000            -           2,000                430
Overseas allowances /b  610             -             610                115
Net fee                  380            -             380                 85
Subtotal             6,115            -          6,115              1,260
Reimbursable expenses
Mobilization, travel & related expenses
International travel    530             -             530                  _
Mobilization             260            -             260                  -
Subsistence allowance    55             -              55                 25
Miscellaneous            105            -             105                 15
Subtotal               950           -             950                 40
Duty station expenses
Local duty travel          -          175             175                 25
Per diem                   -          290             290                 35
Field office costs         -          515             515                 35
Housing & utilities        -        1,500           1,500                 60
Transport /c               -          800             800                 50
Subtotal                         3,280           3,280                205
Total                7,065        3,280         10,345 /d           1,505 /e
/a  Based on recent consultants contracts.  Costs have been projected to end-
1979 prices.
/b  Field allowance for local consultants.
Ic  Includes driver, fuel and lubricants, and vehicle depreciation.
/d  May vary between US$8,500 and US$12,000 depending upon nationality and
experience.
/e  Applies to engineers and surveyors; total cost of draftsmen and technicians
is US$500/man-month.



- 58 -                           ANNEX I
Table 8
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Breakdown of Cost Estimates by Credit Category
(US$ million)
Civil
Base    Contingencies                works
Item                               cost   Physical  Price  Subtotal  taxes  Total
Civil Works
Serang
ICB (6 contracts)              38.4      7.7    14.3       60.4      3.0    63.4
Other                           14.4      2.9     7.1      24.4      1.2    25.6
Madiun                            23.4      4.7      6.4     34.5      1.7    36.2
Tertiary
Structures                       8.7     1.7      3.1      13.5      0.7    14.2
Other tertiary canal work    10.0         2.0     3.4      15.4      0.8    16.2
O&M housing                      3.1      0.6     0.9       4.6      0.2      4.8
Subtotal                  98.0    19.6    35.2    152.8        7.6   160.4
Equipment
Serang                             0.2     -        -         0.2      -        0.2
Madiun                             0.1      -       0.1       0.2      -        0.2
Tertiary                           0.1      0.1     -         0.2      -        0.2
Subtotal                   0.4      0.1      0.1       0.6     -        0.6
Consulting Services & Training
Serang                             1.6      0.1     0.6       2.3      -        2.3
Madiun construction spvn.          1.1      0.1     0.3       1.5      -        1.5
Madiun dam design                  1.7      0.2      0.3      2.2      -        2.2
Tertiary design                    2.5      0.2     0.7       3.4      -        3.4
Additional rehab. design           2.7      0.3     0.8       3.8      -        3.8
Subtotal                   9.6      0.9      2.7      13.2     -       13.2
Mapping
Additional rehab. design           0.3      0.1     0.1       0.5      -        0.5
Unallocated
Land acquisition - Serang          2.4      0.5     0.8       3.7      -        3.7
Administrative Costs
Serang                          2.9      0.3      1.1       4.3      -        4.3
Madiun                           1.3     0.1      0.3       1.7      -        1.7
Tertiary                         1.3     0.2      0.4       1.9      -        1.9
Vehicles
Serang                           0.1     -        -         0.1      -        0.1
Madiun                           0.2     -        -         0.2      -        0.2
Tertiary                         0.1     -        -         0.1      -        0.1
Subtotal                   8.3      1.1      2.6      12.0     -       12.0
Project Total            116.6    21.8    40.7    179.1         7.6   186.7



- 59 -
AN!NFy 2
INDONESIA                                                                 Table I
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Crop Budgets - Serang Drainage and Flood Control
Nonflooded Areas
Wet season                                                      Dry season
Irrigated rice   Irrigated rice
(well drained)   (poorly drained)   Rainfed rice   Irrigated  rice             Maize            Soybeans          Sorghum
Econ.    Fin.    Econ.    Fin.    Econ.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.   Fcon.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.
----------------------------------------      -----------    Present   --------------------------------------------------
Yield (ton/ha)                3.4                 3.0                1.8               3.8               1.0               0.8               1.7
Price (Rp'OOOlton)          152.0   (85.0)   152.0   (85.0)   152.0   (85.0)  152.0   (85.0)  112.0   (80.0)  174.0  (?20.0)  In3.0   (75.n)
Gross Value (Rp'OOO/ha)  516.8  (289.0)   456.0  (255.0)   273.6  (153.0)  577.6  (323.0)  112.0   (8O.n)  130.2  (176.0)  175.1  (127.5)
Cultivation                25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)   25.0   (25.0)   12.5   (12.5)    -                   -       12.5   (12.S)
Seed                        7.5    (6.0)       7.5    (6.0)       6.4    (3.4)    7.5    (6.0)    7.5    (4.8)    6.0    (6.6)    5.5    (4.5)
Urea                       25.8   (14.0)    25.8   (14.0)    12.9    (7.0)   25.8   (14.0)    9.7    (5.3)    -                   -        6.5    (3.5)
TSP                         8.7    (5.3)       8.7    (5.3)       2.9    (1.8)    8.7    (5.3)    3.5    (2.1)    2.3    (1.4)    2.3    (1.4)
Agrochemicals              13.2    (2.7)    13.2    (2.7)         6.6    (1.4)   13.2    (2.7)    -             -        3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 80.2   (53.0)    80.2   (53.0)    53.8   (38.6)   80.2   (53.0)   33.2   (24.7)   11.5    (8.6)   26.8   (21.9)
Gross Margin          436.6  (236.0)   375.8  (202.0)   219.8  (114.4)  497.4  (270.0)   78.8   (55.3)  127.7  (167.4)  I1P.3  (105.6)
Labor (man-dayslha)
Land preparation           45                 45                 40                35                 10                 5                10
Planting                   35                 35                 35                30                 10                25                10
Crop management            45                 45                 35                40                 20                30                15
Harvesting                 75                 75                  65                75                30                50                25
Total                 200                 200                175               180                70               110                60
----------------------------------------- Future without project --------------------------------------------
Yield (ton/ha)                3.6                 3.0                1.9               4.0               1.1               0.9               1.8
Price (Rp'000/ton)          160.0  (120.0)   160.n  (120.0)   160.0  (120.0)  160.0  (120.0)  134.0   (80.0)  274.0  (274.0)  1?0.0    (7S.0)
Gross Value (Rp'000/ha)  576.0  (432.0)   480.0  (360.0)   304.0  (228.0)  640.0  (480.0)  147.4   (88.0)  246.6  (246.6)  216.0  (135.0)
Cultivation                25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)   25.0   (25.0)   12.5   (12.5)    -                   -       12.5   (12.5)
Seed                        7.5    (6.0)       7.5    (6.0)       7.6    (4.0)    7.5    (6.0)    9.0    (4.8)    9.0    (9.0)    6.8    (4.5)
Urea                       31.0   (20.0)    31.0   (20.0)    15.5   (10.0)   31.0   (20.0)   11.6    (7.5)    -                   -        7.8    (5.0)
TSP                        11.3    (7.5)    11.3    (7.5)          3.8    (2.5)   11.3    (7.5)    4.5    (3.0)    3.0    (2.0)    3.n    (2.0)
Agrochemicals              13.2    (2.7)    13.2    (2.7)          6.6    (1.4)   13.2    (2.7)    -            -        3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 88.0   (61.2)    88.0   (61.2)    58.5   (42.9)   88.0   (61.2)   37.6   (27.8)   15.2   (11.6)   3(.1   (24.0)
Gross Margin          488.0  (370.8)   392.0  (298.8)   245.5  (185.1)  552.0  (418.8)  109.8   (6O.2)  231.4  (235.0)  185.9  (111.0I
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation           50                 50                 40                 35                10                 5                10
Planting                   35                 35                 35                 30               i1                 25                10
Crop management            50                 50                 40                 40                20                30                15
Harvesting                 75                 75                 65                 75                30                50                25
Total                 210                 210                180               180                70               110                60
-------------------------------------------- Future with project ---------------------------------------------
Yield (ton/ha)                3.8                 3.8                2.3               4.0               1.3               1.2               2.0
Price (Rp'000/ton)          160.0  (120.0)   160.0  (120.0)   160.0  (120.0)  160.0  (12n.0)  134.0   (80.0)  274.0  (274.0)  120.0   (75.0)
Gross Value (Rp'000/ha)  608.0  (456.0)   608.0  (456.0)   368.0  (276.0)  640.0  (480.0)  174.2  (l04.0)  328.8  (328.8)  240.0  (150.0)
Cultivation                25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)    25.0   (25.0)   25.0   (25.n)   12.5   (12.5)    -                   -       12.5   (12.5)
Seed                        7.5    (6.0)       7.5    (6.0)        5.7    (3.0)    7.5    (6.0)    9.0    (4.8)    9.0    (9.0)    6.8    (4.5)
Urea                       31.0   (20.0)    31.0   (20.0)    23.3   (15.0)   31.0   (20.0)   15.5   (10.0)    -                   -       15.5   (10.0)
TSP                        11.3    (7.5)    11.3    (7.5)          7.6    (5.0)   11.3    (7.5)    4.5    (3.0)    3.8    (2.5)    4.5    (3.0)
Agrochemicals              13.2    (2.7)    13.2    (2.7)    13.2    (2.7)   13.2    (2.7)    3.2    (0.6)    3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 88.0   (61.2)    88.0   (61.2)    74.8   (50.7)   88.0   (61.2)   44.7   (30.9)   16.0   (12.1)   39.3   (30.0)
Gross Margin          520.0  (394.8)   520.0  (394.8)   293.2  (225.3)  552.0  (418.8)  129.5   (73.1)  312.P  (316.7)  200.7  (120.0)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation           50                 45                  40                35                10                10                10
Planting                   40                 40                  35                30                10                25                In
Crop management            50                 55                  40                40                20                30                15
Harvesting                 80                 80                  70                75                35                50                30
Total                 220                 220                185               180                75               115                 65



-60 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Crop Budgets - Serane Drainage and Flood Control
Flooded Areas
Wet season                         Dry season
Rainfed rice         Maize            Soybeans         Sorghum
Econ.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.   Econ.    Fin.
-________--_--_----------- Present ---------------------------
Yield (ton/ha)                1.6               0.8              0.6               1.7
Price (Rp'000/ton)          152.0   (85.0)  112.0   (80.0)  174.0  (220.0)  103.0   (75.0)
Gross Value (Rp'000/ha)  243.2  (136.0)   89.6   (64.0)  104.4  (132.0)  175.1
Cultivation               25.0   (25.0)   12.5   (12.5)    -            -       12.5   (12.5)
Seed                        6.4    (3.4)    7.5    (4.8)    6.0    (6.6)    5.5    (4.5)
Urea                       12.9    (7.0)    9.7    (5.3)    -           -        6.5    (3.5)
TSP                         2.9    (1.8)    3.5    (2-1)    2.3    (1-4)    2.3    (1.4)
Agrochemicals               6.6    (1.4)    -         -        3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 53.8   (38.6)   33.2   (24.7)   11.5    (8.6)   26.8   (21.9)
Gross Margin          189.4   (97.4)   56.4   (39.3)   92.9  (123.4)  148.3  (105.6)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation          40                10                 5                10
Planting                  35                10                25                10
Crop management           35                20                30                15
Harvesting                 65               30                50                25
Total                 175                70               110               60
------------------- Future without project -----------------
Yield (ton/ha)                1.6               0.8              0.6               1.7
Price (Rp'000/ton)          160.0  (120.0)  134.0   (80.0)  274.0  (274.0)  120.0   (75.0)
Gross Value (Rp'000/ha)  256.0  (192.0)  107.2   (64.0)  191.8  (191.8)  204.0  (127.5)
Cultivation               25.0   (25.0)   12.5   (12.5)    -            -       12.5   (12.5)
Seed                        7.6    (4.0)    9.0    (4.8)    9.0    (9.0)    6.8    (4.5)
Urea                       15.5   (10.0)   11.6    (7.5)    -           -        7.8    (5.0)
TSP                         3.8    (2.5)    4.5    (3.0)    3.0    (2.0)    3.0    (2.0)
Agrochemicals               6.6    (1.4)    -         -        3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 58.5   (42.9)   37.6   (27.8)   15.2   (11.6)   30.1   (24.0)
Gross Margin          197.5  (149.1)   69.6   (36.2)  176.6  (180.2)  173.9  (103.5)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation          40                10                 5                10
Planting                  35                10                25                10
Crop management           40                20                30                15
Harvesting                65                30                50                25
Total                 180                70               110               60
-------------------- Future with project ----------------
Yield (ton/ha)                2.3               1.3              1.2               2.0
Price (Rp'000/ton)          160.0  (120.0)  134.0   (80.0)  274.0  (274.0)  120.0   (75.0)
Gross Value (Rp'000/ha)  368.0  (276.0)  174.2  (104.0)  328.8  (328.8)  240.0  (150.0)
Cultivation               25.0   (25.0)   12.5   (12.5)    -            -       12.5   (12.5)
Seed                       5.7    (3.0)    9.0    (4.8)    9.0    (9.0)    6.8    (4.5)
Urea                       23.3   (15.0)   15.5   (10.0)    -           -       15.5   (10.0)
TSP                         7.6    (5.0)    4.5    (3.0)    3.8    (2.5)    4.5    (3.0)
Agrochemicals              13.2    (2.7)    3.2    (0.6)    3.2    (0.6)    -
Direct Production
Cost                 74.8   (50.7)   44.7   (30.9)   16.0    (_12.1)   39.3   (30.0)
Gross Margin          293.2  (255.3)  129.5   (73.1)  312.8  (316.7)  200.7  (120.0)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation           40               10                10                10
Planting                   35               10                25                10
Crop management           40                20                30                15
Harvesting                 70               35                50                30
Total                 185                75               115               65



AFFEX 2
- 61 -                                         Table 3
INDONESIA
IRBIGATION XIV PROJECT
Crop Budgets - Madiun Rehabilitation Stage TI
Wet season                          Dry season
Irrigated rice  Irrigated  rice         Soybeans I        Sovbeans II
Econ.   Fin.    Econ.   Fin.    Econ.   Fin.    Econ.   Fin.
Present
Yield (ton/ha)                  3.2               2.8                0.6                0.4
Price (Rp'000/ton)           152.0   (85.0)  152.0   (85.0)  174.0  (220.0)  174.0  (220.0)
Gross value (Rp'000/ha)  486.4  (297.5)  425.6  (238.0)  104.4  (132.0)   69.6   (88.0)
Cultivation                 27.5   (27.5)   27.5   (27.5)    -              -         _        _
Seed                        10.0      (8.0)   10.0      (8.0)      6.0     (6.6)     6.o      (6.6)
Urea                        21.9   (11.9)   21.9   (11.9)                   -             -
TSP                          5.8      (3.5)     5.8     (3.5)    2.3       (1.4)     2.3      (1.4)
Agrochemicals                8.3      (1.6)     8.3     (1.6)      3.2     (n.6)    3.2       (0.6)
Direct production cost    73.5   (52.5)    73.5   (52.5)   11.5               (8.6)   11.5      (8.6)
Gross margin                 412.3  (245.0)  352.1  (185.5)   92.0  (123.4)   58.1   (79.4)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                 35                 10                20
Planting                    35                 30                 25                25
Crop management             35                 40                 30                30
Harvesting                  75                 75                 35                40
Total                  200                180                100                115
Future Without Project
Yield (ton/ha)                 3.0                2.6                0.5                0.4
Price (Rp'000/ton)           160.0  (120.0)  160.0  (120.0)  274.0  (274.0)  274.0  (274.0)
Gross value (Rp'O00/ha)  480.0  (360.0)  416.0  (312.0)  137.0  (137.0)  109.6  (109.6)
Cultivation                 27.5   (27.5)   27.5   (?7.5)                   -             -
Seed                        10.0     (8.0)    10.0      (8.0)    9.0       (9.0)     9.0      (9-0)
Urea                        26.4   (17.0)   26.4   (17.0)          -        -         -        -
TSP                          7.6      (5.0)     7.6     (5.0)      3.0     (2.0)     3.0      (2.0)
Agrochemicals                9.8      (2.0)    9.8      (2.0)    3.2       (0.6)      3.2     (0.6)
Direct production cost    81.3   (59.5)   81.3   (5q.5)   15.2   (11.6)   15.2   (11.6)
Gross margin                 398.7  (300.5)  334.7  (252.5)  121.8  (125.4)   94.4   (98.0)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                 35                 10                20
Planting                    35                 30                 25                25
Crop management             35                 40                 30                30
Harvesting                  75                 75                 35                40
Total                  200                180                100                115
Future WTith Project
Yield (ton/ha)                  3.4               3.0                0.8                0.6
Price (Rp'000/ton)           180.0  (120.0)  180.0  (120.0)  274.0  (274.0)  274.0  (274.0)
Gross value (Rp'000/ha)  612.0  (408.0)  540.0  (360.0)  219.2  (219.2)  164.4  (164.4)
Cultivation                 27.5   (27.5)   27.5   (27.5)                   -             -
Seed                         7.5      (6.0)     7.5     (6.0)      9.0     (9.n)      9.0     (9.0)
Urea                        31.0   (20.0)   31.0   (20.0)    -              -         -
TSP                          9.8      (6.5)     9.9      (6.5)     4.5     (3.0)    4.5       (3.0)
Agrochemicals               13.2      (2.7)    13.2     (2.7)    5.1       (1.0)      5.1     (1.0)
Direct production cost    89.0   (62.7)   89.0   (62.7)   18.6   (13.0)   18.6   (13.0)
Gross margin                 455.0  (345.3)  391.0  (297.3)  200.6  (206.2)  145.8  (151.4)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                 55                 20                 25
Planting                    35                 30                 30                25
Crop management             40                 40                 30                30
Harvesting                  80                 80                 40                40
Total                  210                185                120                120



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA                                             Table 4
IRRIGATION )IV PROJECT
Crop Budgets - Tertiary Development Areas
Pemali-Comal
Wet season           Dry season                       Dry season
Irrigated   Rice    Irrigated   Rice              Maize                Soybeans
Econ.       Fin.      Econ.       Fin.      Econ.       Fin.    Econ.       Fin.
Present
Yield (t/ha)                    3.2                   3.2                   1.2                 0.7
Price (Rp '000/ton)          152.0       83.0)      152.n    ( 85.0)    112.0    ( 80.0)   174.0    (220.0)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   486.4    (272.0)    486.4          (272.0)    134.4    ( 96.0)   121.8    (154.0)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 25.0)       25.0       25.0)      12.5    ( 12.5)    12.5    ( 12-5)
Seed                        10.0    ( 8.0)        1-'.0    ( 8.0)        7.5    ( 4.8)        6.0     ( 6.6)
Urea                        12 9    (  7.0)       12.9    (  7.0)        9.7     (  S.3)       -          -
TSP                          2.9    (  1.8)        2.9    C  1.8)        3.5    (  2 ')       2.3    (  1.4)
Agrochemicals                6.6    (  1.4)        6.6    (  1-4)         -          _        3.2    (  0.6)
Direct production cost        57.4      ( 43-2)     57.4    ( 43-2)       33.2    ( 24-7)    24.0    ( 21.1)
Gross margin                 429.0    (228.8)    429.0    (228.8)    101.2    ( 71-3)    97.8    (132.9)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    10                   20
Planting                    35                    30                    in                   25
Crop management             35                    4n                    20                   30
Harvesting                  75                    75                    30                   40
Total                   200                   180                    70                  115
Future Without Project
Yield (t/ha)                    3.2                   3.2                  1.2                  0.7
Price (Rp '000/ton)          160.0    (120.0)      160.0    (120.0)      134.0    ( 80.0)   274.0    (274.0)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   512.0    (394.0)    517.0         (384-0)    160.8    ( 96.0)   191.8    (191.8)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 25.0)       25.0    ( 2S.0)       t2.5    ( 12.5)    12.5    ( 12.5)
Seed                        10.0    ( 8.0)        10.0    ( 8.0)         9.0    ( 4.8)        9.0    ( 0.0)
Urea                        18.6    ( 12.0)       18.6    ( 12.0)       12.4    ( 8.0)         -          -
TSP                          4.5    ( 3-0)         4.5    (  3.0)        6.0    (  4.0)       3.8    (  2.5)
Agrochemicals                9.8    ( 2.0)         9.8    (  2.0)        6.4    (  1.3)       3.2    (  0.6)
Direct production cost        67.9    ( 50.0)       67.9     ( 90.0)      46.3    ( 30.6)    28.5    ( 24.6)
Gross margin                 441.1     (334.0)    444.1      (334.0)     114.5    ( 65.4)   163.3    (167.2)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    10                   20
Planting                    35                    30                    1n                   25
Crop management             35                    40                    20                   30
Harvesting                  75                    75                    30                   40
Total                   200                   180                   70                  115
Future With Project
vield (t/ha)                    3.6                  3.4                   1.5                  1.0
Price (Rp '000/ton)           160.0    (120.0)    160.n    (120.0)    134.0    ( 80.0)   274.0    (274.n)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   576.0    (432.0)    544.0    (408.0)    201.0    (120.0)   274.0    (274.0)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 2S.0)       75.0       2 25.0)    12.5    ( 12.5)    12.5       ( 12.5)
Seed                         7.5    ( 6.0)         7.5    ( 6.0)         9.0    (  4.8)       9.0    ( 9.0)
Urea                        23.3    ( 15.0)       23.3    ( 15.0)       15.5    ( 10.0)        -          -
TSP                         11.3    ( 7.5)        t1.3    (  7.5)        7.6    ( 5.0)        4.5    (  3.0)
Agrochemicals               13.2    ( 2.7)        13.2    (  2.7)        9.6    (  1.9)       5.1     (  1.0)
Direct production cost         90.3    C 56.2)      80.3    ( 56.2)       54.2    ( 34.2)    31.1       ( 25.5)
Gross margin                 497.7    (375-8)    463.7    (351-.)    146.8    ( 85.8)   242.9           (248.5)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    15                   25
Planting                    40                    30                    10                   25
Crop management             45                    40                    25                   30
Harvesting                  80                    80                    30                   40
Total                   220                   185                    80                 120



- 63 -                                           ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Crop Budgets - Tertiary Development Areas
Pekalan-Sampean
Wet season           Dry season                       Dry season
Irrigated   Rice    Irrigated   Rice              Maize                Soybeans
Econ.       Fin.      Econ.       Fin.     Econ.       Fin.    Econ.        Fin.
Present
Yield (t/ha)                   3.6                   3.6                   1.5                  0.7
Price (Rp '000/ton)          152.0    ( 85.0)    152.0    ( 85.0)    112.0    ( 80.0)   174.0    (220.0)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   547.2    (306.0)    547.2    (306.0)    168.0    (120.0)   121.8    (154.0)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 25.0)       25.0    ( 25.0)       12.5    ( 12.5)    12.5    ( 12.5)
Seed                        10.0    (  8.0)       10.0    ( 8.0)         7.5    (  4.8)      6.0    (  6.6)
Urea                        12.9    (  7.0)       12.9    (  7.0)        9.7    (  5.3)        -          -
TSP                          2.9    (  1.8)        2.9    (  1.8)        3.5    (  2.1)       2.3    (  1.4)
Agrochemicals                6.6    (  1.4)        6.6    (  1.4)         -          -        3.2    ( 0.6)
Direct production cost        57.4    ( 43.2)       57.4    ( 43.2)       33.2    ( 24.7)    24.0    ( 21.1)
Gross margin                 489.8    (262.8)    489.8    (262.8)    134.8    ( 95.3)    97.8    (132.9)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    15                  20
Planting                    35                    30                    10                  25
Crop management             35                    40                    25                  30
Harvesting                  75                    75                    30                  40
Total                   200                   180                  115                  115
Future Without Project
Yield (t/ha)                    3.6                  3.6                   1.5                  0.7
Price (Rp '000/ton)          160.0    (120.0)    160.0    (120.0)    134.0    ( 80.0)   274.0    (274.0)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   576.0    (432.0)    576.0    (432.0)    201.0    (120.0)   191.8    (191.8)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 25.0)       25.0    ( 25.0)       12.5    ( 12.5)    12.5    ( 12.5)
Seed                        10.0    ( 8.0)        10.0    ( 8.0)         9.0    (  4.8)      9.0    (  9.0)
Urea                        18.6    ( 12.0)       18.6    ( 12.0)       12.4    (  8.0)       -          -
TSP                          4.5    (  3.0)        4.5    ( 3.0)         6.0    ( 4.0)       3.8    ( 2.5)
Agrochemicals                9.8    (  2.0)        9.8    (  2.0)        6.4    (  1.3)       3.2    ( 0.6)
Direct production cost        67.9    ( 50.0)       67.9    ( 50.0)       46.3    ( 30.6)    28.5    ( 24.6)
Gross margin                 508.1    (382.0)    508.1    (382.0)    154.7    ( 89.4)   163.3    (167.2)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    15                  20
Planting                    35                    30                    10                  25
Crop management             35                    40                    25                  30
Harvesting                  75                    75                    30                  40
Total                   200                   180                  115                  115
Future With Project
Yield (t/ha)                   4.0                   3.8                   1.8                  1.8
Price (Rp '000/ton)          160.0    (120.0)    160.0    (120.0)    134.0    ( 80.0)   274.0    (274.0)
Gross value (Rp '000/ha)   640.0    (480.0)    608.0    (456.0)    241.2    (144.0)   274.0    (274.0)
Cultivation                 25.0    ( 25.0)       25.0    ( 25.0)       12.5    ( 12.5)    12.5    ( 12.5)
Seed                         7.5    (  6.0)        7.5    (  6.0)        9.0    (  4.8)      9.0    (  9.0)
Urea                        23.3    ( 15.0)       23.3    ( 15.0)       15.0    ( 10.0)        -         -
TSP                         11.3    (  7.5)       11.3    (  7.5)        7.6    (  5.0)      4.5    (  3.0)
Agrochemicals               13.2    (  2.7)       13.2    (  2.7)        9.6    (  1.9)       5.1    (  1.0)
Direct production cost        80.3    ( 56.2)       80.3    ( 56.2)       54.2    ( 34.2)    31.1    ( 24.5)
Gross margin                 559.7    (423.8)    527.1    (399.8)    187.0    (109.8)   242.9    (249.5)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Land preparation            55                    35                    20                   25
Planting                    40                    30                    10                  25
Crop management             45                    40                    25                   30
Harvesting                  80                    80                    35                  40
Total                   220                   185                   90                  120



- 64 -                                             ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Farm Budgets - Serant River
0.2 ha farm              0.4 ha farm              0.7 ha farm
Incremental values                      p      WIO      W        P      W/O      W         P     W/o      W
------------------- Serang - Nonf looded Areas--------------------
Cropped Area (ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                     0.12   0.12   0.12       0.24   0.24   0.24       0.42   0.42   0.42
Rainfed rice                       0.08   0.08   0.08       0.16   0.16   0.16        0.28   0.28   0.28
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                     0.04   0.04   0.04       0.06   0.06   0.06       0.09   0.09   0.09
Maize                              0.02   0.02   0.03       0.04   0.04   0.04        0.07   0.07   0.07
Soybeans                           0.01   0.01   0.01       0.01   0.01   0.01       0.02   0.02   0.02
Sorghum                            0.06   0.06   0.08       0.11   0.11   0.16       0.18   0.18   0.25
Total Cropped Areas               0.33   0.33   0.36       0.51   0.61   0.66        1.06   1.06   L.13
Cropping intensity (2)                165    165    ISO         153    153    165        151    151    161
Crop Production (kg)
Rice                                  692    718    800    1,308  1,360  1,520    2,232  2,323  2,600
Maize                                  20      22      39        40     44      52        70      77     91
Soybeans                                8       9      12         8      9      12        16      18     24
Sorghum                               102    108    160        187    198    320         306    324    500
Farm Incomes (Rp'000)
Gross value of production            69.8   98.5  113.7    130.2  184.0  213.8    221.8  314.2  363.4
Production costs, excl. labor        13.5   15.3   17.3       25.6   29.1   32.6        43.7   49.7   55.3
Hired labor (harvesting) ta           7.1   10.5   11.5       13.3   19.5   21.9        22.8   33.5   37.4
Net Value of Production           49.2   72.7   84.9       91.3  135.4  159.1    155.3  231.0  270.7
Taxes lb                              1.5    1.5    3.4         3.0    3.0    6.8        5.3    5.3   11.8
Payments to landlord /c              24.6   36.4   42.5       45.7   67.7   79.7        77.7  115.5  135.4
Net Incomes
Owner-operator                       47.7   71.2   81.5       88.3  132.4  152.5    150.0  225.7  258.9
Sharecropper                         24.6   36.3   42.4       45.6   67.7   79.6        77.6  115.5  135.3
Off-farm income Id                   75.0   75.0   75.0       65.0   65.0   65.0        55.0   55.0   55.0
Total Net Incomes
Owner-operator                      122.7  146.2  156.5    153.3  197.4  217.5    205.0  280.7  313.9
Sharecropper                         99.6  111.3  117.4    110.6  132.7  144.6    132.6  170.5  190.3
Total labor requirements /e
(man-days)                             51      53     56        97    101    108         167    173    184
--------------- Serang - Flooded Areas --------------------
Cropped Area (ha)
Wet Season
Rainfed rice                        0.2    0.2    0.2        0.4    0.4    0.4         0.7    0.7    0.7
Dry Season
Maize                              0.05   0.05   0.05       0.10   0.10   0.10       0.15   0.15   0.15
Soybeans                           -      -       0.04      -       -      0.06      -       -       0.10
Sorghum                            0.05   0.05   0.07       0.06   0.06   0.12       0.10   0.10   0.25
Total Cropped Areas               0.30   0.30   0.35       0.56   0.56   0.68       0.95   0.95   1.20
Cropping intensity (2)                150    150    180        140    140    170         136    136    170
Crop Production (kg)
Rice                                  320    320    460        640    640    920    1,120  1,120  1,610
Maize                                  40      40      65        80     80    130        120    120    195
Soybeans                                -       -      48         -      -      72         -       -    120
Sorghum                                85      85    140        102    102    240        170    170    500
Farm  Incomes (Rp'000)
Gross value of production            36.8   48.0   84.1       68.5   90.9  158.5    117.6  156.8  279.2
Production costs, excl. labor        10.1   11.2   14.3       19.2   21.4   27.7        32.9   36.6   48.8
Hired labor (harvesting) Ia           3.3    4.6    6.6        6.5    9.2   13.2        11.4   16.1   23.2
Net Value of Production           23.4   32.2   63.2       42.8   60.3  117.6        73.3  104.1  207.2
Taxes Lb                              1.5    1.5    3.4         3.0    3.0    6.8        5.3    5.3   11.8
Payments to landlord /c              11.7   16.1   31.6       21.4   30.2   58.8        36.7   52.1  103.6
Net Incomes
Owner-operator                       21.9   30.7   59.8       39.8   57.3  110.8        68.0   98.8  L95.4
Sharecropper                         11.7   16.1   31.6       21.4   30.1   58.8        36.6   52.0  103.6
off-farm income /d                   75.0   75.0   75.0       65.0   65.0   65.0        60.0   60.0   60.0
Total Net Incomes
Owner-operator                       96.9  105.7  134.8    104.8  122.3  175.8    128.0  158.8  255.4
Sharecropper                         86.7   91.1  106.6       86.4   95.1  123.8        96.6  112.0  163.6
Total labor requirements /e
(man-days)                             42      43     50        81      83      96       139    143    168



- 65 -                                            ANNuX 2
Table 7
IUEGATIOW 13V YJXCT
far   ,4dea-  - endice ad Tertiar  Are.
0.2 ha fat.              0.4 ha fa..              0.7 h. fare
Oetr_ataaolrio-.                        P     W/O      0         P      W/O     W         P      W/O 0
--------------~~----- ----      M d 3 - -tU   -----------------------------
CIroed Area (bh)
WIt Secor
Irrigated rite                     0.2    0.2    0.2         0.4    0.4    0.4        0.7    0.7    0.7
DrY Scram
Irrigated rite                    0.09   0.08   0.10        0.16   0.14   0.17       D.26   0.23   0.20
Orybete.                           0.09   0.09   0.09       0.26   7.16   0.17       0.26   0.26   0.28
icybaot I0                        0.12   0.21   0.11        0.20   0.20   0.20       0.32   0.32   0.52
Total Cro,erd Arets               0.49   0 48   0.50       0.92   0.90   0.94       1.54   1.51   1.58
Crorpprig iaci..ty  27)               245    240    250        230    225    235        220    225    225
Care Prodccilto (kg)
Cibe                                  ego    too     9ao    1,720  1,564  1,070    2,966  2.698  3,220
coytnee ...                            56      45     72        96      00    136       156    130    274
Soybear . 21                           04      44     66        s0      80    120       128    128    192
Fate Ootoaa (Qp'006)
Groat ealor or poodoriior  97.4  221.4  053.4    105.6  231.5  294.5    010.6  394.4  500.4
1^ru~~~~~~~~~~-. In" * 49D
Pr tc-oteio  orate,   r.0.6c.........or 26.9   19.0   21 4    32 5   3  3   40. 5      55.4   621:   69.2
Hired labor fhrreetl        . /e      9.1   10.6   24.2       17.6   22.5   06.9       30.3   38.0   46.4
Nta  Valce of Prdocttie           71.4   90.8  119.9    235.5  172.7  227.1    229.1  293.4  384.8
TaiaLb                                12.5    1.5    5.4       3.0    3.0    6.9        5.3    5.3   11.9
Paysetie it  Otedlord /c             35.7   45.4   60.0       97.8   86.4  113.6    114.5  146.7  292.4
P:t        t.I  .dlI   /              3.    4           0
o-r-opert                            69.9   89.3  116. 1.5    132.5   169.7  020.3    223.8  285.1  373.0
Shoreorepp.r                         35.7   05.4   59.9       67.7   86.3  113.5    114.5  146.7  192.4
Off-fare   ret-   Id                 70.0   70.0   70.0       60.0   6.0   60.0        45.0   45.0   45.0
Total Net Octeaea
o    ..er-e..raIor                  139.9  159.5  186.5    102.5  229.7  280.3    268.9  530.1  418.0
5httettopreo                        105.7  215.4  229.9    127.7  146.3  175.5    2.5 5  192.7  237.4
Total tahoeretqoirteeeeia I
(ear-da.t)                             78     76      04       148    146    160        250    244    271
-                          Peen-----------------  li-C -tl. ________
Corr,ed Area (ha)
net Seater
Irrigated rite                      0.2    0.2    0.2        0.4    0.4    0.4        0.7    0.7    0.7
irr1iged rot.                     0.16   0.16    0.16      0.29    0.26    0.28      0.45    0.45   5.65
Ileite                            0.06   0.08   0.06        0.21     0.11   0.11     0.27   0.27   O.07
ioybe ao                           2.03   0.03   0.035   0                            0     0.09   0.08
Trial CIo-ced Aorta               0.45   0.45   0.45       0.84   0.84   0.84       2.40   1.40   1.40
Crppice i-teraty  (X)                 225    225    229        210    210    210        200    200    200
C.oo P-od-tcten i23)
Rite                                1,112112 1.2   1,264    2,096  2,096  2,392    3,540  3,540  4,050
teiaie                                 72      72     90       232     132    165       204    204    255
Soybe-ea                              21      22      30        35      35     50        56      56     S0
Fare IDcn  (4t'000)
GrenI  ralor of p-od-ctiec          104.e  245.0  267.2    196.4  271.7  313.9    329.5  456.5  528.3
PrId eicor reate, ear. IObtr         17.7      6   23.0       3.1   38.6   45.3        55.6   60.7   72.5
Hl-rrd Inhor b re- cieg) /e          11.3   16.0   28.2       20.4   30.2   34.6       36.2   51.0   58.3
eit VO.e of peodoctice            75.9  208.4  125.9    241.9  202.9  236.2    237.8  340.t  397.5
Teee- /b                              15 'S2.5    3.4          3.0    5.0    6.9        5.3    5.3   21.8
Parted  to lodlOord Ls               38.0   54.2   63.0       72.0  101.5  118.1      129.9  270.4  198.8
NeWI Ino_
Ner-operoteor                        74.4  206.9  222.5    138.9   l99.9  229.4    232.5  335.5  385.7
Sh-e-opp-er                          37.9   54.2   62.9       70.9  202.9  120.2    218.9  170.6  298.7
off-f-no  I e _  L                    70.0 70.0   70.o        60.0   60.0   60.0       45.0   45.0   45.0
Scr-op   ien                        144.6  276.9   9. 192    198.9  259.9  289.4    270.5  503.9  050.7
Saeo--rpqro                         107.9  I22.2  232.9    130.9  161.4  279.1    163.9  225.4  263.7
Teil taboo oar.qiree.n  /e
(ea-da.a)                              77     77      82       144    144    153        242    242    258
------------------------                     ---------------- - ____________
Ceoered Area (he)
WIc Sete
Iroi8aisted rita                  0.20   0.20   0.20         0.4    0.4    0.4        0.7    0.7    0.7
cOrv Settee
Irr4ttged rite                    0.15   0.15   0.15       0.27   0.27   0.27        0.43   0.43   0.43
eooae                              0.07   0.07   0.07       0.12   0.12   0.22       0.20   0.00   0.20
Soybh.D.                           0.05   0.05   0.05       0.09   0.09   0.         04   0.14   0.26
T-i1i Croe-ed Ar-ma               0.47   0.47   0.47       0.88   0.88   0.88       1.47    1.47   1.47
Croppieg i-ee..ity (X)                235    235    235        220    220    220        210    210    210
Cece Peeoducile 7Ae)
HtC.                                1,290  1,290  1.370    2,466  2,466  2,626    4,154  4.254   ,4,34
8.0cr                                 205    105    226        100    10O    216        300    300    360
Seyb.es                                35      35     50        63      63     90        98      98    140
Yet. Ic-ere (4R-OO)
Gmrna nIne of pordortirn            125.8  272.8  20.2       237.9  527.6  357.1    398.7  549.3  599.2
P-o-roi    tree.., nti. labee        17.9   20.8   23.3       35.8   39.4   06,2       56.7   66.2   73.9
eloed Otbhr (hoeoaetiic) /           1 23.2   18.6   19.7     25.2   35.5   37.0       42.6   59.9   63.8
Cr8 Value of P-d-ctin           94.7  133.3  245.2    278.9  252.7  275.2    299.6  423.4  661.5
Ta.re 1!                              1.5    1.l    3.0        3.0    3.0    6.8        5.3    5.53  2L.
PayereaI  to loid-ord 74             07.4   69.7   72.6       69.5  226.0  237.6    249.8  212.7  230.9
WIt IncIt-
O nce-operator                       93.2  131.8  141.c    175.9  249.7  062.0    294.3  428.2  469.7
Sharetroppar                         47.3   66.6   72.6       89.4  126.3  237.6    149.8  211.7  230.7
Off-Oars  tc... Id                   70.0   70.0    0.0       60.0   60.0   60.0       45.0   05.0   45.0
Trial Nenitoeeeo
creer-oeceacor                      163.2  201.8  221.8    235.9  309.7  326.4    339.3  463.1  494.7
Shar-ro-pppeo                       17.3  136.6  142.6    249.6  166.3  197.6    194.0  256.7  275.7
Total Inhor rescireroecIs /
_4er-day.)                             81     81      84       153    153    160        257    257    268
14 22  of  goot caine of prod-tiio .
7b  eceed or OPtrA trgee ed vetet tne rate.p rhe otre.
/c  501 of ret ral.e of  -rod-tilo.
Id  eated or Br1k i-toiee  ad euroryt.
4  Coapored feon Otbhr reqolted    pe  Clop BOdgete.



- 66 -                                      ANNEX 2
- 66 -                          ~~~~~~TableS8
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Rent Recovery
0.2 ha farm           0.4 ha farm            0.7 ha far-
Owner-    Share-      Owner-       Share     Owner-      S ...,re
Incremental values                        operator   cropper   operator   cropper   operator   cropper
---------------- Serang - Nonflooded Areas -----------------
Gross value of production                   15.2        7.6        29.8       14.9        49.2       24.6
Less:  Cash production costs                 2.0         1.0        3.5        1.8         5.6        2.8
Harvesting costs                      1.0        0.5         2.4        1.2         3.9       2.0
Equals:  Net cash income                    12.2        6.1        23.9       11.9        39.7       19.8
Less:  Imputed value of family labor         1.7        1.7         3.9        3.9         6.1        6.1
Imputed value of management           0.6       0.3          1.2       0.6         2.0        1.0
Allowance for risk                    3.7        1.8         7.2        3.6        11.9       6.0
General taxes                         1.5        0.8         3.0        1.5         4.9       2.5
Equals:  Project rent                        4.7        1.5         8.6        2.3        14.8        4.2
Rent as 2 of net cash income                38.5       24.6        36.0       19.3        37.3       21.2
Land tax                                     1.0        -           2.0        -           3.5        -
Water charge (EMM)                           0.9        0.4         1.7        0.9         3.0        1.5
Total Direct Charges                    1.9        0.4         3.7        0.9         6.5        1.5
Rent recovery index (%)                     40.4       26.7        43.0       39.1        43.9       35.7
Farm income per capita (US$)                45.5       34.2        63.3       42.1        91.3       55.4
----------------- Serang - Flooded Areas-------------------
Gross value of production                   36.1       18.1        67.6       33.8       122.4       61.2
Less:  Cash production costs                 3.1        1.6         6.3        3.2        12.2        6.1
Harvesting costs                      2.0        1.0        4.0         2.0         7.1       3.6
Equals:  Net cash income                    31.0       15.5        57.3       28.6       103.1       51.5
Less:  Imputed value of family labor         3.9        3.9         7.2        7.2        13.8       13.8
Imputed value of management           1.6       0.8         2.9        1.4         5.2        2.6
Allowance for risk                    9.3        4.7        17.2       8.6        30.9       15.5
General taxes                         3.6        1.8        6.8         3.4       12.2        6.1
Equals:  Project rent                       12.6        4.3        23.2        8.0        41.0       13.5
Rent as 2 of net cash income                40.6       27.7        40.5       28.0        39.8       26.2
Land tax                                     1.0        -           2.0        -           3.5        -
Water charge CORM)                           0.9        0.4         1.7        0.9         3.0        1.5
Total Direct Charges                    1.9        0.4         3.7        0.9         6.5        1.5
Rent recovery index CE)                     15.1        9.3        15.9       11.3        15.9       11.1
Farm income per capita (US$)                39.2       31.0        51.1       36.0        74.3       47.6
------------------------- Madiun ------------___________
Gross value of production                   34.0       17.0        63.0       31.5       106.0       53.0
Less:  Cash production costs                 2.4        1.2         4.2        2.1         7.1        3.6
Harvesting costs                      2.5        1.3        4.2        2.1         7.5        3.8
Equals:  Net cash income                    29.1       14.5        54.6       27.3        91.4       45.6
Less:  Imputed value of family labor /a   4.4           4.4         7.7        7.7        14.9       14.9
Imputed value of management /b        1.4       0.7         2.7        1.4         4.6        2.3
Allowance for risk /c                 8.7       4.4        16.4        8.2        27.4       13.7
General taxes /d                      3.4        1.7        6.3        3.2        10.6        5.3
Equals:  Project rent                       11.2        3.3        21.5        6.8        33.9       24.3
Rent as Z of net cash income                38.5       22.8        39.4       24.9        37.1       53.3
Land tax /e                                  1.0        -           2.0        -           3.5        -
Water charge (ORM) /f                        0.9        0.4         1.7        0.9         3.0        1.5
Total Direct Charges                    1.9        0.4         3.7        0.9         6.5        1.5
Rent recovery index (%)                     17.0       12.1        17.2       13.2        19.2        6.2
Farm income per capita (US$)                54.3       37.8        81.7       50.5       121.8       69.1



67                                           ANNEX 2
Table 8
Page 2 of 2
Rent Recovery (Continued)
0.2 ha farm            0.4 ha farm            0.7 ha farm
Owner-    Share-       Owner-      Share      Owner-      Share
Incremental values                        operator   cropper   operator   cropper   operator   cropper
---------- Tertiary Development - Pekalan-Sampean ----------
Gross value of production                    15.4        7.7        29.5       14.8        49.9       25.0
Less:  Cash production costs                  2.4        1.2         4.7        2.4         7.8        3.9
Harvesting costs                      1.1        0.6         2.3        1.2         4.0        2.0
Equals:  Net cash income                     11.9        5.9        22.5       11.2        38.1       19.1
Less:  Imputed value of family labor          1.7        1.7         3.9        3.9         6.1        6.1
Imputed value of management           0.6        0.3         1.1        0.6         1.9        1.0
Allowance for risk                    3.6        1.8         6.8        3.4        11.4        5.7
General taxes                         1.5        0.8         3.0        1.5         5.0        2.5
Equals:  Project rent                         4.5        1.3         7.7        1.8        13.7        3.8
Rent as % of net cash income                 37.8       22.0        34.2       16.1        36.0       19.9
Land tax                                      1.0        -           2.0        -           3.5        -
Water charge (O&M)                            0.9        0.4         1.7        0.9         3.0        1.5
Total Direct Charges                    1.9        0.4         3.7        0.9         6.5         1.5
Rent recovery index (Z)                      42.2       30.8        48.1       50.0        47.4       39.5
Farm income per capita (US$)                 61.7       41.5        95.7       57.5       144.1       80.2
---------- Tertiary Development - Pemali-Comal ------------
Gross value of production                    22.1       11.1        42.2       21.1        71.8       35.9
Less:  Cash production costs                  2.4        1.2         4.7        2.4         7.8        3.9
Harvesting costs                      2.2        1.1         4.2        2.1         7.3        3.7
Equals:  Net cash income                     17.5       8.8         33.3       16.6        56.7       28.3
Less:  Imputed value of family labor          2.2        2.2         5.0        5.0         8.8        8.8
Imputed value of management           0.9        0.4         1.7        0.8         2.8        1.4
Allowance for risk                    5.3        2.6        10.0        5.0        17.0        8.5
General taxes                         2.2        1.1         4.2        2.1         7.2        3.6
Equals:  Project rent                         6.9        2.5        12.4        3.7        20.9        6.0
Rent as X of net cash income                 39.4       28.4        37.2       22.2        36.9       21.2
Land tax                                      1.0        -           2.0        -           3.5        -
Water charge (O&M)                            0.9        0.4         1.7        0.9         3.0        1.5
Total Direct Charges                    1.9        0.4         3.7        0.9         6.5        1.5
Rent recovery index (%)                      27.5       16.0        29.8       24.3        31.1       25.0
Farm income per capita (US$)                 56.1       38.7        84.3       51.8       125.5       70.9
/a  At Rp 550/day based on total labor requirements.
/b  5% of net cash income.
/c  30% of net cash income.
/d  10% of gross value of production
/e  Based on Rp 5,000/ha IPEDA charges.
/f  Based on Rp 3,500/ha water charges.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Serang Drainage and Flood Control
Crop Production - Physical Inputs
Present                                                Future without project                                            Future with project
Wet season                     Drv season                      Wet season                      Drv season                       Wet season                     Dry season
Irrigated  Rainfed  Irrigated                                  Irrigated  Rainfed  Irrigated                                   Irrigated  Rainfed  Irrigated
rice       rice       rice      Maize  Soybeans  Sorghum    rice           rice       rice      Maize  Soybeans  Sorghum    rice           rice        rice      :aize  Soybeans  Sorghum
Nonflooded Areas
Cultivation (animal day)         20         20         20         10         -       10          20         20         20         10         -       10          20          20         20        10          -        10
Seed (kg)                        30         40         30         60        30       50          30         40         30         60        30       50          30          30         30        60         30        50
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                          200        100        200         75         -       50         200        100        200         75         -       50         200        150         200       100         -        100
TSP                            75         25         75         30        20       20          75         25         75         30        20       20          75         50          75        30        25         30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (l)                2          1          2         -       0.5        -            2          1          2         -       0.5        -            2          2           2       0.5       0.5          -
Zinc phosphide (gin)          100         50        100          -         -        -         100         50        100          -         -        -         100        100         100         -         -
Interest (Z month)
Flooded Areas
Cultivation (animal day)          -         20           -        10         -       10           -         20           -        10         -       10           -          20          -        10          -        10
Seed (kg)                         -         40          -         60        30       50           -         40          -         60        30       50           -          30          -        60        30         50
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                            -        100          -         75         -      50            -        100          -        75          -      50            -        150           -       100         -        100
TSP                             -         25          -        30         20      20            -         25          -        30        20       20            -         50           -        30        25         30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                -          1          -         -       0.5        -            -          I                            0.5        -            -          2          -       0.5        0.5         -
Zinc phosphide (gm)             -         50          -         -         -        -            -         50          -         -         -        -            -        100           -         -         -         -
Interest (I month)
50>4



-69 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 10
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
Crop Production Costs - Physical Inputs
(Madiun Stage II)
Future with-          Future
Present       out project        with project
Soy-             Soy-               Soy-
Paddy  beans    Paddy  beans        Paddy  beans
Cultivation (animal-day)              22      -        22      -          22      -
Seed (kg)                             40     30        40     30          30     30
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                               170      -       170      -         200      -
TSP                                 50     20        50     20          65     30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                   1.3    0.5      1.5    0.5         2.0    0.8
Zinc phosphide (gm)                -       -        50      -          100     -
Interest (Z month)                   2.0    2.0       2.0    2.0         1.0    1.0



IFT)ONES IA
IRRICATIOD YIV PROJECT
Crop Production Costs - Physical Inputs
(Tertiary Development)
------------- Present --------    ------ Future without project -------    ------- Future with project -------
Wet season           Dry season            Wet season             Yry season             TTet season          nry season
Paddy      Paddy  Corn  Soyaheans          Paddy      Paddy    Corn  Soyabeans           Paddy      Paddy  Corn  Foyabeans
Cultivation                  20         20     10         10            20         20        10        1n             20         2n      10        10
(animal-day)
Seed (kg)                   40          40     60        30             40         40        60        30             40         4n      60        3n 0
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                   100        100      75         -            120         80        80         -           150         150    100          -
TSP                     25         25      30        20             30         30        40        25             74         75      50        30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1.)           1          1      -         0.5            1.5        1         1         0.5            2          2       1.5       0.8
Zinc phosphide (gm)       50         50       -         -             50          -         -         -            1o0        100       -         -
Interest (% month)            2          2      2          2             2          2         2         2              1          1       2          1
X X
I- Ns



- 71 -                                                                       Tablet?
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC BEIEFITS PEP RFCTAPE
Project Area
Fare-gate     Cross value/ Production  lross margin/   Gross nargin/   Inputed   Total farm
Area      Yield          price            ha         cost/ha        ha               ha         labor cost    income
('000 ha)   (ton/ha)   (P.p '00C/ton)   ------------ (Rp '0)  _______              ----------- (Rp billion)       
Serang Drainage and Flood Control
Fon-Flooded Area
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated rice (well drained)                  11.1       3.6           160           576.0        P8.0         488.0              5.4           n.8          4.6
Irrigated rice (poorly drained)                 7.4       3.0           160           480.0        68.0         372.n              2.9           0.5          2.4
Rainfed rice                                   12.6       1.9           160           304.0         5R.5        245.5              3.1           0.8          2.3
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                                 4.3        4.0           160          720.0         88.0         632.n              2.7           0.3         2.4
Maize                                           3.5       1.1           134           147.4         37.6        ioq.8              n.4           0.1          0.3
Soybeans                                        1.0 '      .9           274          246.6         15.2         731.4              n.2           -           n.2
Sorghon                                        8.1        1.8           120          216.0         30.1         189.9              1.5           0.3          1.2
Total                                    46.7                                                                               17.9           2.8         13.1
Cropping Intensity:                              156%
Future With Pro1ect
Welt Season
Irrigated rice (well drained)                 11.1        3.8           160          608.0         88.0         c96.0              6.6          0.8          5.n
Irrigated rice (poorly drained)                7.4        3.8           160          608.0         88.0         596.0              4.4           0.S         3.3
Rainfed rice                                   12.6       2.3           160          368.0         74.8         339.2              4.3           0.0         2.8
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                                 4.3        4.0           160          640.0         88.0         552.0              2. 4          0.3         2.1
Maize                                          4.0        1.3           134           174.2        44.7         12°.5              0.S           n.1         0.4
Soybeans                                        1.3       1.2           134          328.8         16.0         317.F              n.4                       n.4
Sorgho=                                       11.7        2.0           120          240.0         3Q.3         200.7              2.3           n.3         2.0
Total                                      59.1                                                                               21.2            2.9        16.0
Cropping Intensity:                              1717
Net Benefits                                                                                                                                                    2.0
Flooded Area
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Painfed rice                                  30.2        1.6           160          256.0         58.5         107.5              6.0           1.8         4.2
Dry Season
Meaize                                         6.7        0.8           134          107.2         37.6          69.6              0.5           0.2         0.3
Soybeans                                        0.5       0.6           274          164.4         15.2         149.2              n.1          -            0.1
Sorgh.ss                                       4.5        1.7           120          204.0         30.1         173.9              0.8           0.1         0.7
Total                                      41.9                                                                                8.3           2.1          6.2
Cropping Intensity:                              138X
Future With Projet
Waet Season
Rainfed rice                                  30.2        2.3           180          414.0         74.8         33q.2             In.2           1.0         8.3
Dry Season
Maize                                          6.9        1.3           134          174.2         44.7         129.5              0.8          0.2          0.7
Soybeans                                        3.9       1.2           274          328.8         16.0         312.8              1.2          0.1          1.1
Sorghon                                        10.4       2.0           120          240.0         39.3         2n0.7              2.1           0.2         1.°
Total                                      51.4                                                                               14.4           2.4         12.0
Cropping Intensity:                              170%
Neot Benrfita                                                                                                                                                  5.3
Nonagricult.ral Benefits                                                                                                                                       0.F
Total Project  Senefits                                                                                                                                   0.8



ANNFY 2
Table 12
-72 -                                                                        Page 2 of 2
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Farm gate      Cross value  Production  Cross margin    Cross margin    Imputed   Total farm
Area      Yield           price                         cost                                      labor cost    income
('000 ha)   (ton/ha)   (Rp '000/ton)   ------------ (Rp '000) ------- ----_    ---_-------- (Rp billion) -----------
Madiun Rehabilitation - Stage II
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                               58.0        3.0            160            480.0         81.3         398.7              23.1           3.9         1Q.2
Dri Season
Irrigated rice                               20.0        2.6            160            +16.0         81.3         234.1               6.7           1.3          5.4
Soybeans I                                   23.0        0.5            274            137.0         15.2         121.8               2.8           0.7          2.1
Soybeans II                                  29.0        0.4            274            109.6         15.2         °44.1               2.7           1.1          1.6
Totol                                    130.0                                                                                    39.R           7.n         20.3
Cropping Intensity:                            224%
Future 11ith Pro.ect
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                               58.0        3.4            160            544.0         69.0         455.0              26.4           4.0         22.4
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                               25.0        3.0            160            480.0         89.0         391.0               9.8           1.8          8.O
Soybeans 1                                   24.0        0.8            274            219.2         18.6         20n.6              4.8            0.9          3.9
Soybeans II                                  20.0        0.6            274            164.4         18.6         145.0              4.2            1.1          3.1
Total                                    136.0                                                                                   50.6            7.8         37.4
Cropping Intensity:                            234%
Pro ect Benefits                                                                                                                                                  10.0
Tertiary Development - Pekalan-SarMean
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                               70.0        3.6            160            576.0         67.9         508.1             35.6            4.7         30.9
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                               49.0        3.6            160            576.n         67.9         5n0.1             24.9            3.4         21.5
Maize                                        24.5        1.5            134            301.0         46.3         154.7               3.8           0.6          3.2
Soybeans                                     10.5        0.7            274            191.8         28.5         163.3              1.7            0.4          1.3
Total                                    154.0                                                                                   74.5            9.1        S6.9
Cropping Intenoity:                            220%
Future With Project
Went Se.aso
Irrigated ri-e                               70.0       4.0             160            640.0         80.3         559.7             39.2            S.1        34.1
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                               49.0        3.8            160            608.0         80.3         527.7             25.9            3.6        22.3
Maize                                        24.5        1.8            134            241.2         54.2         187.0               4.6           0.7          3.9
Soybeans                                     10.5        1.0            274            274.0         31.1         242.9              2.6            0.4          2.2
Total                                 154.0                                                                                    61.4           4.8         62.5
Cropping Intenoity:                            220%
Project Benefits                                                                                                                                                   5.6
Tertiary Development - Perali-Coral
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                               50.0        3.2            160            572.0         A7.9         444.1             22.2            3.3         18.9
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                               32.5        3.2            160            512.0         67.9         444.1             14.4            2.3         12.1
MHfee                                        12.5        1.2            134            160.8         46.3         114.5               1.4           0.3          1.1
Soybeans                                     10.0        0.7            274            191.8         28.5         163.3              1.6            0.4          1.2
Total                                  105.0                                                                                   44.Q           6.3         23.3
Cropping Intensity:                            210%
Future With Project
Wet Season
Irrigated rice                               50.0        3.6            160            570.0         80.3         495.7             24.8            3.6         71.2
Dry Season
Irrigated rice                               32.5        3.4            160            544.0         80.3         463.7             15.1            2.4         12.7
Maize                                        12.5        1.5            134            201.0         54.2         146.8               1.P           0.3          1.5
Soybeans                                     10.0        1.0            274            274.0         31.1         242.9              2.4            0.4         2.0
Total                                    105.0                                                                                   49.9           6.7         37.4
Cropping Intensity:                            210%
Project Benefits                                                                                                                                                   4.1



-73 -                           ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                   Target Date
Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection
Issue tender documents for river mouth dredging             July 1980
Award consultant contracts for construction
supervison                                                 July 1980
Award construction contract for main mouth
dredging                                                   November 1980
Issue tender documents for the first construction
contracts for Wulan/Serang flood protection,
Kedung-Semat drainage and Glapan Sedadi drainage           October 1981
Award first construction contracts for Wulan/
Serang flood protection, Kedang-Semat drainage
and Glapan-Sedadi drainage                                 April 1981
Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II
Award consultant contracts for construction
supervision                                                July 1980
Issue tender documents for first group of
rehabilitation contracts                                   March 1980
Award first rehabilitation contracts                        June 1980
Issue tender documents for second group of
rehabilitaton contracts                                    February 1981
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean Tertiary Systems
Issue tender documents for first group of
construction contracts                                     February 1980
Award first group of construction contracts                 June 1980
Issue tender documents for second group of
construction contracts                                     February 1981



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV PROJECT
1980/81 Budget Allocation for O&M IBRD Assisted Projects
Rehabilitated up to 1/4/1979   Rehabilitated in FY 1979/80          Not yet Rehabilitated                Total
Area    Unit price    Budget    Area   Unit price   Budget   Area   Unit price   Budget    Area               Budget
Province              (ha)      (Rp/ha)    (Rp.1000)   (ha)    (Rp/ha)   (Rp.1000)  (ha)    (Rp/ha)   (Rp.1000)   (ha)             (Rp.1000)
Lampung
PROSIDA/PIBD         49,000   6,500      320,000       7,500   2,000      15,000      37,500   4,000    163,000          94,000    498,000
West Java
PROSIJAT            251,000   6,500   1,631,000       22,000   2,000      44,000      31,766   2,500       79,000       304,766  1,754,000
PROSIDA             214,578   5,500   1,180,000       22,768   3,000      66,000           -        -           -       237,346  1,246,000
Central Java
PROSIDA             186,293   5,500   1,024,000                 -         -           -             -           -       186,293  1,024,000
Yogyakarta
PIBD                 21,844   6,500      153,000       2,000   2,000       4,000      10,806   4,000      42,000         34,650    199,000
East Java
PROSIDA             316,335   5,500   1,740,000       37,262   2,000      75,000      78,937   3,500    279,000        432,534  2,094,000
North Sulawesi
PIBD                 11,025   6,000       66,000           -        -          -           -        -           -        11,025     66,000
Central Sulawesi
PIBD                 12,000   6,000       72,000           -        -           -          -        -           -        12,000     72,000
South Sulawesi
PROSIDA              52,330   5,750      300,000       4,000   2,500      10,000           -        -           -        56,330    310,000
Total          1,114,405   5,820   6.486,000       95,530   2,240    214,000    159,009   3,540    563,000    1,368,944  7 263,000



- 75 -                             ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for disbursement on the
i ol )wing items:
(a) civil works - rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation systems -
Loan Amount US$29.8 million; and
(b) civil works - tertiary development in Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean and gatekeeper housing in nine major irrigation
schemes - Loan Amount US$15.8 million;
2.        The civil works in NIadiun, tertiary works in Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean, and gatekeeper housing would be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding for a large number of small scattered contracts
because of the nature of the work. Disbursements would be made on the basis
of quarterly statements of expenditure made under the terms of the contracts
accompanied by certification that the work had been completed and by
evidence of payment. For tertiary development the certification would cover
earthworks as well as structures. The contracts and bid evaluation would be
retained by PROSIDA, the executing agency for DGWRD and would be available
for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
4.        The statements of expenditures for civil works in Madiun, Pemali-
Comal and Pekalen-Sampean would be prepared by the financial divisions of
PROSIDA project units in those areas already established for ongoing works
under previous Bank loans. For O&M housing the statements would be prepared
by the Finance Division of PROSIDA headquarters in Jakarta, which has
considerable experience under previous Bank loans of processing withdrawal
applications. All statements of expenditure would be subject to auditing
requirements established for the project.



-76 -                            ANNEX
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General reports and studies relating to the agriculture and irrigation
sector.
A.1 World Bank, "Comnmodity Price Forecast," May 1979.
A.2  World Bank, "Indonesian Growth Patterns," Report No. 2093-IND,
February 20, 1979.
A.3 World Ban>', "Indonesia Irrigation Program Review," Report No. 2027a-
IND, October 16, 1978.
A.4 World Bank, "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops," Report
No. 2374-IND, March 3, 1979.
B. General reports and studies relating to the project.
Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection
B.1 Republic of Indonesia, "Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection,
"SMEC, Volume 1, February 1979.
B.2 Republic of Indonesia, "Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection,
"SMEC, Downriver Works, September 1978.
B.3 Republic of Indonesia, "Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection,
"SMEC, Water Investigations, September 1978.
B.4 Project File, AEPIA, August 1979.
Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II
B.5  Republ'c Of Indonesia, Electroconsult-Nippon Koei, "Feasibility
Report," November 1976.
B.6 Republic Of Indonesia, "Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II," Revised
Cost Estimate, June 10, 1979.
B.7 Republic Of Indonesia, "Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II," Revised
Cost Estimate, Supplement No. 1, June 24, 1979.
B.8 Project File, AEPIA, August 1979.
Tertiary Irrigation Systems
B.9 Miscellaneous reports by PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
PROJECT ACTIVITY.
FY 1979/80           FY 1980i81           FY 1981/82            FY 1982/83            FY 1983/84            FY 1984/85
Serang River Drainage and Flood Protection                                             1                11
Detailed Designs and Construction Drawings
Tender and Award                                                            WVO  O   OAVJ   WW  !ZJPdPJ                      W.O VIO
Constrction
River Mouth Dredging                                                             _    _    _    _            _    _
Wulan/Lower Serang Flood Protection                            _ _        _                                           - _ ___      _ 
Welahan-Bum Drainage                                                                          _
Juana Valley Drainage                                                                         .  _                _                                          - 
Kedung-Semat Drainage                                                                       _                         _           _    =    =    _ -                  _
Upper Serang, Pelayaran and Wedung Drainage                                                 =               - _         _     _   _    _    _           _           _
Madiun Rehabilitation State II
Detailed Designs and Constrction Drawings
Tender and Award                                                  ti!   0' t      p     #' W                MOW _O4
Construction
Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean Tertiary Systems
Detailed Designs and Construction Drawings
Tender and Award                                                  sX x            _        w       _                     _
Construction                                                         f                  _{_
g,mar,r   Work Performed IntermittentiV
Indonesian Fiscal Year Starts April 1 and Ends March 31 of Following Year                                                                                        World Bank - 20752
xjr
W
l.a
aq



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV
Organization of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
I MINISTER OF PUBLICWORKS I
ASSISTANTS TO
MINISTER OF                                        DIRECTOR-GENERALOF
PUBLICWORKS                                         DI WATER RESOURCES
FOR WATER RE-                                        WADEVELOPMENT
SOURCES DEVELOP-
MENT (2)
sECRETARIAT    DIVISION OF FOREIGN
LOAN ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTORATE OF                                          DIRECTORATE                                  O DIRECTORATE OF ~ O A EIRGTO
PROGRAMMING  OF RIVERS            ~SWAMPS             OF IRRIGATIONEQIMNEGNERG
|ENERAL MANAGER|
|PROSIDA/PIBDl
World Bank -18765



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV
PROSIDA MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
DIR. GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP.
ICONSULTANTS L    I                       IADVISORY GROUP
E        r     1 P~~~~~ROSIDAJPIB 13
I CH EF  I                  r    CHIEF                  CHIEF                 PIBD
I ENGINEERING  ]              I  OP. & MAIN.            ADMINISTR.
IDEPUTY- CHIEF  I    IDEPUTY CHIEFI
IENG./CONSTRUC. I    IENG./SURV.-DES.I
ASST. TO THE         ASST. FOR           [   ASST. FOR            l  ASST. FOR S             ASST. FOR
GEN. MANAG.          SUPERV. CONST.          0URVEO. &S M.                                   FINANCE
I   ASST. FOR  I   I  ASST. FOR   I        ASST. FOR            ASST. FOR
m   BUILDING/FAC. !    DESIGN  I    m     HYDROLOG.]            GEN. AFFAIR
.1ASST. FOR   I         ASST. FOR    I            ASST. FOR   I      ASST. FOR      I
MECH. EQUIPM. |         BUDGET/REP. I             AGRICULT.I         LOGISTIC AFFAIRI
'1-
SUB. PROJECTS      SUB.PROJECTS      SUB PROJECTS      SUB. PROJECTS      SUB. PROJECTS
World Bank-16008



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIV
PROSIDA FIELD ORGANIZATION
I SUB-PROJECT    I.~PROVINCIAL
MANAGER       J                                     ADVISORJ GROUP
_ ,                                                            2/
CONSULTING                                          DEPUTY SUB-PROJECT
ENGINEERiS                                              MANAGER
1                                            DEPUTY   -                                              DEPUTY
DEPUTY 0 & M                                           ENGINEERING                                           ADMINISTRATION
r1
2/               2/                    1       , I1                      2/               2/
DESIGNU|   CONSTRUCTION              MECHANICAL     ADMINISTRATION       FINANCE        COMPTROLLER
DESIGN                       ~~~~~~~UNIT
0 & M SECTIONS
1/ PROVINCIAL STAFF
i/ PROSIDA STAFF                                                                                                               World Bank-8964
Oq
ID



Figure 5. 1
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
PRESENT AND PROPOSED SCHEMATIC CROPPING PATTERNSl'
Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr    May   Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep  |
SERANG RIVER AREA                          _             - --           PRESENT CROPPING PATTERNS - - - - --  - - -
la) Non-flooded Areas
Irrigated                             _ 1 1l1iil
Rainfed                                        1   lhllIll  111111111                  d!d   i  A
(bl Flooded Areas                                                               liiilIlhlIN
MADIUN VALLEY AND TERTIARY AREAS
Fully Irrigated                       _hhI   lINhhhl 111111                    lhlIlhhl  111111111
Wet Season Irrigation Only                    111      lflflJfl flfl_J  
_ _  -        .   -  _   _ _ FUTURE CROPPING PATTERNS -  -  _                 _
SERANG RIVER AREA
(a)  Non-flooded Areas                            111  hhhIhhll mlii                   tI
Irrigated
Rainfed                                  1 i   iiiiii    llll                   V            i 
lb) Flooded Areas                                 111 hhiNIhhhhl 111111111  
MADIUN VALLEY AND TERTIARY AREAS
Fully Irrigated                             11  Ihhhhhhhhlhi 11I                     l    I 1       1
Wet Season Irrigation Only             _niii  illIllihIl 1111  
Average Rainfall    500 _'5
(mm)
400
300               '                                            Serang River Areas      s
300 _             "      .         293   94                    Madiun Valley
200
100 _         35                                 i5 
too
0! =-  .
Land Preparation and Nurseries
^          -  Palawija Crops (Maize, Soybeans etc.)
Rice
World Bank - 20726



W60 137832
MALAYSIA~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Onno0>00
SLP-40    'I.,,  Sl5NGPdy A-'' 
0 h"l ~ ~  ~              ~              ~             ~             ~             ~           ~            >             'a']0,                                                                                                                                                 0OO 
Ij, A-                                                                                                                                                S,/ u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  -
bok.ot,o00 ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    5,00h
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooom ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       500J           0Oo
2             pIer0~~Vp                  25po,060re   h.                                                                                                                                                                                k-> iWloooo  2,0
t 1,250 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                     1704 ¶-
.oo2A,so  Jy         0               ~~~"                                               't.4                                                                 2          2
Ooo20olo                                  5~~~~~~~~P,j~ 2,000    h.r 2
INDONE                                8'6'0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Joooooobboo,o
IRRIGAT16N    'PBO         ~           ~          1 po'.o Llosb  &Sd'    Pod 0000   ""  
ROJECT ARE ~          ~          lopooooo  0000  000                                                                                                                  -                                      00010OtOpAr
mfti~~~~~~~  ~ ~         ~          ~             A~~¶0 SootIro~ Sobd tAooo 25 d,00oPspo, , 
V                    100,067O00h     ~r      a
BOO  ~  ~       ~     ~      ,~~'roi01dkoron0brio                                                                0     V    AS I SoSol¶  000  5,0    A-0,60o
= IR RI~    ~   ~  ~  ~  ~ Wo   C n O  obIr   s , 12 0  o50Co ¶           8Og S lop o¶ o  2420Lo.-0                                                                                                                                         00 4
Eam Fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soo 
ROADS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Io  ono'o                               oloooSr-ro0   .0 
D    1?0   200   39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/'o,004 0
Ssoborg  00orsng Sub-project 92,000  0  0, op 5   0100 /0r¶, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      -~NJ~Y
K BIC T O      POEIROJ[          T      X V            Comrk( Sooo0004 --)o  IO,nloo-'/ 1S4b1npSbp0o0,
~~~~AILES ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     oprcobr
0      jjfJ1f   RIEChBA 201 SF LOOCNRLPOPT2il Sodot:                                           Onnn                                               bA0 K,~<o/                                                                                                            -



IBRD 14508
t_tiCIPPNEa           1                                    ilt.55                                   INDONESIA AUGUST 1979
rjrvsAnra ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IDOEI
' m'';eE<.-+SlNGhueCSZ  1  <   o                      ~/                                   ^                       IRRIGATION   PROJECT XIV
K5uuA<5 e<e,MAir.taFaaa apaaa;uNI(rtsf/ j~ t Serong  River Drainage &  Flood  Protection Sub-project
-N    D-_ p0    N                       A               ;
Benef t areas
C-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   ~~~~~Future irrigation area
Main conals
R-wtaaaa  a5 --  lapara                                             Secondary canals
s 1        opana          'Exist ng drain in satisfactory coadition
11 0' 30'                                    '/                       '-   .                             _     Existing drra n to be rehabilitated
aTaaewaw'aafrSe ,epaa fa A-QPofPffEdbYrh@got hed N. S/,la,.aanoiaaaaaCaSN  -- ----.;#-.d-                                           New drain to be constructed
b-,-o des,oaa -amp dMI t,piy o- th- e -_e! o t -  Waed BN P d t\
aWfJ11-. ,ar,adaa-m isN rviSat., - f  , f    a -4C                                                                                  Rivers
cg,.,,  'a 50a,.Naara                   ~~~~~~~~Semat,                                                              Weirs
KILOMETERS 0            5            to            to              .-   ,a4-                                                             Proposed dams/reservoirs
_______________________________  -                                                       t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Pumping station
MILES 0                     5                    10                                     ,' 3 _             .--                      Power stations
XEDU , ;      t                                                   Main roads
,,a'   .                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Railways
--- I                                                                                                                            5  '7
\  ', / sM4w~~~~~~EM T                               P-ecangoan                                                                                          a -,  
_t                    ,               /                    <        S5py    , 1    ,       ,    ;    /a514
jK                RJMP    STATIOtN
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/00'               t/                                                                /                                                                                                     7'0
PUCANGGACING        '\~i\                                                                            
JRAIGUNST                                                                                                             r
BARA  G               W                                                                                                                u waEIR'                         -
WEIR  c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ WI
''_ WEt                                                                                                 .-
t/'/~~~~~~~~~~n                       v                                                                                                                                       a8     W{<
D eAM SITE                                AP' A 7AM Si/
JPAOAG'5   -~1'55,juoot                                                                                                                          1,0
RF.5E1?V0)1?  K dungia ~ ~  ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~ ~              ~           ;-5nita-
-.,  A5--.'c-,  -'  5-p   Oa -SPAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ill
7 tO~~~~~~~~3,1 7-0



IBRD 14509
r                                    111I00'                                                                       111.30'                                                                        112 00'                                                            AUGUST 1979
IN DON ES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIV
Madiun Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Sub-project
Project boundary
iI, p'-dLdi                                                                                                                                                                            6V      Irrigation service units
Previous Bank Project
(Stage I, Irrigation VII)
Not irrigated  area
Cerroirxsg                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
------Railways
->-   Rivers
[73                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Contours in meters7'   -
W fcJogiab:rr     Ko ongonyor                                                                                                                                             Sorcor Ecc,    MADIUN  REHABILITATION STAGE IIUN'ITS
L       :  X                                                                                        i                                                                    : m 0 a    0 & Atus0                                          u
S;wAr AcN;                 KentEng Ats                  Pirigng
Swrrhor  3-hie             P-rcrrg                      5 ibi,
S, -'N- At.s               PI-cgkrcrrgcrs               Pe-;T
Irn, c\itrAibSJrkarda L.d                             wo. AA.w.k        AsIE  Atc,                  K--0304
Lodrlol Af.s               G-dsl1                       Di-rng
|  991- .. C                                                                                    Bis.rh         Key-g Scs-rr,                D-sr 
Ngle--ccg At.,             K,,y-g At.s                  K-rshog At.,
X   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ KPengok B-1,c                                                                                                                            EerTrrgc                    Ke-rb-g B-wrr
%00                                                                                                                                  &-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ccrk  Mcyocg      KoTi Ab.
200                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ngiy-n B13sc  Pelcrs  K,,1Lsi
(l         33                                                    Ngiy- Ar,s                  Mr ic cNsgcc
K_k-'n                     Dom-                         Bruswok A1s
f                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~        ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sok. Rc-sr,  Keli sir-s  Br-~k 5c,rol
S.k. Alts                  G.Iok Ales                   K. iqed,,
Ponos-ogo   ~ ~ ~~~~6.Kior,pok                                                               P-sorg                      K.li G-rrlbg
Ked-9c Me,ck               31ege                        Jot Ketc, Atns
K--se                      Outrng K-.iiri               J,,t Kesok 5c-1,
Tre-Il                     SelIrng                      T-wu
Crc  Re,jo                 G.rerBtrdrro
G,,b-'g                    GIocggorrg                   D-rg S3-d.
Andcsrg Alas                Klepek                      Y,y-.rp-cg
___________  __________________________________________________________                                                                   TieiI Ales                  ScSi Ales                   PoE orre~~~Ti!] At-B.til  t-  ph
Ng-rst                     S-rcc  At,cs                 Ker-SIgcgo-
AlSO             7       ~       PHLPPNES                                                                                                                             Bringin                      eegScekOr
A  55 NIH  - ~ ~~~~~~~~~I  O    ~NJ.bung                                                                                                                                            Mru,wk                       Je-ker
K   5.                                                                                                         Kelekoss ~~~~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atc,s  J-rk  P-r9
4000000            Insist                                                                                  r                   Gcngging                    Srcngko  Ales               KeslerIs Ce erg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ng7q  R.nk.Af~  Kd-   C   -
UMATEA  ,,A ,ear/Asr      NEW                                                                                                        Goeggong                   Cebur Arcs                   Grrrdo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-nq.q  .t,rAt,  -d
I   ~ ~ ~~O~ ~N               E S            V     -
troor  - "IsA                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0  10  20  30  40t
rrr ,,sad                                      ,                        rnr,srls  r Onpi it      n   ,       -          d -d 0, 0559,5
7Ii                                                  rO r-irnrnrss,rrlrni.rI,nrsrrro                                                                         MILES                        3 50       15         20         2.5
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wf ...rrsr lbs...rdorw                                                  Ill130,                                                                       Ii 2 -00'



iBRD 14510
DOS s0A iUGUST 935
INRT ONES CA                                                                                           Project areas
IRRIGATION    PROJFCT Xf                                                                                            Previous proect areas (Loan 1268 IND)
Tertiary  Irrigation  Systems Sub-project                                                                       *         Serv,ce areas
PEMALI - COMAL                                                                                  ..r... a.ion boundary
Momn canals
Secondary canals
Risers
PLMAILI                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reservoirs
A: MALAHA IIU                  B.   VirF .                                                        1FA                                                      SRACGI                        I    Weirs
SERVICE AREA                                                                                                      '"       'L                           SFRVICE AREA                 H            pu.p
D  GULNI Gd
\ -                    S-Et F . CACx                                                 . A,fIRVl Ar -F  A                                          Raildays
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, '                                       RViCf  R .sEhA
%                        PEiA, APEKALO
(  /50  *   ty   u  ou      I           AK   ~\\-   ,,3aUTeYnDx K.P)
\ \F~~~~\ / e \ X Thz, rr, .rep3recl br z118 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~suosss                                                   .O*    d o~I         H*    -    eveurvl *,.o CD^   wooe,ec
R                                   C,                            SOKAWATI                          - ~                                                                /       - -
L                                       VE
PI NII        -ANGGERO0G
\,                                                                                                                                                               i    N    5 Pn 5 r n  N   0   v5 eM 
u~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0000  V 'rLrlTR                                 5        10      15       20       25   ®li                                    000013-ll  ,,Trss 
-S    -                                                                    S  iLOS D          5             ID            inrU@                                                              efN   >Sdr
.0AAJ  iB 109°30'



113°00'                                                113°30'                                                  114O00'                                               114°30'
IN DON ES IA
KILOMETERS 0            10         20        30        40        50
KU.OMETERS _____________________IRRIGATION  PROJECT XV\
MILES 0                 1o              2' 0                                                                                                  Tertiary Irrigation Systems Subpro'ject
7his -nphah       byee predaredhythe WVrldBankostar -ff--tUetrforrheronoeroence                                                                          PE    PAAI EN I AAADC A 1 1
of the tender oh the repor to wh/ch it s attached. Thr de,,ontto tioa -d and the                                                                        PE A        E L   if"IN _
7° 30'                   b_ondaoe -hown on -IS tmaIp d0 ot- imp,Iy 0n the p.rt of the Wond Bank and, ts
alh/iates. dnY,odgrnt ontheed1,,1ttcs oh anyf tr-tttor anyendo/sementor                                                                                                                                    7'30
dotrhptadeofscrhnforhhndar,ae>                                                                                                                                     -r v 
i   Proposed project areas
Primary canals
fI,77fi,   Previous project areas
P'-/-//      7Loan 1268-IND (1979/80)
Rice paddy area completed under
CR 289-IND
UM   Terrain above 500 m. altitude
Headworks or weirs
Roads
Railways
Rivers
-*~-Ditrictboundaries
_,P L54AND L                               'LIP' NES                      8a-3O                                                                                                                                            8e Xa30r
hdhGINEEI.
I    N A  Y                N      E    o~iT S    I                            r
Pa,ePrre              Ambon             JAYA I
S  KNA lrten   L(                TMR-0f
_ 13'00'                                                113'30t  b  0 _d
L A  y P~~~~~~~~~/M At~Ot0
SINGAPORE~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
SUMAIRA  KAZIMANTAN                                    PAPUA                                                                    ciganIoCrttiOdISOthdd,o



