Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2717-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM]
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 28, 1980
This document has a restricted distribuien and may be used by recipients only In the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENGY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =  Rp 625
Rp 100             = US$0. 160
Rp 1 million       = US$1,600
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS           - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan "Mass Guidance
for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input credit
program
DGWRD           - Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
INMAS           - Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification" - a farm
input programs
IPEDA           - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
O&M             - Operation and Maintenance
PROSIDA         - Proyek Irigasi IDA - a special project executive body of
DGWRD created to execute IDA-assisted projects
Paddy           - Unhusked Rice
Secondary Crops - Nonrice staple food crops.
Major ones are maize, soybean, groundnut, vegetables and
tubers
GONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton paddy (gabah) = 630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $116.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Twenty years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% per annum
Project
Description:  The proposed project would:  (a) assist the Government's
program of further upgrading its irrigation systems at
relatively low cost; and (b) improve drainage and flood
protection to increase food production and provide other
incidental benefits. The project consists of three
construction components: Serang Drainage and Flood
Protection (61,000 ha), Madiun Rehabilitation Stage II
(65,000 ha) and the Pemali-Comal (50,000 ha) and Pekalen-
Sampean (70,000 ha) tertiary systems. Also, engineering and
design for 105,000 ha new tertiary construction and for
20,000 ha main systems improvement in these project areas
would be completed. The project would benefit about 800,000
farm families and would increase food production by about
234,000 tons per year. Risks would be moderate, as are
normal for irrigation, flood protection and drainage projects.
Estimated Cost:/1
Local    Foreign    Total
------- $ million -------
Serang subproject            35.6       27.0      62.6
Madiun subproject            14.4       14.6      29.0
Tertiary systems             24.9        5.0      29.9
Base cost               74.9       46.6     121.5
Physical contingencies       13.9        8.8      22.7
Price contingencies          31.2       11.3      42.5
Total Project Cost        120.0       66.7     186.7
/1 Including 5% taxes on civil works contracts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                Local    Foreign    Total
--------$ million--------
Bank                        49.7       66.3     116.0
Government                  70.3        0.4/1    70.7
Total                    120.0      66.7      186.7
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-----------… ($ million) --------------
Annual      0.2    6.0   21.8    40.0  35.7   12.3
Cumulative 0.2    6.2   28.0    68.0 103.7  116.0
Rate of Return:    25%
Staff Appraisal
Report            No. 2673a-IND, dated February 12, 1980.
/1 Vehicles provided by Government under reserve procurement.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $116 million to
help finance a Fourteenth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Progress
and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
mission recently visited Indonesia and a Country Economic Memorandum is
being prepared.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at $360./2
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertability of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74) a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% per annum was achieved. During
Repelita II, (1974/75 to 1978/79) economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No. P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive
Directors on February 19, 1980.
/2 1978 figures, World Bank Atlas, 1979



$4.0 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to
increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate.
Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance
of non-extractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm
oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated
since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of
sustained growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite
increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the
economy has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial
sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the
economy - an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been
impressive, views diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in
this increased income. The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976
indicate that while overall income disparities almost certainly widened
between those two dates, there was nevertheless a considerable improvement
in the consumption of all income groups, with real consumption expenditure
of the bottom 40% of the population probably increasing at between 3.5% and
5.5% annually. Growth in per capita income was generally higher in Java
than in the Other Islands and higher in urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employ-
ment during this period was absorbed in non-agricultural activities,
resulting from a decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to
62%. Within the non-agricultural sector, employment increases largely
resulted from proliferating small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and
service sectors, where productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



- 3 -
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and lWater Supply, resulting
in the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by
1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and
primary school enrollment is expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in
1974. Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second
Development Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate
to below 2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% in Java and Bali,
where almost 30% of married women in the reproductive age group are
practicing modern methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty
problem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public
services remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over
one third of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at
1976 prices and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was
seriously underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the
continued prevalence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem
directly from nutritional deficiencies and insanitary living conditions,
results in extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality
rate. Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent
estimate) compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in
Malaysia. For the same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively
126, 65 and 35 per thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000
infants less than one year old die. These statistics reflect both low
incomes and the underlying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100
million Indonesians remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta
disposal; there are only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the
population; and almost 40% of the adult population is illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in Repelita III, the Third Development Plan (1979/80 to 1983/84).
Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable distribution of
the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national stability. A high
priority must now be given to the industrial sector since neither
agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the large projected
increases in the labor force (1.4 million per annum up to the year 2,000)
and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.        The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp
415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to reverse
some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred
earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources away from the



- 4 -
non-traded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, the
Government has also simplified the investment licencing process and exporting
procedures and introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates to
encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979
providing greater incentives to entreprenuers, particularly those in
smaller-scale ventures and those using the services of a public accountant.
On the monetary side, a start has been made in making the commercial banking
system more responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular,
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable, but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term, it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to provide
appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which a genuine
comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is probably less
significant than the high administrative costs and delays associated with
importing. The important improvements made in exporting procedures over the
last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made in this area.
Similar advances on the import side would improve resource allocation by
reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have little prospect of
ever attaining international competitiveness. In many countries devaluation
has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff structure. Although
this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent increases in oil revenues
have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange reserves, provided an
additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the non-oil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



5-
primary commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus
of over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the
increase in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980.
This is expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1
billion in 1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these
developments.  Since over half of the Government's revenues were denominated
in foreign exchange, an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramati-
cally increase budgetary revenues in terms of the rupiah. As a result of
the oil price increases, budget revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to
rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79 to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.        These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private
industrial enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price
and monetary stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example,
in the measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary
effects of the devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under
control, sometimes tended to counteract the desired effects of the devalu-
ation. Notable here was the tight control exerted over private sector
credit creation which may have limited investment in those export sectors
that the devaluation was designed to encourage. In addition, the increased
foreign exchange revenue presents potentially difficult problems of monetary
management. The manner in which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb
imports effectively will be a primary determinant of Indonesia's future
growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.        In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both increase in export revenues and
the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



-6-
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.        The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) commitments in
1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the IGGI (including
the Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted for over 90% of this.
The Bank's most recent economic report on Indonesia recommends that total ODA
reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979/80, of which at least 70% should be on
concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of the IGGI in April
1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80 made by bilateral and
multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the meeting therefore
concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately met.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
16.        As of December 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 44 IDA credits
totalling $769.8 million, and 45 Bank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3%-and 3%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.        During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of
the Government's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of
productive capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as
well as improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services,
the thrust of our lending changed to focus on these objectives.  Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment,
food security and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects
has been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended
to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer
production and distribution, transportation, education, urban development,
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No. P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive
Directors on February 19, 1980.



-7-
water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing
(including small industry development), power, telecommunications, popula-
tion and technical assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. lWhile the Govern-
ment's agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment
opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is
primarily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent
labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank
plans to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this
sector. As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support
several industrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank
Indonesia) is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support
export processing zones and wood processing, and to further expand Bank
assistance to small-scale enterprise are at various stages of identification
and preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is being initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup
for this expanded operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops (para. 26 below).  For example, the proposed Second
Agriculture Extension, also being presented to the Executive Directors
today, Second Agriculture Research and Second Seeds projects, will give
greater emphasis to these crops. Continued support for the provision of
basic services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban development
and water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and transport)
is also anticipated. Since it is clear that the achievement of the
Government's employment and equity objectives will become increasingly
dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and
strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the
focus of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and
sector approach.  The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable Bank
Group assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done
hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is
generally in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and
the Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of
disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years.
While some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors
towards "newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear
to be related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and



-8-
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in early M4arch 1979
and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September
1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months
the Government announced several measures to streamline the more complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.  Finally,
to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now
being presented for Board approval at a later stage in the project cycle. It
is still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project
implementation, but improvements are expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of Bank Group subsequent lending has been
through IBRD loans. Although Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings are
expected to further increase as a result of the recent oil price rise, a
portion of Bank Group lending will still be on IDA terms, primarily on the
ground of poverty - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the IDA cutoff
of $625. Given the uncertainty of the effect of the recent oil price
increases on Indonesia's resource constraints, the issue of IDA lending beyond
the current fiscal year will be kept under regular review. In the past,
because of domestic resource constraints, the Bank has financed local costs,
particularly in high priority projects in the rural sector. However, because
of the increased availability of finance following the recent oil price
increases, financing of local costs will be progressively reduced and will
only be limited to occasions where it will make a significant contribution to
the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy
discussed above, constitutes the fourth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date in
FY80 to $272.0 million. Projects for agriculture research, nucleus estates
and smallholders, and power are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next few months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RUPRAL SECTOR
23.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricul-
tural and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.



- 9 -
24.        Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of
production, the agricultural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to
30% since 1968, while its share in total exports dropped from 45% to 33% due
mainly to the markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless,
agriculture still employs 62% of the total labor force (depending on the
season), and about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households rely on it as their major source of income.
25.       Employment.  Although its share of total employment has been
decreasing, agriculture accounted for 46% of incremental erployment during
1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite
promising, given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, including
that developed by publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. On Java
continued irrigation rehabilitation is expected to generate significant
employment.
26.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77 in.the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertilizer
trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by
pests and diseases. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved with better
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nationwide
Government distribution of pest resistant varieties. Over the past decade,
output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet
potatoes) grew at only a combined annual rate of 1.6%. These gains in food
output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4% p.a. increase in demand, stimu-
lated by rising incomes. Over the decade, Indonesia became the world's
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978. Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4
million tons in 1978. The report "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Mtajor Food
Crops" (Report No. 2374-IND) concluded that even with expanded irrigation
and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food production
growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit of up to at
least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons a year.
27.       Tree Crops.  Tree crop products generate almost half of total
nonoil export revenue. Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped
land; coconuts and rubber account for 80%. Smallholders cultivate 80% of
the rubber area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper,
whereas tea and oil palm are grown primiarily on estates. Past efforts to
revitalize the smailholder tree crop sector were very limited. One new
approach, which is being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates
and Smaliholders (NES) projects (Loans 1499-, 1604- and 1751-IND), is for
GovernmLent-owned astates to plart and maintain rubber and oil palm on



- 10 -
previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be
settlers as employees, and thereafter to supply the settlers with inputs,
extension, and processing facilities. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, the Government has also initiated national programs
to assist geographically concentrated groups of existing smaliholders to
replant rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from
Project Management Units (PMUs). Attention is now also starting to be given
to designing a low-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management. Given the good market prospects and employment potential for
these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural compara-
tive advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using
all suitable approaches, is a high priority.
28.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
The Government is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem.
29.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese and Balinese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by
management problems, the Government reorganized the program in preparation
for Repelita III by transferring implementation responsibility from the
Directorate General (DG) of Transmigration to the appropriate technical
agencies. This measure needs to be complemented by continued attention to a
variety of technical and policy issues, which the Second Transmigration
Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to address.
30.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 13 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the Government's overall agri-
cultural strategy, future Bank Group agricultural lending is expected to focus
on four issues: (a) the production of secondary crops. To develop the
considerable agronomic potential of these crops in Indonesia, the Bank Group
has embarked on a major effort designed to encourage the Government in giving
high priority to this sub-sector. This will be reflected in the Bank Group's
economic and sector work program and the lending program in particular,
through the second phase projects for agricultural research, extension and
seeds; (b) a diversified irrigation program to intensify rice cropping on Java
and to extend water management to the Other Islands.  In this sub-sector the
Bank Group will pay special attention to institutional improvements to
increase the Government's capacity to undertake a greater variety and volume
of work and to engage in meaningful sectoral planning; (c) smallholder tree
crop planting programs. Here the Bank Group plans to provide substantial
technical support, through future NES projects, to strengthen Government
institutions, so that eventually a subsector lending approach for NES may
become feasible. In view of the established smallholder tree crop production



- 11 -
(80-90% of total area under tree crops), the Bank is actively pursuing ways to
develop coherent support programs for these traditional producers. Under the
Smallholder Rubber Development Project, recently approved by the Executive
Directors, the feasibility of even lower cost approaches is being explored;
and (d) area development and transmigration. The focus of the Bank Group
efforts here will be, first, to support and closely monitor these complex
projects, and, second, to eventually shift the focus of transmigration away
fron fairly narrow resettlement schemes and to place it in the broader context
of development of the Other Islands.
31.       Sector llork.  These agriculture projects have been and will continue
to be complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and
income distribution, irrigation, agriculture support services and food crop
production have been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, transmi-
gration program, secondary food crops, land tenure systems and supply and
demand for technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now under
way.
32.       The Irrigation Subsector.  Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in
Indonesia, accounting for about 60% of the area of all major food crops
harvested. In 1978, there were some 8.9 million ha of rice harvested, of
which about 7.7 million ha were irrigated or grown in rainfed paddy fields,
which provide almost 95% of total rice production. Irrigation systems serve
an estimated 5.0 million hectares of land, of which only 2.1 million hectares
have technical irrigation./l
33.       Irrigation development is the responsibility of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), which is within the Ministry
of Public Works. The DGWJRD uses the facilities of Provincial Public Works
Offices and, in addition, frequently retains contractors and consultants to
carry out its work. It is organized along functional lines in six Direct-
orates (for example, the Directorates of Irrigation, Rivers and Swamps) and
has about 1,200 professional engineering staff. In addition to the six
Directorates which carry out the regular DGWRD development program, five
special executive bodies /2 have been established to execute specific
development tasks which are funded from the Government's development budget,
frequently with foreign assistance.
/I  The four classifications used are "technical", "semi-technical", "simple"
and "village". Technical systems have a water supply system separate
from the drainage system and the volume of incoming water can be measured
at several delivery points. Semi-technical systems have fewer permanent
structures, have only one water measuring device (usually at the major
intake) and the supply and drainage systems are not always separate.
Simple systems have no measurement devices and have common irrigation/
drainage facilities. All these are controlled by the Ministry of Public
Works. The remaining "village" systems are constructed, operated and
managed directly by village authorities, usually without professional
engineering advice.
/2 PROSIDA (Proyek Irigasi IDA), PIBD (Proyek Irigasi Bank Dunia), P4S
(Proyek Pengembangon Persawahan Pasang Surut), Jakarta Flood Control
Project and the Brantas River Basin Development.



- 12 -
34.       The Bank Group has now made 13 loans or credits for irrigation,
drainage and flood control in Indonesia (totaling $574.5 million), concen-
trating first on the most urgent rehabilitation of existing works and upgrad-
ing of operation and maintenance services and later on improving and expand-
ing irrigation systems and constructing tertiary systems to increase
irrigation efficiency. The first three projects have been completed, and
a project performance audit has been prepared for the first (PPAR dated
February 13, 1978 on Credit 127-IND). Performance audits are under
preparation for the Second and Third Irrigation Projects (Credits 195-IND
and 220-IND). Conclusions of the PPAR for the First Irrigation Project were
that food crop production increases and economic returns exceeded expecta-
tions, and that the project was an outstanding example of institution-
building.
35.       The rehabilitation of about half of the major irrigation systems
(which cover 2.1 million ha in Java) has been completed or is under way, but
poor drainage, inadequate flood protection and rural roads in many of Java's
irrigation systems continue to depress cropping intensities and yields and
hamper the flow of extension services, agricultural products and inputs.
Recent cultivation and deforestation of the catchments of rivers serving
irrigation systems are accelerating soil erosion, resulting in serious
downstream sedimentation and siltation problems. Additional work on the major
irrigation systems is warranted, and the rather limited potential for
reservoirs and groundwater to expand dry season cropping should be developed
as far as practicable. New gravity irrigation systems and swamp and tidal
land development mostly outside Java offer prospects for increasing rice
production, although short-term economic returns on such investments are
likely to be lower than for rehabilitation of irrigation systems or for
tertiary irrigation construction in Java.
36.       When the Bank Group became involved in Indonesia's irrigation
subsector in 1968, the existing institutional capacity could not, unaided,
have supported the very significant accomplishments in irrigation
rehabilitation and construction over the past few years. In the course of
project work, the Bank Group has played an important supporting role in not
only improving the engineering and management capacity of DGWRD by providing
foreign and local consulting services and training, but also in strength-
ening the capacity of operation and maintenance (O&M) services in the
provinces and in ensuring that increased and timely budgetary support is
directed to O&M. There have been important advances in the local contract-
ing industry and also improvements in local consulting capability. The Bank
Group has worked with the Government in introducing multi-year contracts,
with price escalation provisions, where previously work could be contracted
only on an annual budget basis with no guarantee of continuity of work for
contractors. More attractive mobilization and prompter payment provisions
have also been introduced and an increasing proportion of work is now
awarded to local contractors and consultants.



- 13 -
37.       A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program /1 concluded
that, to expand rice production at the same rate as demand (about 4% per
year), the level of annual investment in irrigation should be further
increased by about 20% by the end of the Third Five-Year Development Plan in
1983. Implementation of such an irrigation investment program would demand
further strengthening of DGWRD, especially in planning and project formula-
tion, training, and staff development.  DGWRD lacks sufficiently trained
engineers, eonomists and other staff, and relies heavily on consultant
services in project planning and construction super-vision. For the next few
years, DIGWRD is expected to continue using such consultants in order to
expand investments in irrigation, drainage and flood protection. Training
and staff development needs are being studied with Bank assistance under the
Twelfth Irrigation Project (1645-IND), while strengthening the planning
capacity of DGWRD will be supported under the proposed Fifteenth Irrigation
Project also being presented to the Executi-ve Directors simultaneously.
Further expansion of agricultural support services provided by other Govern-
ment agencies will be necessary for successful implementation of the irriga-
tion program, and the Bank is planning to assist projects for extension,
research, seeds and fertilizer distribution.
38.       Bank Group lending for the Indonesian irrigation program for the
next few years is expected to place roughly equal emphasis on Java and the
Other Islands, while paying increasing attention to institutional strengthen-
ing. The basic problem to expanding irrigation investments is the lack of
sufficient numbers of hiah caliber DGWRD engineers who are free from
administrative functions to undertake engineering design and construction
supervision; a similar situation exists in project planning and economic
evaluation. A balanced program of investments in irrigation, drainage and
food protection and swamp reclamation will be pursued while measures will be
sought to strengthen DGWRD in project planning, evaluation, implementation
and monitoring to gradually lessen the Bank Group's current heavy involvement
in these aspects. As progress is achieved in these areas, the Bank will
also explore the possibility of eventually moving towards a sector lending
approach; it is expected that a broader involvement will permit a more
effective consideration of the critical issues in this subsector.
39.       The components of the proposed Fourteenth Irrigation Project com-
prise works in Central and East Java designed to intensify rice production
in the major agricultural areas near the Serang River east of Semarang, and
in the irrigated areas in ?Iadiun, in Pemali-Comal, and Pekalen-Sampean.
Previous Bank Group assistance was instrumental in completing some of the
most urgent rehabilitation works in these areas. The proposed works would
lead to further increasing irrigation efficiency and crop production in
these areas.
/1  Irrigation Program Review Report No. 2027-IND, October 1978.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project would include construction and rehabilitation of
drainage and flood protection works in the Serang River area; rehabilitation
of irrigation systems in the 2ladiun Valley; construction of tertiary irriga-
tion systems in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean areas; engineering
design for additional tertiary development and irrigation rehabilitation/
upgrading; and the construction of Operation and Ilaintenance (0&Ž1) housing.
41.       The Serang subproject was prepared by the Directorate General of
Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of Public Works, assisted
by local consultants (P.T.  Sangkuriang, P.T. Musa and the University of
Semarang) and by foreign consultants (NEDECO, Netherlands) funded by the
Netherlands Government, and an association of SMEC (Australia), Sinclair
Knight (Australia) and the local firm, Agriculture Consultant Inc., funded
under Loan 1268-IND. Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage facilities
for part of the area (Sedadi irrigation system) was accomplished previously
(Credit 127-IND) but land is still flooded periodically through breaches of
Serang River levees.
42.       Feasibility studies for the I4adiun subproject were completed by
PROSIDA, an executive arm of DGWRD, with foreign consultant assistance
(Electroconsult, Italy and Nippon-Koei, Japan). The subproject is Stage II
of the rehabilitation of about 117 irrigation systems located in or
immediately adjacent to the Madiun River Valley. Stage I provides for
rehabilitation of 26 of the systems and is funded by Loan 1434-IND.
43.       The tertiary subproject was prepared by PROSIDA as a continuation
of tertiary construction in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean areas.
Tertiary construction in the two areas was begun with financial assistance
under Loan 1268-IND for 21,000 and 30,000 ha in the Pemali-Comal and
Pekalen-Sampean areas, respectively.
44.       The project was appraised in June 1979 and a staff appraisal
report (No. 2673a-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. The negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from January 7 to 30, 1980. tIr. Oesman Djojoadinoto,
Assistant Director General, Water Resources Development, M4inistry of Public
Works, led the Government delegation.
Features of the Project
45.       The Serang subproject would involve construction of drainage and
flood protection works along the Serang River system and in adjacent areas
to improve about 61,000 ha of land. Existing drainage channels would be
improved and new drains would be constructed to provide adequate drainage.
The works would include: reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 242 km of
drains with associated bridges, siphons and water control structures in the



- 15 -
Upper Serang and Pelayaran-Wedung areas, including channel dredging and
levee construction; reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 63 km of
drains in the Juana valley and construction of about 12 km of levees on the
north side of the main Juana drain; construction of about 9 km of coastal
levees in the Kedung-Semat area, with associated road and gate structures
and reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 17 km of drains; raising and
strengthening flood protection levees on about 10 km of the Serang River
from Godang to the IJilalung structure; raising and strengthening levees
along about 42 km of the Wulan River from the IJilalung structure to the Java
Sea, and channel excavation of about 28 km; construction of a spillway on
the right bank of the Wulan River near Karanganyar and a low level drain of
about 33 km from the spillway to the Java sea; construction of the Serang
Lama-Bum river high level drain of about 24 km to convey discharges of south
flowing tributaries of the Serang River system to the Java sea; and
channelization and levee construction (about 18 km) along the lower reaches
of six streams that would be intercepted by the Serang Lama-Bum drain.
46.       The Mladiun subproject would provide for the rehabilitation of
about 91 separate irrigation systems in the l4adiun River Valley and a part
of the adjacent Solo River basin. The work would involve rehabilitation or
reconstruction of about 707 diversion weirs and other types of headwork
structures, and about 350 km of canals and about 1,048 structures that serve
about 65,000 ha. Most of the canals would require rehabilitation of
structures which would be either repaired or replaced. Engineering design
would be prepared for rehabilitating four small dams and for constructing
the proposed Pondok and Sangiran dams in the Madiun Valley.
47.       The tertiary subproject would involve construction of tertiary and
quaternary canals, drains and structures for 50,000 ha in the Pemali-Comal
area and 70,000 ha in the Pekalen-Sampean area. Engineering design would be
prepared for an additional 105,000 ha at Pemali-Comal and Pekalen-Sampean,
and for rehabilitating about 20,000 ha of the Senkareng-Pemali Atas
Irrigation System; and about 1,000 O&M houses would be constructed in nine
major irrigation scheme in Java.
Organization and Management
48.       The project would be implemented by PROSIDA, which has completed
rehabilitation upgrading work under three Bank Group-financed projects, and
is wholly or partly executing work under six other Bank Group-assisted
projects. Since its establishment in 1969, PROSIDA has developed a steadily
increasing capacity to execute irrigation, drainage and flood protection
projects and demonstrated its capabilities in construction and procurement.
PROSIDA would supervise the project implementation activities with limited
consultant support utilizing offices presently established in each of the
subproject areas. The project would provide short-duration overseas
training for selected management, technical and operating personnel.



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
49.       Although detailed designs and tender documents for the project
work have been or are being completed, technical guidance by about 420 man-
months of foreign engineers and about 2,400 man-months of local engineers
for the new engineering and design work for tertiaries and Madiun dams, for
bid evaluation, and for construction supervision would be needed in the
course of project implementation. PROSIDA involvement in many projects and
the limited availability of trained and experienced engineers and other
specialists contribute to the continued heavy need for consultant seriices.
Assurances have been obtained that consultants with qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank would be
appointed by July 1, 1980 (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       On the basis of anticipated early 1980 prices, the total project
cost is estimated at $186.7 million with a foreign exchange component of
$66.7 million (36%). The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 20%
for civil works and 10% for equipment and services, price contingencies
equal to 25% of the base cost plus physical contingencies and taxes of 5% on
civil works contracts. Consultant costs, including allowances for overhead,
housing and travel, were estimated at $10,500 per man-month for expatriates,
$1,500 per man-month for local engineers and $500 per man-month for local
technicians and draftsmen.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $116 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange cost excepting the foreign exchange costs of vehicles pro-
vided by the Government and $49.7 million of the local cost. The loan would
cover 65% of the total cost, excluding vehicles provided by the Government
($400,000) and taxes on civil works contracts ($7.6 million) and 45% of the
local costs. The remaining $70.7 million of the cost would be met by the
Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       For the Serang subproject, river mouth dredging, river channel
excavation and levee construction, and major drainage rehabilitation and
construction would be packaged into 6 contracts ($38.4 million)/l which
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The remaining 25 civil works con-
tracts ($14.4 million) would be for drainage works which are small, would
be carried out almost entirely by hand labor, and are scattered over many
job sites. These works would be carried out following competitive bidding,
locally advertised in accordance with the government's procurement proce-
dures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The Nladiun ($23.4 million) and
tertiary works ($21.8 million) are small, scattered, and would also be
/1 Costs in this section are base costs not including physical contingen-
cies or expected price increases.



- 17 -
performed almost entirely by hand labor.  Contracts would be let by systems
or by groups of systems on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding. For Iladiun civil works, a total of up to $5 million of works would
have a minimum contract size of $100,000; the others would be grouped into a
number of suitable contracts of minimum size of $500,000. No minimum contract
sizes would be required for tertiary works, or for works in the Serang
awarded by local competitive bidding.
53.       Excepting four vehicles, required for start-up operations, which
would be purchased locally by the consultants under the terms of their
contracts, all vehicles and motorcycles ($400,000) would be procured locally,
following Government procedures because the Government does not permit
importation. As this constitutes "reserved procurement", the vehicles would
not be eligible for financing or disbursement under the proposed project in
accordance with Bank policy. Equipment (survey, office and laboratory
equipment total value of $400,000) would be in small contract packages
required for rapid start-up and purchased by the different subproject
offices. No contract package is expected to be greater than $85,000.
Accordingly, the equipment would be procured through normal Government
procurement procedures under locally advertised competitive bidding or at
least three price quotations for small contracts less than Rp 10 million
($16,000).
54.       During negotiations, an understanding iwas reached with the Govern-
ment on the use and content of standard contract documents for civil works
and equipment to be procured by international competitive bidding. The
understanding on the use and content of standard contract documents for
procurement, using local competitive bidding, is expected to be reached by
September 1, 1980. Because of this and PROSIDA'S extensive experience,
prior Bank review of bidding documents for individual contracts may be
reduced and cost limits for contracts requiring prior review before
tendering and award would be higher than in earlier irrigation projects.
These limits would be $1.5 million and above for civil works and $200,000
and above for equipment. The use of standard contract documents should
accelerate the preparation of tender and reduce the Bank's supervision to
review of special conditions attached to individual tender invitations.
55.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment; 95% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured equipment; and 65% for locally procured,
imported equipment. Excepting start-up vehicles for consultant services,
purchase of vehicles would be financed totally by the Government. Disburse-
ments for civil works would be at the rate of 100% of total expenditures for
six major contracts awarded under ICB in the Serang subproject (equivalent
to 70% of total civil works expenditures) and for the Madiun subproject at
the rate of 100% of total expenditures.  For tertiary systems disbursements
would be made at the rate of 100% for structures (equivalent to 48% of total
civil works costs for tertiary development). Disbursements for consulting



- 18 -
services including up to four start-up vehicles would be at a rate of 100%
of total expenditures. Disbursements for the IIadiun subproject and the
Tertiary subproject would be on the basis of certified quarterly statements
of expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
56.       Assurances have been obtained from the Government that PROSIDA would
maintain separate accounts for each subproject; engage auditors acceptable
to the Bank to audit these accounts and statements of expenditures submitted
in support of Loan withdrawal applications; and submit to the Bank, within
six months of the close of each fiscal year, audited statements, together
with the auditor's comments (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
57.       PROSIDA would be responsible for the 0&i4 of all project works
during the construction period and (except for the tertiary works) would
continue O&M of the works under each system for one year following comple-
tion. O&II responsibility would then be conveyed to the Provincial Public
Wiorks Departments of Central Java and East Java. Although the O&IM funding
of irrigation, drainage and flood protection systems has been a provincial
responsibility, provincial funding is inadequate and is now supplemented by
the Central Government. This has resulted in considerable recent improve-
ment in O&M services in irrigation projects but there is further need for
trained staff and funds. O&M funds allocated to the various subprojects in
FY80/81 closely follow previous agreements between the Government and the
Bank. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that (a) all canals,
drains, structures, roads, equipment and other facilities of the irrigation
and flood protection systems rehabilitated or constructed with the financial
assistance of the Bank would be adequately operated and maintained, in
accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and public
utility policies and practices, and such action would be taken as reasonably
required to ensure the economic use of the water made available by such
systems for agricutural development and operations; (b) at all times
adequate staff are employed and funds allocated and would be made available
as and when required for the proper operation and maintenance of all irri-
gation, flood protection and road systems constructed under Bank Group
assisted projects; (c) by August 15 in each fiscal year or such other date
as the Bank may agree, the Government would make available to the organiza-
tions or departments charged with maintenance of any such system, an amount
of liquid funds equal to not less than one-half of the amount budgeted for
the O&M of such systems in each fiscal year, and make the balance available
in equal quarterly installments until all budgeted amounts have been made
available; (d) the number of qualified O&M staff would be progressively
increased until adequate levels agreed with the Bank have been attained;



- 19 -
(e) by December 31 of each year the Government would inform the bank of the
proposed cost per hectare for O&M budgets and staff requirements for all
systems assisted by the Bank Group, by June 1 of the following year of the
approved budgets, and by October 1 of each following year the staff provi-
sions and (f) by December 31, 1981, the Government would submit to the Bank
for its review proposals for staffing and funding O&M of drainage, river
training and flood control works constructed under the Serang subproject,
together with a maintenance program for these works and a flood warning
system, and by April 1, 1983, it would implement these proposals and keep
the Bank informed of the progress of their implementation (Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Shortly after construction of the tertiary works, responsibility
for O&M of the tertiary systems would shift to the water-user associations
established within the systems with close initial supervision by PROSIDA.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would take the necessary
steps to ensure that: (a) before the start of construction of any tertiary
network a water-user association would be established to assist in obtaining
right-of-way for construction, and to operate and maintain it after comple-
tion; (b) the necessary O&M personnel would be appointed to allocate and
distribute water to the users; and (c) promptly when a tertiary network is
completed each association would establish and collect from its members
contributions adequate to cover sound operation and maintenance of the
system (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring
59.       Local authorities would continue to keep records of flood occur-
rences and damages, and provincial agricultural staff would continue recording
agricultural yields and production. Mlonitoring the impact of the project
would be the responsibility of the Evaluation Section, Directorate of Planning
and Programming. This Section is currently responsible for monitoring the
impact of the USAID-supported small-scale irrigation systems (SEDERHANA)
project. The Evaluation Section will be strengthened under the proposed
Fifteenth Irrigation Project which is being considered simultaneously with
this proposed project.
Agricultural Support Services
60.       Agricultural support services in all project areas are in general
providing satisfactory coverage and farmers are availing themselves of the
assisstance available to them.
Cost Recovery
61.       The Government has effective mechanisms to recover a significant
measure of project costs through the collection of the IPEDA tax and of a
water charge. IPEDA is a land tax which is based on the value of production
of the land and is collected by the village heads and turned over to local
and provincial administrations. A portion of the IPEDA collections is used



- 20 -
for operation and maintenance (0&11) of irrigation, flood control and
drainage works. At full development of the project IPEDA collections would
more than offset incremental 0&M outlays for the main and secondary
networks, and water charges collected by water users' associations would pay
fully for tertiary O&M. Most project farmers have annual per capita incomes
below the estimated critical consumption level of about $110; the cost
reco-very is consistent with the farmers' capacity to pay and the
Government's income distribution objectives. In addition to IPEDA and water
charges, farmers pay some 10% of gross production in village taxes.
Assurances haxve been obtained that following completion of project works, an
adjusted IPEDA tax, based on the increased productivity of the land, would
be collected, sufficient to cover sound O&M and a reasonable proportion of
capital costs; that appropriate water charges would be collected by water
users' associations; and that the IPEDA rates established and collected
would be furnished once every two years for the Bank's comments; (Sections
4.04, and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
62.       The project would increase agricultural production on 246,000 ha
of land in Java by providing drainage and flood protection and impro-ving
water control and distribution. As a result of the project, annual rice
(paddy) production would increase by about 171,000 tons and secondary food
crops by about 63,000 tons within four years following project completion.
63.       The Serang subproject would eliminate seasonal inundation caused
by poor drainage and provide security against occasional flooding, resulting
in increases in crop yields by permitting the rice crop to be planted at the
start of the wet season and more secondary crops to be grown in the dry
season.
64.       Rehabilitation of irrigation systems in the IIadiun subproject area
would benefit 58,000 ha of land used to produce irrigated rice during the
wet season but would have little effect on the 7,000 ha that produce
sugarcane. Rehabilitation would allow the dry-season irrigated rice area to
be increased from the present 23,000 ha to 25,000 ha and would result in
increases in rice and soybean yields. In the absence of rehabilitation,
yields of rice would be expected to decline steadily as water distribution
deteriorates.
65.       The tertiary areas are in well-established irrigation systems and
overall water supplies are adequate. The major project impact would be on
crop yields which would increase as a result of better and more timely water
control and distribution; farmers would be able to synchronize planting in
water management blocks, thus leading to lower pest and disease damage.
66.       The project would increase crop yields and production thereby
directly benefiting about 500,000 farm families (2.6 million people) and
indirectly benefiting some 300,000 families of landless laborers (1.7 million
people). By permitting more timely planting of wet-season crops, and allowing



- 21 -
planting of additional dry-season crops, the project would create a need for
some 8.1 million man-days of annual farm labor, provide better access in farm
areas, and reduce flood damages an health hazards. Agricultural benefits
would begin immediately after completion of construction but Would not attain
the full contemplated level until four years after construcion. Some 114,000
man-years of construction 'labor would also be required.
67.        Internal economic rates of return (ERR) have been estimated at
14%, 29% and 33%, respectively, for the Serang River, fladiun and Tertiary
subprojects. The ERR for the overall project is 25%. The ERR computations
were based on a 30-year evaluation period and shadow pricing of unskilled
labor at 50% of the market wage rate. At present, about 90% of the farm
families have per capita incomes below the estimated absolute po-verty level
of $120/year (1980 prices). At full project development, this percentage
would be lowered to about 80%. About 60% of the project farm benefits would
accrue to the target group of poor farmers with 25% accruing to sharecroppers
and 35% to owner-operators.  The remainder would go to larger farmers
(average farm size 1.7 ha), a majority of which still earn less than the
national average per capita income ($340).  Projected benefits would be
achieved at an overall cost of $640/family in the Serang subproject,
$230/family in I4adiun, and $100/family in tertiary subprojects.
Risks
68.       No major management and organizational problems are expected in
the implementation of the project. Inflation is a continuing problem and
provisions for price increases for this project are greater than in earlier
irrigation projects financed by the Bank Group.
Environmental Effects
69.        All project areas have been under intensive cultivation for many
years, and the basic land use patterns would change little following imple-
mentation of the project. In the Serang River area frequent flooding of
living areas, roads and agricultural land would be greatly reduced, and
health hazards would be decreased.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
71.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 22 -
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMIIENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. lIcNamara
President
Attachments
February 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23-                                             ANNEX I
1.1MONESTA - SOCUL RMCATORSPage  1  of  5  pages
UI1URGE GYZIPS (ADJUSTER AT AGES
LUD AREA (TROUSMO S0. DI.                                                  - NOT RECENT ESTMATZE)
TOTAL          2027.1                                                  5S         SAE      NEX  ClfGUl
AGRICULTURAL    292.9                               lMST RECaT       GZD6RAC    oICOMm        IiCOuM
1960  Ab   1970 A ESTIMATZ A        REGION /   GROUP /4   GROUP  e
OP ?BR CAPtTA (USS)                  80.0       140.0     360.0           528.9      209.6      467.5
ElIUOY CONSMIPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS Of COAL EQJVALUT)      129.0       120.0    218.0            371.1      83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPMLATION. MID-TEAR (ILONS)       94.7       17.6    135.9
CUMRl POPULATION (PERCENT O0 TOTAL) 14.6       17.1      18.4            27.4       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PRJRTONS
POPMATZON ER Y1R 2000 (MILLIONS)                      207.0
STATELORAT POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      357.0
VAR STATIONARY POPULATION ZS RACHE                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PE SQ. DI.                       47.0        58.0      66.0           154.8      49.4         45.3
PER SQ. Di. AGRICULTRAL UND    337.0        419.0    456.0            566.7      252.0       149.0
POPMLATION ACE STUCTS  (PEI' ZN)
0-14 IRS.                        40.8        4.o       41.0            41.3      43.1        45.2
15-64 YIS.                        56.1        53.5      56.0           54.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.1         2.5       3.0             3.3       3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROTAH RAT& (PERCENT)
TOL                               2.1         2.2       2.0             2.4        2.4        2.7
aN                                 ..         3.7       3.3             4.3        4.6        4.3
CRUDE  111T RATE (PCE ThOUSAND)    47.0        43.0      37.0            30.2      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0        l. 0      16.0             8.3      15.9         11.7
GROss REPRODUcrToN RAT!             2.8         3.2       2.4             2.        2.9         2.7
FA1ILY PLANING
ACCEPORS. ANNUAL (THOUSAS)         ..       181.1   2213.0
USERS (P?ECENT OF MARRIED    I)    ..         0.2      19.0            34.1      12.2        L3.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
iVEx 0F FOOD PRODUCTION
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.5       100.0    105.0            L06.2      98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
KE1IREMDTS)                    89.0        91.0      98.0           104.1      93.3        94.7
PRTEINS (CRAMS PO DAY)           43.0        43.0      43.8            57.4      52.1        54.3
OF WP CH ANML AD PULSE         15.0jL      14.0      16.6            16.9       13.6       17.4
C0ILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY &ATE    31.0        22.0      19.0             4.8       18.5       11.4
HEALER
L2IF  EXPECTNCY AT 312TH (YEARS)    41.0       46.0      48.0            61.1      49.3        54.7
ItsANr MORTALITY RATE (PE
TrOUSAND)                            .,       126.0       ,,             46.6     105.4        44.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEICENT O0
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         3.0      12.0            21.9      26.3        34.4
RBAN                               ..        10.0      35.0            46.2      58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..         1.0       6.0            12.8      L5.8 a      21.
ACCESS TO ENCRA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
OY 20ti A£0i
TOTAL                              ..        12.0      15.0            2S.4      16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..        50.0      60.0           65.0       65.1        71.3
RU`A,L                             ..         4.0       5.0            14.t       3.5        27.7
POPULATTON PER PNYSICIAN        4100O.OLL   26830.0   16430.0          3790.5    11396.4     6799.4
POFlATION FEE NTURSING 2SOY          ..      8O10.0   4670.0          1107.4    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL S£D
MOTAL                          1370.0      1670.0   1560.0           613.3    1417.1        726.5
123AM                              . .     1130.0        ..          203.6      197.3       272.7
A&L                                ..      1890.0        ..         1110.3    2445.9       1404..4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED          ..          ..      22.4           Z3.9       84.8        27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSE0LO
IOTAL                             4.4         4.8       ..             5.2        5.3          -
'.BAtX                            4.9         3.3       ..              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             4.3         .7         ..             ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER WOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.;        ..
't3AN                              ..         t.6        ...                                    .
aUEPAL                                        ..                         ..        .           ..
ACCESS IO TLECTRICTY- 'PERCT
O1F 3VLLNGS;
TOTAkL....                                               .               .        ..zS
'Q3AN                              ..           .        ..              ,,      17.8        .5.1'
RiL                                .. AL..                              ..         ..         9.9



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
LISOZA - SOCtAL  mDICTORS_ DATA SM5?
mZIv=2I  GROUPS (AOJStZO  (AGL
DIDOlIUO                      - 5OST uECDIT!5STMAT!5 -
SAKZ        SAME     IKx? SIcS
!JST RIZCZNT    4     C0A1C    AICOME      mlCoa
1960 /b     1970 lb LSTZ  /b         3ZtON /c   C2DUP /d    GOU? /a
EDUCATIO
AWUSTZD UD=LM    RATSOS
an6aA!Y:     T0.                  67.0         75.0      82.0            97.9       63.3         82.7
EtAU                 79.0        a0.0       86.0            96.7       79.1         87.3
FQua                 55.0        70.0       77.0            97.4       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   MTL                   6.0         15.0      t0.0            42.2        16.7        21.4
MIZ                  10.0        20.0       25.0            46.7       22.1         33.0
FTha.Z                3.0        11.0       15.0            60.9       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ZO1L. (S OF S=MAXT)  20.0             22.0      21.0            L2.5         5.6         9.8
PUPtL-TXACP RAlIO
PRIMARY                           39.0         29.0      30.0            32.5       41.0         34.1
szCOBDAA¶                         14.0         13.0      18.3            25.1       21.7         23.4
ADUL. LI?zIAC! RAT* (RC0T)           39.0        57.3      62.0            86.1        31.Z        54.0
CONSUMTON
PASSLNTGE CA5 PU 201U3UD1
POPO9A710                         1.0         2.0        3.2             6.1        2.8          9.3
RADIO 31CZ7fl  PE  2013SMU
POPULTON                           7.0           ..      37.0            84.4       27.2         76.9
n? 9efl55    PU T!1sA
PO A2T0N                            ..         0.7        2.0            22.4        2.4         13.5
SIVSPAPU ("DAILY CICL
=TnEST) cIcm.LAIoN PE
T1OU     O2ATION                      .1 ..                 6.0            24.2        5.3         18.3
C 7InM   ANNUAL AT2221065CZ  PF  CAPTTA   ..       ..       0.9             3.6         1.1         2.5
LABR  ORC 10
TOTAL L.ICR FORCE (THOSANDS)    36027.0      42209.0   51000.0
FEM4ALE (PElRENT)                 27.9        31.0       30.5            36.7       24.8        29.2
AMCRI.UL E (PERCENT)              76.8         66.3      60.1            56.6       69.4        62.7
LIDUSUT  (PERCE)                   8.4         9.7       12.0            16.3       10.0         11.9
PAZ I=2A42O0 RAT! (PMAEW)
TOTAL                               36.7         35.3      34.6            40.7       36.9         37.1
olEAl                                54.2        49.5     4,8.6             9.9       52.6        6s.a
7IMALE                              20.0         21.6      20.8            31.0       18.0         20.4
EcONOMIC DEPEMOENCY RATIO              1.2          1.3       1.1             1.1         1.2         1.4
INCte01 STRIiUTION
?_RCffl OF PIIVA2I LlC'm
RECZIVED BY
aC1ST 5 PERCEN  OF  OUSESUOLDS       .         33.7/h      ..            14.9         ,,         15.2
SEG¢MS  :0 P!lSS  0P  0OlLD2.S    ..           52.0/h      ..            46.8                    48.2
LOWEST 20 PRICE=  Or HOUS LDS       *-           .         ..             6.2         *          6.3
LowEsP 40 PrCET 0? R0SESOlDS        ..         17.3db      ..            16.8         ..         16.3
POVE1rf TAR        SROUPS
SSTLMATE?  ABSOLT= P?OVE LCONM
LEVEL CUSS PEI CAPITA)
'1IJAN                              ..          ..      221.0           193.1       99.2      2,1.3
aDAL                                ..          ..      130.0           £2.,         8.9       136.6
sTIs.ATED RMIATTVZ POVERTY NtCmE
£vEL (US5 PM CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    145.0            136.8       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               *'                  98.0             56.8       54.8       103.7
21rJT-.NoS PoP'.jlSO  3ELOV 4830209
P?vERTY INCOME !EVEL (P20NT )
.MB&N                               ..          ..      59.0            32.0       -.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0             52.5       53.9        37.5
.  Vot a'.slable
O.t aoplicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1980. Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 prices.
/c    East Asia 4 Pacific; Id Low Income (02S0 or less per capita 1976); /e Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976); /f 1961-63; T 1962; /h Income recipients.
Most Recent Estciate of GNP per capita and population is for 1978.
Dece ber 31. 1979



- 25-Amxx I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEfl'lTTIPBS O? SOCIAL nP1IPCATORS
Notes: Ailthoogh the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it shosld also he noted that they MaY not be interna-
tlona.lly  -op-rble becus  of the lack of otandsrdioed dedinitions snd conc erts used by different countries in collectIng the data. The data are, nonetheless,
uneful,. to de-oibe orders of agnitu,de, indicate treads, sod charwt erio- certain major differencew  betweencutis
ber adjosted croonp... aerges fznr each indicator are pcpslation.eghted gen-tric noun, exclding the eXtremevlues of the indicator and the moot populated
ocuotry is each group.  Ice to lack of unta, group avrege  of al1 isd-natcrn for Capital Surplus Oil Plxportere and of indicators of Access no cater sd Pocreta
fiop-cs., Hounieg, thence Diot-obotb- sod Pc..erty foe other coutry grups  -r  ppulatin-neighted geomtric men   ithoot oclso    f the extreme values asd
tiemos poeolteccoutry.  Stone tbe covrage of coutries amog the indicators depends ccaaihlt   fdt  o   snt uiom    ation r-t he esereined
.n elting, avere  of one ind-otor to soother.  These averages soe -stly osf as approslntloa o   enpected'vaues  henf- cnarig the  -slues of ose
'odi-atv- at a  tre  a g the v-utry and reference groucs.
:AND AREAi (thoosand nq.kn.)                                                             ACcess  to Pzcreta Disposl (peren  oppsation) - total, urban, nod rura  -
otl-Total norface ure  on-oring 1sod  -oc  sd inland caters.                         R(ne   f  _peol _st,ubn,ad  ua)  evd by ecrteta disposal a-
Agri-it-ooi -  (tot recent estimt  of agricultura  area coed tempora.rily                percetages of their respective populations. Ecsreta. disposal  eq  laclde
or -en -etly, for crops, pantures, maket nod kitohen ga~rdens or to                    the coflection and dipspu1a, cith or nitbout treatment, of homah e-cete.
lefallen,                                                                            ad cate-eater by cater-borne systee or the use of pit priien and  -ol-a
GNP FEb cAPITA (us~) - lOp per capita. estimates et v-ret maket price,                   Pouclatica pee FIspaidi - Ppulation divided by number cf practiciAg physician
calculatec by snconversio  method asWorld Bank Atlas (1976-78 b-as);                     qulfefrmaedclshs.tuiertyev.
1960, 1970 ,-ad 1978 data.                                                             Pomastlaon ner Hornimg pereson - Pepulation divided by  uster uf practicing male
~NPYCpON grON PeP  APJTA  A-Anul coeuptien of Cercial energyanfmlegdutnrs,pasianre,adassatnre.
(coal and lignite, perle,mnatra  gaad hydre-,  olea,r and gee-                          Pnssltio  per H..Pita1 Padi- rtotaluban, ad-rura  - Popultion (tnal, urban,
thermal elntvli-t'y( In kiiogrm   of coaI equivalent per capita; 1960,                   mad esrarl  divided by their repclv          br of hospital beds available in
1970, and .1976 data,                                                                    public and private general and speci.Lled hostpital sad rehabilitation centers.
Hospitals are establishments permnently staffed by at leat one physician.
POEtUI.bTON sAND VITAL STTISTIfCSP                                                         Estabiishntn providing principally cutodial care ar  met iolsded. Rural
Petal 9p4ain (dYer(Illions ( - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                             hoapitLs, howevr, include health and medical centers sst p           ~ematmiy staffed
1977 da~ta,                                                                            by a physician (but by a mdical  asistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer
Urban Pouaion (percent oftotal) - Ratio of urban to total population;                    in-patient ace-adtin and prneide a lialted range of medicalfcliis
dfeetdefinitions of urba   rean may affect coparbility of data                 Adaissiona pee lssnita1 Bed - Petal somber of ad tsinaI  or discharges fre
amng conrcs   96i, 1970, and 1975 data.                                                hoapitala divided by the nuber of heds.
PoRulation Pool etione
Powelation ipear 2000 -Curent population prelections are based on                  HPOUSING
195ttlpopulation by age and sen and their mortality and fertility           Average Sine of Househld )Tpersons ourhasel) - total  urhbn. and rura  -
rate .Prjectio  parameters for mertality eanee c-prlse cf three                  A bosushl   ossso  agspo  niiuaswosaelvng quarters and
ievels assumig li fe erpectanoy at birth increasing wIth onuntry a                   their man meals.  A bearder or lodger -y or ma sot be included is the
Per caPita income level, and female life  mpeotany stabilizing at                    bousehld for statistisal purpseea.
77.5 yearn.  The pa~ranters for fertility rate  Is. have three levels              Average o-bee of Permena per roa  -totl,uba, In rua  - Average  lner
sosain  decline in fertility according to incom  level and past                      of pere ons per rsa in al urba, an   ualocpd   covnialda-iings,
femily olDI-Ig performance. faun country is then assigned one of these               respectively.    eeuingo enclude sun-permanent structures and unccpied pain.
nine conainatics of mortality and fertility trends for projectics                  Access te Electricity (perent of dasuaiga) ttl  urban, and rura  -  Con-
purposes.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ventional dweling  wit  eletricity in living quatesaprcngeo
Statioc.r Z~popatic- -iln a otttionary population there Isn.a grow-th                  total, urban, and rual dwellings respectively.
si_or li   rt  rate in equal to the death rate, and also the age
otroture remins cunstat Thss bcieved only after fertility rates                  EfASTATION
decline to the repianennt level of Unit set reproduction rate,  hbe             -Adjusted Rnrnll.ment Ratios
each gvnerotun of -enen rerlaece Itself esctcly.  The satinsary popu-                Prina f- ochou  -totale, mae ad femle -Gress  ot.t., male and female. enrol-
lation nice nas estimated on the hmis of the projected charateristicsmn.fal  gsa theprmry leveIa  percetages of raspective priesry
of the population In the year 2000, and she rate of decline of fertility               s.obml-age populations; normally Includen childrcn aged 6-Il Year  but
rate Sc replsoeet level                                                                adjueted for different lengths of priasy edsc..tirs; for -ouiree sidh
Year stationry...      tsi  reached - The year whe   ttaion-y population                 aniversl education enrollseent my esced 100 percet since sor  pupils
nice h- been reached.                                                                  aebelmw or above the official sobh-l ag.
Prs.h.-Mid-yea  population per square kilometer (100 besares) of                  edaalnrqie   t es   sryasof appec-d primary isstrs;otlon;
total araproides general  -.ctional, or teacher training imetruction. for pupils
Per no   o   giutrlln      optda   bv   o   giutrlln                                      sal   f 12 to 17 year. of age; correspondence cgr aregenrally
Popu'lation ho  Strutuei%rpen-t) - Children (0-li yer),wrking-age                        Pocational enolmet,(percent of secodary) - Vnoatis..al institution   inclde
(1-n  yeas,adretired (5 -ya   and over) as percetages of mid-year                      technica,Inutra,  or othr proghaa which operate independently ora
popultion; i96, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                      departmata of secondary instituticas.
Pouaiso Growh hate (percent) - total - dnnua1-growth rates of total mid-             Pupil-teacher ratIo -pImay ndsoadr    Peta  studmata enrlled in
year. pouain   o   ROt,i -TO, an  1970.17.                                                primary and seconda4rylevels dividedb umeso  teachers is the cone-
Popuatin GrwthRate (neeret) - urban - Anua growh rates of urban                       pondiag level s.
popuilatitnn  for 195O_iC, 160_-70, and 1970-75.                                       Adult literacy rate (percent) - literate adults  able to read and  rite( a
Crude Sirtb Pate (per thousanmd) - A-nsal live birth. per thousand of mid-                 apercentage of total adult population aged 15 yearshad over.
year ponslotion; 1200, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crude Death Rate (per thousnd)   Annua deaths pe  thossandvaiu-year                  COBpleis(TOS
populatin; 1202,1970, ad 1977 data.                                            Pasne       Can (Pe thousad psoplatinol - Ps..sengercr   opis etycr
drossneprductca nts -Average number  f daughters . oe  eil_ hear                  saiglnthneight persons; exludes anbUa-nes, hearses and cilitary
in her norml reproductive period If she e~parien.e. presen.t age-                      vehiela..
opecfic certo_Iity roten; u-wsly five-year averges ending In 1960,                   Radio R-wivers (par thomsand Poeltn(-AlypsfrcivsfrraI
1970, and 1975.                                                                        brodoats tao genera  pulcPertosand  f population; e..iudes unlicense.d
FamilyPlsoing - Acceptr.Ana  (shou .shnds) - Annual sober of                             receivers in coutries and In years shea regIstration of radio  -et  ca  in
coetr   f bkrth-vcat1roi devices ander aupioea of national family                Ifen;dta for recet yearn may not be ocepu~rable since moot conries
plning program                                                                         ahlinhed licensing.
Esally Planing - Users (percet ofmaried smn  - Percentage of maried                    Ti Receivers (per thousa Pnd opltion) - if receivera for broadcast to genera
cnsochl-bern    ag   1-lYear) she usc birth-control devic-a                    public Per th-unad pouto;ocldes unlicensed TP receivers in coutries
to all morred coe  in san  age grup.                                                   and in yearn shes regiotranio  of TV sets sac in effect.
Newspaper Circulatia (perobhousand  uplation) - 3hosa the overge obeialtion
FOOp AND NIRMTON                                                                           of  dily gnrlinheen  neapapee , defined an a periodical publIcation
ind.o of food Produ-tton per Capita. i969-7l-i00( - Ind.. of per capita                  devoted primarily to record ing general news.  It is coniderd No be 'daily'
annul production of all food  -omdities. Prodsotion enciudee acd and                   if it oppears on least four times a week.
feed and is on calendar year basis.  Cs~dltles  -seer primay goods                   Cinema bAnsaI Attendance per CaPita ocr Year - based :0 the ester of trlkets
(e.g. -sg-rune instead of nugar)  hich are edible and contaie nutrirata                cold during the year, including adnisol-na to drive-in -inna  and mobsle
(e.g. coffee and tea ar  vcided).  Aggregate production of each country                units..
is bsed  n ntionl ovrag  producer price seights.
Per -apito supply of onoin         eret of requir.emets) - Computed foe            lAPIN FObrC    FrE
cerdi. cqoovalcnt of -ct food ouppli-o avilble in coun.try par capita              Toa  ao oc   thousads) - E-unoisally active persns, including armd
per day. Availabie supplies comprise domestic production, imports lens               furcee and  -eplcye  hot-ccidiog houseives, students, etc.  efinitio-,
ecoocto, nod  hts',cinn;t-k.  Net  upp1ia-  -clode animal feed, seds,                is variou  -sutrien are notcoprbe
~unitiecued infood prooscing, and loose- n    distribution. Require-            apngly{ereppt(  F- fmle labor force as percetage of total labor force.
mentn -ce ctiat ed by FAd based on pby~occigical needs for sornal                  tgirpfrp  e t)-Labor foCe- in faring, foreatry, hunting and
_otivl  no'~d'health cons ideringvcr  noa  temperature, body ucights,                fishing as percentage of total labor force.
age sod uro dictributions of po,pulation, sod al.osi-g 1.0 percent for             Indutry (percent) - Labor fore in mining, vonstruction,Ianfacturig sod
s"Ite at ioehb1l1 level.                                                             cle-trIcity, water sod 6- a  percentageof total Inb- force.
Per c_pits _oply of protein  cgra- per day, - Protein contro  of Per                 Paiipbis  at  (prcet  -tota   sal , and  emal  - Prt Iiciption o
capita set -upply of fond per day. Net supply of fnnd in orflord anativity eaten are cnpted on tota7l,  ae, on   o oisiorforc  as per-
above. Requiremets for all countries established by USiDA proide for a                -etage  of total,  alr and female population of all age  repectively;
ellcs 1alownc  of hi gras  of total protein per dyp and 20 gma  of               196o, 1970, and 1979 into.  Theo  are  LiOn pu,tiipoti om  rates reflectIng
soca  and poise protein, nf which 10 gras  should he animal protein.                 age-sec structure of the population, and long tine trend.  A fes eatimate-
Theo  otandard  ar  Ilosor than those of 75 grsm  of total protein and               uefrom ostionl sources.
27 cra_  f aninl protein ananaerage for the usrid, proposed by PAP                 fensicPpeaseocy Paltio - Patio of pepsoatics ander 15 and  5 and over to
in one Thrd  orld Pod Sure.the  ator force in age group of 15-6b years.
Pvc capitaprotrin supoply fromL anmlad poise - P-stein nupply of food
dote   roc -einal  and pulses in gram  per day.                             nSfM fi ISPPTREmIfONs
Msd(gc  -)Portality Pate (pee thounond) - AcousI deAths per tbhosand         Percentage of Private Income (10th In cah and kind) - Receivwed by richest
inag  grop i-u prar, no cnildse  in this age group; 5cr ment dec01-                  5 Percent, richest 2i percent, poorest  0 percent, an~d poorest 40 percent
opoe9 cosecue t  dao detr.ived Sfn- lifr tabivo.                                       ofr hounsho1ds.
MAdMT                                                                                  POVPPT TARGET GPOEP
977c EupeotaYNo at Prdb ',Ycars  - Average number of pears of life                     intimated Absolute Poverty Incm  L-ve  (US5$ per capita( - urban ned -rurl-
renuing at birth  ;O16, 1970, and 1977. dsta.                                         Abnolutc poverty Incm   level In that becom  1-1e 1cios ouch a niniai
lofec troulpty doer 'ner thousad) - Annual deaths of infants under one                   nutritionally adeoumte diret PIue eanill  o-food requireo-  us cot
ye    faepr th-u-ud live  irtbh.                                                affordable.
to_r_ to cSfr Rater  -no-t of  -oual   (-toa,urban, ow  -noa  -                        Essinated PeIative Poverty racom  Level (US; per capita) - urban and rurl 
Pusser ef prpl   -totl, urban, and  rua>so   enne scorn  to                           Rura  relativ   p-crty incon  leve1 is on-b~i rd of averge per capita
noPe salc_ suppl  (inclde  treatd srfoo-  -ac    rutreated but                         perno-I inom  of the  cuntry. dribn iced  o  derioni from the rurl leonl
oceseacor        -wterouh tncht from protcoted ibrebcles, uProgo.                      with adjustment for hig_e  c0so of living in urbanaen
sod  -sota-y seo   an  ercentages of their erap-ti-e populatios-. :n                 Estimated PouainBoioc Ab-nlute  oet  noelvl cret                          ra   n
so ocea  arc  a cublic  onaoo   tstndp-sv lccsed not acr  than                         rua           _ Pr t of tnpoisto-  (urban an rI a)ncaennuepr
211 meoePo      yace   m  be cnsdered no icin.g sithin rea.sonable
t"    tie nceoe-fe or--br  of the ! . cuenoid dv too _ne to  -veq                                                                    - cnmcad Pecia1 Osta Dicoson
pcovpt-oe pat cf tie ny fineto-ig the famllyt3 untee needa                                                     Ic--oic iialyisi  and Prnjeoti... Pepstment
August 1979



- 26 -
ANTEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTNR (%, constant prices)
USS Mln    %          1960-65           1965-70           1971-78
GIP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1             3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force lb    W.A. Per TWorker
TJSSHln    % "        Mln      7            USS      x
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERN3MENT FINANCE
CENTRA.L GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion) _                              of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2.744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   197
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695     987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129     153      209      990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector           524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)         106     139      196      234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = USSI, thereafter.
'b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific -roerams
'anuary 30, 19P0



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                       XERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1976       1977       1978              (Average 1976-78)
USS X15       x
1.  Exports:                                    6,573       7,952      7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)                   3,710      4,445       4,010             Oil and LNG (net)              4,055       54.1
(b)  Nonoil                              2,863       3,507      3,979             Timber                            986      13.1
2.  I=ports (incl. net NFS)                    -6,657     -7,777      -8,129             Rubber                            653       8.7
(a)  Imports                            -6,167     -7,241      -7,543             Coffee                            488       6.5
(b)  NfFS (net)                           -490       -536         586             Palm Oil                          190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                              -84         175       -140             Tin                               253       3.4
4.  Factor services                              -718        -865    -1,015              Manufactures                      261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a              -314       -436        -499             All others                        619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                          -404       -429        -516
5.  Balance on current account                   -802        -690    -1,155                   Total                      7.505     100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment                      287        285        271
7.  Capital grants                                 100        100        100
8.  Public '4 & LT loan /a
(a)  Disbursement                        2,334      1,955       1,627            RATE OF EXCHANGE
(b)  Amortization                         -457       -825        -969
(c)  Net disbursements                   1,897      1,130         658               August 1971 through November 14, 1978
9.  Other capital (net)                          -481        -174        834
!0.  Change in reserves                                                                       UJSS1.00  -  Rp 415
(- increase)                            -1,001       -651        -708                 Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41
11.  Net cfficial reserves                       1,557       2,208      2,916
Since November 15. 1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS                 2.8        3.4        4.3
Public debt service as ' of exports                11.7       15.9       18.4                 USSl.00  -  Rp 625
Rp 1,000 -  USS1.60
EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
Disbursed Undisbursed Total
US$ million
Total External Public Debt                       12,983      5,794     18,777
7BRD,/OnA LENDING (December 31. 1979! (USS million)
TBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                           760.09    515.16
Undisbursed                                    1,815.91      254.64
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                  2,575.00      769.80
!a  3ased on IBRD external debt data.                                                                    East Asia and Pacific Programs
February 15, 1980



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and twenty-two Credits fully disbursed            50.00  300.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.42
289     1972   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.50        0.08
300     1972   Populat-ion                                         13.20        2.15
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.50        0.46
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.06
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.05
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.61
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.54
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.71
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.40
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        9.27
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.47
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.29
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       26.73
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.76
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.73
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00       10.00
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
1005     1974   Railway                                    48.00                 0.46
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 5.11
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                41.85
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 2.29
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.92
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                16.19
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                89.56



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                29.50
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                38.65
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 8.77
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                44.75
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.96
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                18.68
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.64
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                17.09
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                21.18
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                6.49
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                64.51
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.88
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.64
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                56.46
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                27.32
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    15.43
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.41
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.67
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders 1         65.00                55.95
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               106.31
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                4.78
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               135.24
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.39
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.86
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.59
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                50.00
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.78
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               130.00
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply /a                     36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               99.00
/a Not yet effective.



_30                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                        2.575.00  769.80   2,058.31
of which has been repaid                      32.34    0.41
Total now outstanding                        2.542.66  769.39
Amount sold                                      28.24    0.00
of which has been repaid                       9.99
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            2,524.41  769.39
Total undisbursed                            1,815.91  254.64   2.058.31
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
Total                                               51.7      10.5      62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.4       2.1      35.5
Total held by IFC                                   18.3       8.4      26.7
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)                    -          -



-32 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, La. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                     6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                           11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                 12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                      13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1j27, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                           15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                     17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                             19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                               20-21
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                   23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709 /2)                                           24
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:  TTSS30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule.  The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be completed
by December 1982, about three years behind the original completion date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dan and unit price increases in other
components. These will be verified as bids are received for the m-aior
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1q83.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largelv due to



- 34 -                         ANNEXII
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  USS140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
necember 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date:  May 10, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.



35                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop. Production
targets for 1979 for both crops are expected to be achieved.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The Bina Mulya Ternak corporation (BMT) is now managed by Indonesian
staff with satisfactory capability. Development of ranch infrastructure and
fencing has practically been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi ranches
remain understocked. It is expected that accelerated purchases of domestic
stock in 1979 will enable BMT to utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. A three-year pasture and grazing research program with
Australian bilateral assistance has started. Sufficient funds were available
to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1979 and up to Project
completion about mid-1980.



-36-                          ANNE-II
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: USS5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: USS7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Pakyat Indonesia and
extension advice tWrough a Project Management UInit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry.  The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Pehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
-The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instrumentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularlv on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention. Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor quality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP XV and PTP YXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction progran, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units. The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a much greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
consequent dislocation of cane supply. Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especiallv in East Java, hut inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 37 -                      ANTEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer interest and maintain cane supply.
The Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carry out this
research.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: USS6.5 Ilillion Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  January 8, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30,
1980
The overall project is about 18 months behind schedule.
Construction of shore facilities at Anbon is completed and operating
satisfactorily. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is
on site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  TTS$3O Million
Toan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: T!arch 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled
area at WIay Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops. Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and ensuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Snallholder I:  USS65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which -
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12. 1978; Effective Date:  September 13, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31. 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project became effective in November 1979.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers,
the project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation esti-
mates. At the present projected pace of implementation all components,
except fellowships, should be completed by the Closing Date.



39                         ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13. 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
a year behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase with book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement. Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and their content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java
and Sumatra, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities.  The project
implementation unit has been established and staffed, and implementation of
the technician components (84% of project cost) is proceeding on schedule:
contracts for architectural and technical assistance services have been
signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch plans have been completed.
Implementation of the accountancy components (16% of project cost) of the
project is six months behind schedule primarily due to inadequate coordination
and control among the several agencies involved in implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of the-
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical



ANNEX II
-41-                        Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the Mfinistry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 Mtillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project finances the development of primarv and secondary
teacher training. -The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed. The team has now started training of 7, Ono
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly.  Minor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  ITSS15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date:  NTovember 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed. Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  U1S542 Million Loan of Mav 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Covernment's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and equipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 42 -                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
thereafter progressed smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been
synchronized with She grid and are now operating satisfactorily. Consultants
are expected to issue final acceptance of the plant shortly to enable dis-
bursements to be completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang was commissioned in August
1979 meeting the appraisal target. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1980 as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 100 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang has been retarded, inter-alia, due to a
misalignment in the center line and consequent delays by the consultant in
finding appropirate solutions. Currently, a delay of about four months is
estimated in the commissioning date for Unit 4 and about 2 months for Unit
5.



- 43 -                       ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages -
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about US$30 million is expected. Delays in award of contracts for civil
works caused by introduction of new procedures for contract awards by Gov-
ernment have resulted in a four-month delay in the tight construction
program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set corres-
pondingly.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5. 1979: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far. Bids for turbine
generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a letter of intent for
the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled. Bids for steam gener-
ator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation.  Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in-
1980.  The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



ANNEX II
- 4  -                       Page 17 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976), BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached an understanding with BAPINDO and
the Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy
BAPINDO's weaknesses and achieve further improvements. BAPINDO has effec-
tively implemented the Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 45 -                      ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10 Million Loan of M4ay 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts. The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980.  The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been.
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 4, 1977;  Closing Date:  April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily.  Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of building materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule. Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



ANNEX II
- 46 -
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. By June 30, 1979, the total cumulative dis-
bursement was $1,761,000 compared with the appraisal estimatc of $9,824,000.
The rate of disbursement is, however, likely to accelerate as buildings
currently under construction are completed and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977: Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy- has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project
start. Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February
1979. The Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and
the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While
monitoring and evaluation units for each component have been operational for
six months the central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project
Secretariat is just starting to be staffed. A mission is currently in the
field preparing the Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will
soon be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 47 -                     ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975; closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion.  All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



-48 -                        ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km is about to
start. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts
started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluatior. also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts had to be and still are being made. While remedial measures taken
in 1978/79 (and others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress
and disbursements, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months
beyond the loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to
be within appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979:
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan became effective in August; the initial implementation
has been slow.
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US58.5 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972: Effective Date: October 19, 1972:
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed, and has been closed.
A completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the



- 49                         ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of the
rupiah in November 1978; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that
the scope of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-
island ships and that an extension of the present closing date will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Taniung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976: Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities is progressing
slowly due to the impact of the rupiah devaluation. The regional berths
component has likewise been affected although a contract for the new works
had been awarded since December 1977. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479  Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14. 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is, however, expected to start in
1980 for completion by mid-1983.



- 50 -                       ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loar of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete.  Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available by March 1980, at which
time the project would be substantially completed.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. The project progress is generally according to schedule. Upgrading
costs for the first two-year program have been within the appraisal estimates.
However, the costs for the third-year program was affected to some degree
by the rupiah devaluation on November 15, 1978. About 3,435 ha of kampungs
in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities.
However, these difficulties are generally being overcome.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million.  A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs.



ATNEX IT
-51-                      Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities W7ater Supply:  USS14.5 Mfillion Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date:  May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. All equipment supply and all major civil
works contracts, with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed
because of slow procurement of pipe), are under execution.  A cost overrun
of about 30%, caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and
devaluation, is expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering has been completed, and the establishnent and development of
local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. .4lso, disbursements
are expected to accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and
supplies are being delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  USS36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Not yet effective; Closing Date:  Decenber 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 52 -                             ANNEX III
INDONESIA
FOURTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project   :   Four years.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project   :   Directorate-General of Water
Resources Development, with
consultant assistance funded
locally and under the Sixth
and Seventh Irrigation Projects.
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider project                            February 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal
miss ion                                :   June 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations          January 30, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness               June 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) appoint consultants satisfactory to the Bank by July 1, 1980
(para 49);
(b) ensure that adequate staff and funds would be provided at all times
for the proper operation and maintenance (O&M) of all project
works, and for the Serang River subproject would, by December 30,
1981, submit proposals for O&M staffing and funding as well as a
flood warning system and begin implementation of the proposals by
April 1, 1983 (para. 57); and
(c) collect an adjusted IPEDA tax from the farmers after project
completion, and establish water users' associations for each
tertiary network to collect appropriate water charges to ensure
sound O&M practices (para. 58).



103-                                   166                                    log.                                                                                                                                                                                             124-              1,979
Do-
6                  4-A
MALAYSIA
MALAYSIA
J
SINGAPORE
d, A-,
F-h
B-,
A-
K A  L    M  A N T A N
Sb
1, n-b-  51.d A,,,
/-11 I 1 000                   -g
L                             B-.k                                                                                       S-1
A    T             AZ-                                                                                                    )                I
BANGKA
dy A                                  0
bELITUNG                                                                        12    0h                                                               S         L   A   W    'E   S' l
-1) SI.dy A-                                                                                                                                                               C-,."
50.000                                                                                                                                                   1.11, Sdh.g Sh-I,
b,000 N
I          I ,,,kjt 25000                                                                                                                                                 Sd-, 11.od C--
p,.j-, 25,000 h                                                                                                                                     hd         S.dy A,
i  A   V  A                                           A
66 000 lh
Ah,y K.h&             1,260                                                                                                                                                                                      U1,11 PM-,                S-                                 i
5700
S
J.1iU- P,.W, 263,D00
K,,Iib,NS b                         C            o Ig
I                                      25,000 h. T.11
K
INDONESIA                                                  5.                              00       D6-11.j1,,t 92,000 h,
IRRIGATION    PROJECT    XIV                                         P-g                                                                                    .p..-Shd.,PSb-p,.j..t 47,400
PCIOJECT RLAS                                                                                                                                              Sh,dv A-  3,600 h.
Cil-h Sl.dy A-
C
OWER CtMANLJK 8ASIN FLOOD CONTROL PRO.IFC--K1ll1""' " '    /-
=          IRRIGATION Pal)JECTS  \11                                              5,800 hi
ROADS                                                                                                                             k.
RIVERS                                                                                          89,00D          <.h p-                                                                                    LOMBOK
fN iERNAPONAL ?OJNDARIES                                                                                       .Ip.                                         -                                                 -1,
34,00(
--DMBAWA
T9. Kot.,
200        300         400          500
C) C   E  A  At                                                                                                                                                             44I  : ,
,LOMETERS                                                                                                                                                               rh, -    h b-            h, -    8-1                  1,
I, -  -V          P-     h,,             71,              ".1 -1
1                100                200                300                                                                                                                                                h-     'h,, -    1 -            1-  ' "I -11, -k
MILES                                                                                                                                                                  .. p-    f
1?0.                                                                                106-                                     19g.                                    112-                                     115,                                     11W



