Documet Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2)d,t/  _)c;/S       .
Report No. P-4483-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRE:IDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AIT AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLIO"
TO THE
ARGENTINE. REPURLIC
FOR
A TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATIQ.-LO.AN
May 19, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 M Austral 0.80
(June 14, 1985 to April 8, 1986)
US$1 = Austral 1.255
(December 31, 1986)
US$1 - Austral 1.541
(March 30, 1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)        = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)       = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARGEX    -   Argentine Exports
BCRA     -   Central Bank of Argentina
BONEX    -   Government-Issued Dollar Denominated Bonds
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
DJAT     -   Temporary Admission Regime Import Request
DJNI     -   Import Request
SICE     -   Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade
TAR      -   Temporary Admission Regtime
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVER3IFICATION LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Argentine Republic.
Amount:            US$500 million equivalent.
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The proposed loan would support the first phase of the
Government's trade policy reform program. The objective
of the program is to support the Government's adoption of
an outward-looking strategy focused on improving export
competitiveness   and   increasing   the  efficiency   of
Argentine  industry.    This  would  redress  the  strong
anti-export bias in the present system of tariff and
non-tariff protection.   It would also be linked to the
maintenance of an adequate exchange rate. ln conjunction
with the Loan, the Government would: (a) expand the
temporary admission regime and introduce automaticity and
uniformity in its operation, moving towards "free trade"
status for exporters; (b) simplify the whole system of
approvals and controls of trade administration; (c)
eliminate the remaining export taxes on manufactures and
reimburse indirect taxes on exports; (d) rationalize the
protection system through the gradual reduction of
non-tariff barriers to trade, including the transfer in
1987 of a block of 700 tariff positions from the prior
consultation  list  to  the  automatic  list;  and  (e)
formulate an Action Program of  trade  reform for  the
second  phase  of  the  trade  policy  reform  program
consistent with the gradual elimination of most import
non-tariff restrictions over a three-year period and
rationalization of the import tariff structure (described
in  the  Government's  Policy  Statement  on  Economic
Adjustment--Annex  V).   The  program would  produce  an
improvement in growth, efficiency and export capacity.
Project Risks:    The risks of the trade policy reform program relate to
the possibilities of setbacks in macroeconomic policy
that would interfere with a gradual and sustainable
opening up of the economy: strong  domestic opposition
because  of  difficulties  in  adjusting  to  the  new
incentives, the possible lack of an adequate private
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
investment response to the export incentives, further
strains on the banking sector, and adverse developments
in the world economic environment which could lessen the
political scope to import liberalization.   These risks
are mitigated by the Government's strong commitment to
stabilize the economy and tn proceed with a broad program
of structural reforms which include besides trade policy
adjustment, a banking sector reform, rationalizing the
public sector and increasing the role of the private
sector in the economy. These risks are also expected to
be reduced by the Government's recent successes in
negotiating a multiyear rescheduling and new monies with
the commercial banks and a new standby program with the
IMF, and by the progress in trade policy reforms achieved
already, particularly in eliminating export taxes, moving
towards "free trade" status for exporters and opening up
the economy.
Estimated
Disbursements:  The first tranche of US$248 million would be available
upon loan effectiveness, to be disbursed by reimbursing
100Z of foreign exchange payments for imported inputs for
exports and for imports in the automatic list which do
not require prior import requests, and 100Z of the costs
of complementary computer and telex equipment and weight
scales and consultants' services required to strengthen
the Borrower's capability to carry out the Program
amounting to US$4 million.  Disbursements for this latter
purpose would not be subject to the proposed tranching of
the loan. The second tranche of US$248 million would be
released provided the review of the macroeconomic program
and of trade policies in December 1987 demonstrates
satisfactory implementation of the agreed program.
k2!sal Report: This  is  a  combined  President's  and  Staff  Appraisal
Report.
Map:              IBRD No. 12432R2.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$500.0 million in
suppcrt of a Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan.  The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The  Executive  Directors  have  received  a  report  entitled
"Argentina:   Strategies   toward   Industrial   and   Export   Development"
(5841b-AR), dated September 30, 1985.   A Public Sector Investment Review
(6354-AR) report dated November 17, 1986 has also been distributed to the
Executive Directors. The present report reflects the major findings of the
latter report and of subsequent updating missions. Country data sheets are
presented  in  Annex  I.    A  new  Country  Economic  Memorandum  is  under
preparation.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate popula-
tion, an export-oriented agricultural sector and a diversified industrial
sector.   The economic performance of the country has suffered, however,
from policy instability, economic distortions, and weak public sector
management capabilities.  Industrial production is largely domestic market
oriented, and available resources are not utilized efficiently.   Until
recently, the country also suffered chree-digit inflation.
A. Economic Developments of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies produced large and rapid fluctuations in real GDP,
inflation, the real exchange rate, the external trade balance, real
interest rates and wages.
5.        High   and   rising   inflation,   physical   and   technological
deterioration of the country's productive capacity, major dislocations in
industrial production and huge external debt service requirements resulted
in general economic stagnation, such that the real 1985 per capita GDP was



-2-
1 1X  lower  than  its  1970  level.    Heavy  borrowing  in  the  late  1970s
multiplied the country's external debt as a share of GDP sevenfold (from
10% to 68%).   Today, interest payments on the external debt absorb nearly
half of gross domestic savings, compared to less than 5% in the early
1970s.
6.        The productive sectorsp particularly manufacturing, are beset by
major structural and financial problems. More than 40% of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during the brief construction
boom of  the late  1970s,  is now  idle.    Most  manufacturing firms  lack
sufficient  working  capital.    Financial  intermediation  is  costly  and
inefficient, interest rates are high both in nominal and real terms, and
oversized banking institutions are suffering severe difficulties.
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.        A democratically elected Government took office at the end of
1983, facing spiralling inflation and growing balance of payments
difficulties.   Also,  the after-effects of the industrial recession were
threatening the solvency of the financial system.
8.        Toward the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15-month
standby agreement with the IMF and rescheduled in 1985 its external debt
wich commercial and official creditors covering its obligations up to
1985. The Government moved to comply with the conditions under the standby
agreement despite a deepening recession. However, during the first quarter
of 1985, the Government's adherence to the program became weak, leading to
a suspension of the standby agreement.
9.        During the second quarter of 1985, economic conditions worsened
significantly. The economy faced spiralling inflation while the recession
intensified. The Government then decided to abandon gradualism in favor of
"shock treatment" and set about preparing the country for a major change in
economic policy necessary to break inflationary expectations.   In June
1985, it devalued the peso by 18% to improve relative prices and introduced
a number of fiscal measures with the purpose of drastically reducing the
overall public sector cash deficit.   It increased prices of petroleum and
gas products and public tariffs; introduced a temporary 10% import
surcharge and a 9 percentage point increase in the export tax to reduce che
fiscal deficit; and cut expenditures in the 1985 budget by 12%.   It also
announced a freeze on wages and prices.
10.       These measures, which supported completion of the first review of
the standby agreement with the IMF, comprised the following elements: (a) a
drastic cut in the total public sector deficit (including Central Bank
operating losses) from 12.5% of GDP in the first half of 1985 to 2.5% on
average in the second half, with the deficit to be financed by external
borrowing, thus eliminating domestic credit expansion to the public
sector.   Further expenditure cuts were to follow the ones undertaken, and
lower inflation was to reduce the negative effects on tax receipts arising
from collection lags and also allow for lower nominal interest rates, thus
reducing interest service payments; (b) a reduction in the balance of
payments' current account deficit from 3.5% of GDP in 1984 to 2.4% in 1985;
and (c) a monetary reform that included the introduction of a new currency
unit pegged to the US dollar and a system for de-indexing peso-denominated
contracts.



- 3 -
11.       The  Government  made  substantial  progress  in stabilizing  the
economy during 1985. The annualized inflation rate fell from about 1,200%
in the first half of 1985 to 40% in che second half, as measured by the
consumer price index.   The consolidated public sector cash deficit was
reduced from 12Z of GDP during the first semester of the year to 4% of GDP
in the second semester. The deficit in the current account of the balanee
of payments was reduced to about US$1.0 billion (1.5% of GDP) from about
US$2.4 billion in 1984 (3.5% of GDP). As a result, the reserve position of
the Central Bank improved ana gross international reserves increased to an
equivalent of five months of imports.   The cost of adjustment fell upon
domestic interest rates which remained very high in real terms, ranging
between 5-8% per month, on GDP which fell by about 4.4% in real terms in
1985, and on income levels, with real salaries falling substantially. Real
GDP per capita dropped by 6.8%.
12.       In March 1986, the Government began to phase out the wage and
price freeze and replaced it by a system of administered prices. In April,
it introduced crawling peg type adjustments in the exchange rate system and
in public tariffs, and adopted a program to step up tax collection.   The
final tranche of the standby agreement was disbursed in June 1986 following
the Government's presentation to the Fund of a letter setting out its
proposed economic policy objectives for the second half of the year.  The
Government also received the final scheduled disbursements of new money
under the agreement with the commercial banks.
3.        Prices began to rise again in mid-1986, reaching a monthly rate
of 8.8% in August.   Inflationary pressures were rekindled by excessive
growth of Che money supply, the phasing out of the wage/price freeze, and a
sharp rise in the price of meat which weighs heavily in the consumer price
index.   In response to these developments, the Government changed its
stabilizaticn strategy.   It adopted a more restrictive monetary policy.
The Government also reaffirmed its adherence co a tight fiscal policy and
reintroduced price controls, adjusting prices in line with a targeted
decline in the rate of inflation to 3% per month by year end, but kept a
flexible price system in competitive sectors. These measures were combined
with selective liberalization of imports. As a result of the new measures,
the monthly rate of increase in the consumer price index began to slow down
and fell to 4.7% in the month of December. The overall public sector cash
deficit was maintained at a manageable level, estimated at about 3.9% of
GDP for 1986, as a result of improved revenue collections and expenditure
controls.
14.       During  1986,  the  economy  rebounded  strongly  from  the sharp
decline  in  real  output  in  1985.    Both  investment  and  consumption
expenditures  expanded  in  1986.    Although  the  tight monetary  policy
introduced during the last quarter of 1986 dampened the upturn in economic
activity, real GDP is estimated to have risen by about 5.5% for the year,
fueled by a very strong recovery in the industrial sector.  Real GDP per
capita is estimated to have increased by 3.9%.   The upsurge in economic
activity, together with simplified trade procedures, produced an estimated
24% rise in the value of merchandise imports.  The value of merchandise
exports, on the other hand, which was severely restrained by a
deterioration in world grain prices, has been estimated to have fallen by
17%. As a consequence, the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments increased to about US62.6 billion (3.8% of GDP), compared to
US$1 billion (1.5% of GDP) a year earlier.



-4-
C. The Government's 1987 Stabilization Program
15.       The Government has announced the targets and instruments of its
new 15-month economic program in a standby agreement with the IMP.
According to this agreement, the Government aims to: (a) reduce inflation
to about 40% by the end of 1987 vis-a-vis about 80% in 1986; (b) reduce the
current account deficit of the balance of payments to US$2.2 billion in
1987 (3X of GDP) from US$2.6 billion in 1986 (3.8% of GDP); and (c) achieve
a 4% real growth of the economy in 1987. The increased price stability to
be brought about by the program is to lead to a decline in real interest
rates and a recovery of private investment and growth, provided that the
external financing required by the program from commercial banks (US$2.15
billion) and multilateral and bilateral sources, including the funds
necessary  to  pay  the  payment  arrears  accumulated  during  1986,  is
forthcoming.   The program is designed to achieve its objectives through:
(a) a further reduction in the public sector deficit (from 3.9% of GDP in
1986 to 2.5% on average in 1987);  (b) a stricter monetary policy with
moderately positive lending rates; and (c) structural reforms in trade,
finance and public enterprise management as incentives to the private
sector.   The efforts to improve the efficiency of  the productive and
financial sectors and of the public administration will be supported by a
relaxation of price controls.
16.       In January and February of 1987, inflationary pressures rekindled
with consumer prices rising to about 7% per month.   Towards the end of
February, the Government therefore introduced a new package of economic
measures which included a wage and price freeze until the end of June 1987,
increased taxes and public sector prices, and also depreciated the Austral
by  7%.    Indications  are  that  the  rate  of  inflation  will  decline
significantly in April; the Government expects annualized monthly inflation
rate to reach,  and remain at, the target levels of its program.   The
Government also is pursuing negotiations with the labor unions and the
private sector to forge a social pact that would make these parties rather
than the Government responsible for compliance with agreed wage and price
guidelines.
D. Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
17.       Improving Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade
will  require,  in  addition  to  the    successful  implementation  of  the
adjustment program during 1987, the multiyear rescheduling of the country's
external debt by its creditors, continued lending from multilateral,
bilateral and commercial sources (between 2-3% of GDP in an annual basis)
and a substantial expansion in exports through the rest of the decade. The
1;87 current account deficit of the balance of payments has been projected
to be financed by "fresh" money provided by the commercial banks,
disbursements from the IMF standby, increas'ng disbursements of existing
and projected loans from multilateral and bilateral sources, and direct
foreign investment.   Based upon the timely adoption by the Government of
mediumrterm growth policies, real GDP is projected to grow on average at
about  3.8% per year during 1987-90.   This will depend upon expanding
industrial exports and increasing agricultural exportable production.   It
will also depend upon renewed private sector investment activities and the
availability of increased external financing over the next years.   This
projected growth will also depend upon improvements in budget control and
execution  and  upon  increasing  the  operating  efficiency  of  public



enterprises Important for maintaining the competitiveness of industry.
Under these assumptions, the current account deficit would decline from
1987 on, as a result of increasing revenues from industrial and
agricultural exports.
E. Debt Service and Creditworthiness
18.       At the end of 1985, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$38.7 billion. From US$8.4 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown more than fourfold.   The structure of the debt also changed
radically during  the  1978-1983 period.   At  the end of 1978,  debt to
commercial banks constituted 381 of the total, but this ratio rose to 60Z
by the end of 1980 and to 871 by the end of 1984.  By 1979, total debt
service requirements had already surpassed net exports, and, since 1982,
the trade surplus, although large, has not been sufficient to pay the
accrued interest.   Thus, when the South Atlantic crisis disrupted ncrmal
rollovers and lending in 1982, Argentina began accuaulating principal and
incerest arrears. The Government provided exchange rate guarantees for the
rescheduled private external debt and eventually assumed a large part of
the private sector's external obligations. Total external debt, including
arrears and private sector obligations, reached US$48.3 billion by the end
of 1985 and is estimated to have reached US$49.1 billion by the end of
1986.
19.       A sustained effort by the Government to implement domestic policy
reforms, including a reduction in the degree of trade protection and
measures  to  stimulate  competition  and  structural  change  in industry,
combined with externd.1 support from financial sources, should enhance
Argentina's export potential.  This should improve prospects for reducing
its debt-to-exports ratio from a level of almost 5 in 1985 to slightly over
3  by  the  mid-1990s,  its  external  debt  servicing  ratio  (excluding
short-term) from about 79% in 1985 and an estimated 76% in 1986 to about
62% in 1990, its external interest service ratio from about 50% in 1985 to
an estimated 49% in 1986 and about 39Z in 1990, and its total debt as a
percentage of GDP from about 75% in 1985 and an estimated 70% in 1986 to
about 58% in 1990. These projections assume that Argentina's external debt
to the commercial banks and bilaterals will be rescheduled through 1990.
Provided that the arrears are eliminated according to the current program,
the large debt amortization payments due in 1987-90 are restructured with a
modest increase in the commercial banks' exposure, both in nominal (about
12Z) and in real terms (about 31), and the Government's macroeconomic
program is maintained on track during 1987-89, Argentina should be able to
meet the servicing requirements of its external debt during 1987-1990,
including  new  borrowing.    At  the  end of  1985,  the  Bank's  share  of
Argentina's total debt outstanding and disbursed was 1.3%, and its share of
external debt service payme2ts was 1.0%; both shares are projected to reach
6.1% and 5.0% by 1990, respectively.
20.       The gross financing needs of the Government's economic program
(under the standby with the Fund) for 1987 are estimated at about US$9,600
million, including elimination of external payment arrears (US$480 million)
and replenishment of reserves (US$830 million). The Government expects to
cover the bulk of these needs (50%) through agreements with creditor banks
(rescheduling of US$4,100 million maturities due in 1937) and the Paris
Club (medium- and long-term debt service payments of US$640 million due in
1986-87). To cover the remaining gap, the Government has reached agreement
with the Steering Committee of its creditor banks on a new money facility



money facllity of US$1,950 million (US$1,330 million net lf payment of
arrears and repayments to other creditors is taken into account) from
thecommercial banks, US$760 million from the multilaterals, US$1,380
million from the Fund and US$1,250 million from the bilaterals including
US$150 million of untied financing from EXIM Japan. The Government is also
counting  on  US$125  million  of  direct   (non-debt  creating)  foreign
investment.
21.       The  commercial  bank's  exposu-.e  in  Argentina  is  expected  to
increase by US$4.5 billion and the World Bank's by US$2.5 billion during
1986-90.   One consequence of these increases is that the Bank's average
share of net disbursements during this period would amount to 37.8%
compared  to  62.8%  for the commercial  banks.   This  signifies  a large
increase for the Bank in relative terms vis-a-vis the commercial banks
because past Bank lending has been at very low levels while the commercial
banks had  been  rapidly  increasing  their exposure.    Consequently,  any
increase in Bank lending now cannot but result in a significant increase in
its exposure as compared to that of the commercial banks, although in
absolute terms it would represent a modest 6.1% of total debt in 1990.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
A. Medium-Term Framework for Structural Reform
22.       Argentina's development performance  over the medium-term will
depend heavily upon the, continued success of the present stabilization
policies and the implementation of structural reforms. Restoring domestic
and overseas confidence in economic management and renewing private sector
investment will require reinforcing stability in the policy regime and in
price movements, expanding exports and maintaining economic growth.   The
1987 policies represent a critical phase of the medium-term program, in
which stability would be achieved, permitting continuation of economic
growth as the country is reoriented towards a more open and competitive
economy.
23.       The Government has completed,  in close consultatior. with the
Bank, a framework paper that sets forth the strategic underpinning of the
Government 's economic policies and outlines the otjectives and content of
Ongoing structural reforms.  The Government has submitted the paper to the
international  financial  community.    The  paper  stresses  the  need  for
structural change in the public sector and a reduction of its role in the
economy, according a primary function to private investment.   The paper
repeatedly stresses the intention of the Government to open the Argentine
economy to international markets and to deregulate the external and
internal sectors and to liberalize external capital flows. In the area of
banking, the paper refers to incentives for promoting mergers and
acquisitions, strengthening the Central Bank's supervisory capabilities and
functions, deregulating financial markets and reducing minimum reserve
requirements and rediscounts.
24.       In line with the Government's program of structural reform, the
Bandz's projections for 1987-90 (Table 1) indicate that Argentina has the
potential to triple the economic growth rate it achieved during the
previous decade.   The projected economic growth depends on the speed of



-7-
a.ble 1: ARBENTINA - KEY NRCROECONWONIC INDICATORS, 1983-1991
ctual            Prelim.                     Projected
1993     1394      1995      1996     1987      1989      1989     I90       l9 91
SOP groxth rate                                     3.3       2.5     -4.4       5.5       4.0      3.7       3.9       3.8      3.8
6DY growth rate                                     2.6       3.4     -4.8       3.9       3.6       4.1      4.0       4.0       3.7
BDY/capita growth rat.                              1.0       1.7     -6.3       2.3       1.9      2.5       2.4       2.4      2.1
Consuaptionicapita growth rate                      1.6       4.3     -6.4       7.3       0.6       1.3      1.2       1.3      1.5
Debt Service 1/ 2/                                13303      9898     8139      6674      6374     5744      6924      7956     1499
Debt Service/XGS IX)                              133.7      96.1      77.6     75I9      64.1      52.6     59.5      62.3     62.1
Debt Service/JOP (U )                              20.5      14.5      12.6      9.5       8.5       7.0      7.9       9.1      9.1
Gross Investaent/6D1P () 3/                        17.0      14.7      12.9     12.8      13.5      14.2     15.0      15.8      16.5
Dross Domestic Savings/ffP IX) 3/                  21.5      19.7      19.7     15.5      16.5      17.5     19.4      19.3     19.7
National SavingsdG6P (1) 31                        13.2      11.0      11.3      9.6      11.0      12.4     13.5      14.3      15.1
Marginal National Savings Rate                    -0.49    -0.79      0.04    -0.21       0.45     0.51      0.41      0.37     0.36
Public lnvesteentiGDP (2) It                        7.3       6.1      5.6       6.3       6.5       6.6      6.8       7.0      7.2
Public Savinqsi6DP 1I                              -5.2      -2.2       1.6      2.3       3.0      3.9       4.3       4.8       5.2
Private InvesteentIfiP (X) It/ 4                    9.7       9.6       7.2      6.5       7.0       7.6      9.2       9.8       9.3
Private Savings/SDP hI                             26.0      21.9      18.1     13.2      13.5      13.6     14.1      14.5      14.5
Public Investment/private anvestuent 5f             0.8       0.7       0.8      1.0       0.9       0.9      0.8       0.3       0.0
Sovernment Revenues/SDP II                         23.6      22.9     27.0      25.4      26.5      26.4     26.5      26.6      26.7
fiovernment Expenditures/EMP 1/                    34.7      31.2      31.4     29?.4     29.0      289.     2098      28.9      28.7
Deficit (-I or Surplus (+)I6DP 11                 -11.1      -9.3     -4.4      -4.0      -2.5     -2.4      -2.3      -2.2     -2.0
Exports Growth Rate 3/                             11.5       0.2      5.9      -9.4      12.3      3.6       4.8      3.5       3.5
Exports/GDP 1X) 3/                                 14.7      14.3      15.9     13.6      14.7      14.7     14.9      14.8     14.8
Imports Growth Rate 3/                             -2.4       2.4    -11.7      11.6       6.9      5.3       6.0      4.6       5.6
Imports/SDP (1) 3/                                 10.2      10.1      9.4       9.9      10.2     10.3      10.6     10.6      10.9
Current Account Balance II                        -2461    -2392       -953    -2645    -2227    -1752    -1625    -1646    -1635
Current kcount Balance/SDP (X) 11                  -3.8      -3.5     -1.5      -3.8      -3.0     -2.1      -1.8     -1.7      -1.6
I/  At current US dollars.
2/  Excluding short term principal repayments.
3/  At constant prices.
4/  Includes changes in stocks.
5/  hinistry of Economy definitions are used here.
Notes:
Debt includes public and publicly guatanteed, IF, private non-guranteed and short term debt.
Exports and imports include gowds and non-factor services.



structural reform and level of external financing. Taking Into account the
heavy burden Df external debt service on domestic savings, the fall in per
capita income and consumption levels over the last decade, and constraints
on external financing, the projections are essentially based on gains in
economic efficiency, through comprehensive structural reforms, rather than
increases in investment.
25.       Specifically,  the projections ahow  the following scenario  for
1987-1990: GDP would grow 3.8% p.-. which would allow an increase inL per
capita  consumption of 1.2% p.a.   By  1990, per capita GNP would  reach
US$2,235 or 91% of the 1974 level.  Domestic savings of about 18% of GDP,
compared to about 12X of GDP in 1983-86, would provide the bulk of fixed
investment, which would increase to about 15% of GDP during 1987-90 from
about 13% in 1983-1986. The projections for 1987-90 indicate that external
lnterest payments would absorb 6% of GDP, thus creating a need for external
savings equivalent to 2.7% of GDP.  Exports would grow 5% p.a. in volume
terms.   Even with a projected faster growth of imports of 5.6% p.s.--
however from a smaller base than exports--the deficit in the current
account of the balance of payments would improve from 3.8% of GDP in 1986
ta 1.8% in 1990.
26.       The  projected  export  performance  would  lower  significantly
Argentina's debt service ratios.  The overall debt service ratio has been
projected  to  decline  from  76%  in  1986  to  62%  in  1990.    The  major
improvements would become clearly apparent during 1991-95, when around 75%
of interest payments could be met by the surp'lus in the resource balance.
B. Structural Reforms Already Undertaken
27.       The Government has complemented its stabilization program with
the Initiation of broad-based structural reforms in the areas outlined in
the above-mentioned paper, for which the Government has a well-articulated
schedule of implementation. Fiscal reforms include increases in excise and
income taxes and lower export taxes.  Tax collection improved through the
elimination of bank and stock exchange secrecy and stock holdings were made
nominative.  These measures were complemented, inter alia, by an overhaul
of the system of inflation adjustments for tax purposes, the introduction
of  a  presumptive  tax  for   small  taxpayers,   improvements   in  tax
administration, changes in the value-added tax and increases in public
sector  tariffs.    With  respect  to  trade  reform,  the  Government  has
introduced an automatic duty-free temporary admission regime with broad
coverage that includes indirect exporters.   It has improved the effective
exchange rate for exporters through reimbursement of indirect taxes and
elimination of taxes on manufactured and agro-based products.  Import and
export procedures have been simplified to take less time and reduce
paperwork.   Bankers' acceptances have been reintroduced.   The information
system for exporters has been strengthened. Imports for capital goods not
produced in the country, or which are produced in Argentina but cannot be
delivered on a timely basis, have been freed.   The Government has also
freed bilateral trade with Brazil on a large number of capital goods (over
300 products) and has also allowed the automatic duty-free import of all
inputs for exports from Brazil.
28.       The Government has taken the first steps towards financial sector
refo-m.   It has initiated a gradual deregulation of financial markets.



-9-
Reserve requirements on unregulated deposits have been eliminated, the
commercial banks' ability to accept free deposits has been increased by
about 40%, the limits on lending rates for loans Einanced through free
deposits have been eliminated, and the Central Bank is being reorganized.
BONEX-backed    (dollar-denomlnated    government    bonds)    inter-company
transactions intermediated by banks h-sve been legalized.   The Government
has also successfully introduced new medium-term bonds as a first step to
develop a  longer-term capital market.   With  respect  to public  sector
management, the Government has announced a major reform program designed to
improve the efficiency of the state enterprises in the telecommunications,
transportation   and  energy  sectors,   combined  with  plans   for  the
privatization of industrial and other productive parastatals.  The former
encompasses efforts to reduce public sector employment in the national
administration, to improve public sector management, and to create a
holding company to accelerate restructuring of parastatals.   The largest
public enterprise, YPF (state oil company), is to be reorganized.   The
Government has divested itself of two industrial enterprises and has called
for bids for purchase of Austral Airlines (which serves domestic routes and
has a 501 market share).  It has indicated its intention to privatize its
shares in the commercially-oriented enterprises under the Defense Ministry
beginning with the petrochemical companies. It intends to proceed with the
privatization of those companies in which it holds a minority position and
has presented to Congress a draft law that would allow it to privatize the
companies in which it has majority holdings.   Finally, with respect to
private sector incentives, the Government has indicated its intention to
eliminatz restrictions on capital transfers, encouraged private ports
development, opened 90% of the prospective acreage under YPF's jurisdiction
to private sector exploration and improved contract terms for the private
sector in petroleum exploration and production, and agreed on a framework
to settle a foreign investment dispute regarding ownership and operation of
the Center-West gas pipeline.
C. Structural Reforms Proposed
29.       Beyond the above actions, the medium-term macroeconomic policy
package included in the Government's medium-term framework paper concerns:
(a) incomes policy; Cb) trade policy; (c) financial system; and (d) public
sector rationalization.
Incomes Policy
30.        The crucial issue for the Government is, once the current price
freeze is lifted, how to phase out the system of administered prices or of
wage and price controls so as to permit a realignment of relative prices
without jeopardizing the control of inflation and the upward trend in
economic activity.   The Government  intends  to continue its system of
administered prices for those activities which do not face international
competition.   It has indicated its intention to set subsector-specific
ranges for wage and price increases in 1987; actual salary Increases are to
be  determined  through  collective  bargaining.    Prices  in  competitive
subsectors are to be liberalized (to date part of the petrochemicals and
wine and liquor industries), while prices in subsectors that need to adjust
to international competition over the next few years will be negotiated
with representatives of those subsectors as part of a broader incentive
package to prepare them for a gradual opening up of the economy.



- 10 -
Longer-term adjustment programs would be formulated, agreed, and timephased
for subsectors with severe structural problems (such as steel and paper
products).  In some subsectors (petrochemicals), the Government wants the
private sector to self-police wage and price developments while holding out
the threat of accelerated import liberalization.  The Government believes
that a gradual phase-out of wage and price controls is consistent with the
need to enhance the general perception of stabillty in Argentina (where
indexation practices are deeply rooted), and that it would permit
selective, gradual changes in relative prices; a different approach may not
be credible and would jeopardize the desired return of unregulated
collective bargaining.
Trade Policy
31.       Following the June 1985 devaluation, the country's exchange rate
was pegged to the U.S. dollar.  This policy continued until April 1986 in
the  face  of higher domestic  than  international  inflation.   Argentine
exports, however, remained competitive for some months (on the basis of a
trade-weighted basket of currencies) because of the devaluation of the
U.S. dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of industrialized countries.  In the
second quarter of 1986, the fixed exchange rate policy was abandoned and
replaced by an active crawling peg devaluation with respect to the U.S.
dollar. So far, the Government has been able to maintain the real exchange
rate, measured by changes in consumer prices, at about the level of the
June  1985 real exchange  rate based on a basket of currencies.   This
however, does not take into account the elimination of export taxes on
manufacturing and agroindustrial products, the reduction of export taxes on
agricultural products and hydrocarbons and the reimbursement of import
duties on inputs and reimbursement of indirect taxes on exports which have
served to offset the Austral appreciation for exports. With these changes,
the  real  exchange  rate has  improved  over the mid-1985 levels.   The
Government plans to maintain the June 1985 exchange rate in real terms in
1987 and review its adequacy on the basis of changing economic conditions
and  evidence  of  export  performance,  without  rekindling  inflationary
pressures.
32.       The  current  export  incentive  system  utilizes  three  major
instruments for export promotion: (a) import duty exemptions to eligible
exporters; (b) indirect tax rebates; and (c) credit at low but positive
rates of interest. The current system has many weaknesses which affect its
efficiency (para. 36) which the proposed loan addresses.   Moreover, the
Government intends to undertake a program to improve the operations of the
export financing system and other export promotion activities, streamline
Central Bank policies and procedures governing export financing and release
of foreign exchange, and implement measures to improve credit availability
to exporters.
33.       The rapid fall in reserves during 1980-82 led the Government co
put in place quantitative restrictions on imports. The Government intends
to undertake a phased elimination of import restrictions, beginning with
automatic duty-free access to iaputs required for exports (paras. 56-57).
In this context, recourse to tariff protection will be increased
temporar:ly, as most tariff positions are moved from the prior consultation
list to the automatic import list as part of a broader import
liberalization (para. 59) and then reduced gradually over a three-year
period  (para.  59).   The current  tariff structure is characterized by
moderate rates and a not very substantial degree of dispersion.



- 11 -
Financial System
34.           Central to the Government strategy is the restructuring of
capital markets for which a financial sector reform has been initiated. The
lack of a long-term capital market is a major factor constraining
investment financing for the private sector. Financing costs will have to
be lowered for producers to undertake the investments needed for increasing
Argentina's  competitiveness.    The Government's  objective  is  to  reduce
prohibitive operating costs of the banking system, gradually phase out
distortions and directed credit, eliminate Central Bank subsidies, enhance
competition among private and public banks, strengthen the liquidity
position of the banking system and simplify the implementatlon of monetary
policies.    For  this  purpose,  the  Government  intends  to:  Ca)  set up
effective internal audit and control procedures; (b) centralize rediscount
management; (c) strengthen its intervention capabilities; (d) redesign tha
deposit guarantee system; (e) reduce reserve requirements and rediscounts;
(f) deregulate lending and deposit markets; (g) narrow the differential
rate between the regulated and unregulated segments; and (h) restructure
private and public banks.
Public Sector Rationalization
35.       The Government has given high priority to curtailing the public
sector deficit to reduce inflationary pressures and crowding out of the
private sector.  It proposes to reduce public sector participation in the
economy, increase the efficiency of parastatal enterprises and enhance
their self  financing ability.   At  the same  time it needs to upgrade
productive support and social infrastructure for the needs of a growing and
more diversified economy, and to price public sector products and services
according to their economic cost. For this purpose the Government proposes
to introduce economic criteria and sector policies in a coherent multiyear
public investment planning and budgeting process; expand public investment
to strengthen key productive support infrastructure, review priorities in
investments,  initiate public  sector administrative  reforms  to expedite
decision-making processes and reduce staff, prepare training programs to
upgrade technical qualifications of civil servants, continue rationalizing
expenditures and strengthening tax administration, sell or liquidate
non-strategic public enterprises, introduce modern management and corporate
structures and practices in strategic parastatal enterprises, manage them
by objectives and control of results; give parastatals more operational
autonomy through multiyear performance and budget plans - "plans by
contract" on the French model (contracts-plan), increase cost-effective
provision of social services, and enhance the planning, budgeting and
financing capability of the Provinces.
PART III - THE EXTERNAL SECTOR
A. Background
36.       Structure and Evolution of Exports.   Traditionally,  the major
part of Argentina's exports has consisted of resource-based products.
Nonetheless, manufacturing industry has demonstrated, during periods of
adequate macroeconomic and trade policies, a competitive advantage based on
the availability of a large pool of skilled manpower.  Between 1970 and
1974, manufactured exports exhibited remarkable growth, evenly distributed
between  resource-based   and  skill-intensive  subsectors.         By  1974,



- 12 -
skill-intensive products comprised 34% of Argentine exports.  After 1974,
manufactured exports continued to grow in real terms, albeit at a
considerably slower pace until the erratic exchange rate policies and the
trade reform of the late 1970s severely crippled many export-oriented
activities.   At the beginning of che 1980s, the composition of exports
underwent a major transformation, with metal products, machinery and
equipment falling to half of their value in real terms, and resource-based
products taking up the slack.  By 1984, skill-intensive products amounted
to only 10% of manufactured exports.  In 1985, however, agro-based exports
and primary exports declined and industrial exports rose by almost half in
real terms. Metal-based products and machinery accounted for two-fifths of
the increase  in manufacturing exports.    The  total value of commodity
exports in 1986 is estimated to have declined to US$7.0 billion, which is
lower than the 1980 nominal value.   A major factor in the stagnation of
export revenues has been the steady decline of world commodity prices,
particularly for grains; floods and heavy rains also contributed to this
outcome in 1986.  On the other hand, the growth of industrial exports has
continued to be stymied by timid export promotion policies, the excessively
protective trade regime, and the continuing anti-export bias of the
incentive framework.
37.       Past Trade Policy Reforms.  During 1979-81, the Government, while
trying to control rising inflation, eliminated quantitative restrictions on
imports and introduced progressive tariff reductions p2,l passu with a
substantial appreciation of the domestic currency.   These measures were
combined with the introduction of a fully automatic temporary admission
regime which was improperly used by many non-exporters. As a consequence,
the country was swamped by imports.   The inconsistency between the trade
reform scheme and che exchange rate policy led co a reduction in
manufactured exports that aggravated the consequences of opening up the
economy to foreign competition.   The real value of manufactured exports
which had peaked before the introduction of the reforms still has not
regained its previous level.  Moreover, the physical volume of industrial
output fell by an accumulated 25% over the period of the liberalization
attempt.   Sector employment dropped even more.   The damage produced by
these policies went beyond the sharp reductions in output and employment
that--under different circumstances--might have been transitory.  Certain
industries were dismantled and some of the highly skilled labor force
emigrated. The country's industrial capacity received a severe blow, while
the economy's expected export reorientation failed to materialize.   As a
consequence, the manufacturing sector's current export capacity is probably
lower than it was before the 1979-81 reforms. It is noteworthy that, as a
reaction to this episode, the country adopted a more protectionist trade
regime than before.
38.       Permanence of Policy Reform.   Despite the country's  damaging
legacy   of  past  attempts,   the  Government   intends   to  pursue  an
export-oriented development strategy and to move gradually toward trade
liberalization.   It considers that vigorous export expansion is the main
non-inflationary approach that will enable the country Co resume
sustainable economic growth.   The introduction of a new round of trade
policy reforms cannot afford co repeat the previous mistakes, leading to
further traumatic output losses, particularly since the Government is
making a deliberate effort to regain private sector confidence in order to



- 13 -
induce a sustained recovery in Investment.   The private sector is also
determined to avoid a repetition of the 1979-81 experience.   At the same
time, the labor unions are likely to become significantly more belligerent
if still further reductions in real wages and industrial employment take
place.   Since past attempts to change trade policy have led to contrary
results and have lessened the country's development potential, it is of
utmost importance that the reforms supoorted by the proposed loan have a
lasting effect.   A more rapid import liberalization program would create
opposition (and damage) that would derail the reforms. A gradual approach,
under which  industrial  firms  would  first  benefit  and  br strengthened
through improvements in export incentives, to be followed by wider import
competition,  stands a better chance of success as the country becomes
outward-looking  and  shifts  its  strategy  to  diversify  exports.    The
recommended  policy and procedural  changes,  through  the revival  of the
industrial sector, should develop a powerful interest group which can be
expected to continue private sector support for these reforms.
B. Constraints to Performance
39.       Five sets of issues in the trade regime explain the decline in
manufacturing and agroindustrial exports and overall performance and
provide  the basis  for medium-term  adjustments.    First,  the  temporary
admission regime has been deficient and its value as an export promotion
instrument  has  been  quite  limited.         Second,  Argentina  has  been
traditionally protectionist. Prohibitively bigh tariff walls, quantitative
restrictions, and outright import prohibitions have been the policy tools
used  by  most  past  governments.    Of  these,  quantitative  rescrictions
currently remain as a constraint to performance. Third, the complexity of
import and export procedures has been an important factor deterring export
performance.   Fourth, export taxes have become a disincentive to exports.
Finally,  export  subsidies  create  distortions  which  affect  resource
allocation.
Temporary Ad-mission Regime
40.       Argentina's  temporary admission regime  (TAR) has been highly
restrictive since it has only covered imports that cannot be supplied
domestically or where the price of domestic supplies exceeds roughly by 3U%
or  more  the  c.i.f.  price  of  the  imported  good.    Thus,  a  strong
protectionist element has existed in the temporary admission system,
neutralizing a good portion of its intended exporc promotion value.  The
procedure has required a case-by-case review of the DJAT (Declaracion
Jurada de Admision Temporaria-a TAR import request) applications, causing
considerable  delays.    The  applications  are  reviewed  by  a  government
committee which publicizes and reviews the complaints of affected domestic
producers.   Protectionist  considerations  often  prevail;  standards  for
admission or rejection are not explicit.   In practice, DJAT applications
have been strongly contested by some producers who try to force exporters
to use domestically produced inputs.  The legal regulations governing the
temporary admission regime explicitly prohibited, until very recently, the
transfer of goods imported temporarily.  Some exporters have circumvented
this prohibition by importing via the TAR and passing on the inputs to a
supplier, who works in a made to order system; Customs has considered this
illegal.  In addition, a TAR could be used only by a producer who at the
time of importing inputs can demonstrate a firm export order or, a steady,



- 14 -
predictable flow of exports. New and occasional exporters were penalized.
Moreover, until very recently, Argentine customs laws did not permit the
temporary admission of capital goods unless these were to be re-exported.
Re-export of capital goods embodied in goods produced and exported has also
not been allowed.
The Import Regime
41.       Argentina does not have formal import prohibitions, except for
those related to defense, health, environmental, and other non-economic
considerations which add up to 827 tariff positions (covering about 3.6% of
the value of production--see Annex VII) out of a total of 11,490. However,
the trade regime does  include tariff and non-tariff barriers.   Since
tariffs are moderate, non-tariff barriers and administrative procedures
play a major role in restricting imports.   Although a large part of
non-tariff barriers do not take the form of quantitative restrictions, they
distort resource allocation and export incentives, while tariffs are wore
transparent, put a "ceiling" on nominal protection and are otherwise
superior.
42.         All imports require presentation and government approval of a
permit (Declaracion Jurada de Necesidades de Importacion--DJNI). For about
7,147 tariff positions (62% of the total) which accounted for about 48.5%
of manufacturing production in 1985, issuing the DJNI requires four
cumbersome steps in two different organizations:   (a) the application is
received at the Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE), where (b)
the data are entered into a computer data base; (c) the data are processed
in a computer located in the Ministry of Social Welfare; and (d) the DJNI
is returned to SICE for consideration of approval and delivery to the
importer. The remaining 3,516 tariff positions (equivalent to about 48% of
the value of production)--covering mostly imports competitive with local
production-are subject to more discretionary authorizations that result in
further protection from imports.   For most of these, the import permit
applications are referred to the producers' associations, which assess
whether there is local production available to satisfy the needs of the
potential  importer.    For  about  1,333  tariff  positions  with  partial
protection, corresponding to abouit 22% of the value of production, imports
enter the country after the issuance of import permits. For the remaining
positions in the previous consultation list, 2,183 positions, (equivalent
to about 26% of the value of production) the import restrictions are fully
binding as a result of the intervention of the producers' associations and
thus  imports  are effectively  prohibited.    As a rule,  the producers'
associations approve the issuance of import permits only if domestic
production is not available with little or no regard for price
competitiveness.    Although  SICE  formally  decides  whether  or  not  to
authorize imports, it seldom overrules the producers associations'
recommendations. In some cases, this cumbersome system of prior approval
may take up to six months.
43.       Openness of the Trade Regime.   Argentina's  trade  regime  is
moderately  open  to  international  competitiTn  when  measured by  tariff
positions included in the automatic DJNI list, based on their equivalent
value of industrial production (Annex VII). Goods corresponding to tariff
positions equivalent to almost half of the value of industrial production
can now be imported without any prior documentation (para. 59).   In the



- 15 -
context of the trade reform program, the Bank and the Government analyzed
nominal rates of protection of all tariff positions on the basis of a
three-digit disaggregation of the value of industrial production and of
tariff positions as of 1985 (Annex VII).   The highest degree of nominal
protection is found in processed food production, paper products, textiles,
furniture and wood products, chemicals, and leather and leather products
(Annex VII, page 2).   Although Argentina is quite competitive in food
production, its packaging industry operates at very high costs and the
GovernmenC maintains a very high level of non-tariff protection.   The
textile, paper, and chemical products industries are characterized by high
operating and financial costs, obsolete equipment and in some cases large
outstanding debts. The other heavily protected industrial activities face
strong competition from neighboring countries.  The Government has changed
Its approach to industrial protection.   It recently granted  temporary
five-year tariff protection up to 100% of the c.i.f. value of imports for
new production activities In the informatics sector. Tariff protection Is
to be decreased gradually from the initially agreed level to 50% over the
five-year period.   Nevertheless, informatics products and inputs can be
imported without non-tariff restrictions.
44.       Import  Tariff  Levels  and  Structure.    Tariff  protection  is
moderate (Annex VII) because the ad valorem rates currently applicable are
still those set at the time of the 1979 reforms, except for temporary
tariff protection for some tariff positions (electronics) granted in 1986
with a 1002 tariff rate.   Tariff rates range from 0 to 38Z, although a
small number of items accounting for about 1% of imports pay higher
duties.  In mid-1985, these rates were augmented by ten percentage points
by a surtax imposed as part of the Austral Plan. Data for 1985 shows that
34% of Argentina's imports entered the country duty-free; another 31% of
imports paid duty at a rate of 10% or lower; 12% of imports paid between
10% and 20X; and the remainder paid higher rates (Including 14.4% of
imports which  paid  38% or higher).    Overall,  the ratio between  tax
collections and imports for 1985 indicates  that the   average realized
tariff rate is 21% (including the surcharge).   In addition to the basic
tariff duty, the surcharge, and the value-added tax the importers must also
pay the following: (a) a statistical fee of 3% on the c.i.f. value of
imports; (b) a 12% tax on freight charges for the Merchant Marine Fund; and
(c) a tax of 0.5% on the c.i.f. value of imports for the Export Promotion
Fund.
Import and Export Procedures
45.       Automatic DJNIs.   In the past, the issuance of automatic DJNIs
was used as a non-tariff restriction to limit Imports when there was both
insufficient availability of foreign exchange and domestic production was
threatened by competitive imports.  In 1986, DJNTs represented less of a
bottleneck  than  before  since   their  procedures  were  significantly
simplified. For importers in good standing, Customs has now established a
simplified import procedure to clear goods from Customs within 48 hours
after their arrival. Except for the identification of the goods prior to
their nationalization, all of Customs' -e3rifications are made after the
goods enter the country, Any error or inconsistencies in the documentation
causes the importer to pay stiff penalties and they risk being denied the
possibility of continuing to utilize the simplified import procedure.



- 16 -
46.       Prior Authorization of Expcrt Shipments.   The large number of
public agencies involved in issuing prior authorizations of export
shipments  deters  export  activity.    It  causes  delays  and  introduces
uncertainty about shipment dates, thus increasing costs for the private
sector.   After consultation with the Bank, the Government at the end of
1985 consolidated all the prior authorizations required for export
shipments  into a single procedure managed by Customs.   A presidential
decree instructed the 30 public agencies involved to appoint officials to
work in a special area provided by Customs (the "ventanilla unicaT--one
stop administrative window), where exporters would apply for prior
authorizationi.  The Government has established that for any public agency
that does not send its representatives, Customs is to consider their prior
authorization as granted. The exporters are satisfied with the way the new
system operates.   However, it only functions in Buenos Aires and other
Customs offices in the country which have adequate telex communications
with Buenos Aires, which excludes 23 of the total 49 Customs offices.
Export Taxes
47.       Export  taxes  have  traditionally  been  levied  for  generating
revenues, largely concentrated on agricultural products. Most export taxes
on manufactured commodities were eliminated in August 1986 as part of the
program under the proposed loan.   Export taxes on petrochemicals were
reduced to 10X of their f.o.b. value from 30-70%.  A program for reducing
export taxes on agricultural commodities has been agreed with the Bank in
the context of the Agriculture Sector Loan (Loan 2675-AR); the Government
has reduced export taxes in line with the second-tranche conditions of the
loan,  although  all  conditions  of  second-tranche  release  (i.e.  the
introduction of the land tax) have not yet been satisfied.
The Export Financing Scheme
48.       The export financing scheme has been operating since the mid
1960s as a rediscounting facility in the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA).
It is characterized by inadequate controls, lack of automaticity, and
generally benefits only well established large exporters, excluding
first-time exporcers, small producers and indirect exporters.  Financing is
obtained on the basis of individual export orders and letters of credit and
BCRA does not accept annual export plans as a basis for establishing credit
lines, except in a very few special cases on the basis of long-term export
agreements.    Traditionally,  the  availability  of  these  funds has been
governed more by monetary regulations and controls than by the need to
finance non-traditional export growth. The amount of exporr financing as a
proportion of export value has therefore been characterized by sharp
fluctuations (in 1983, for instance, preshipment financing covered 21% of
non-traditional exports, compared with 34% in 1984; post-shipment financing
accounted for 28% uf all non-traditional exports in 1982, compared with 18X
in 1984).   More recent information indicates that the amount of credit
financing outstanding is about US$325 million compared to more than double
this amount during 1984. BCRA's export financing scheme has provided below
market, although positive, interest rates: 1% p.a. for preshipment
financing to Argentina's exporters for Australes indexed to the US dollar
loans and LIBOR when financed from deposits in foreign currency.   For
preshipment financing, the minimum period granted is 150 days. However, if
the export is not completed in this period, an extension of 60 days is



- 17 -
granted at 10% interest p.a.   Also if no export is made, the loan is
converted to Australes and the borrower is charged 1.5 times the BCRA
rediscount rate. The issue of interest rate distortions would be addressed
by a proposed Export PromotLon Project.
49.       The Special Export Program (PEEX).   In the absence of adequate
export promotion instruments and concerned about the downward trend in
exports, in early 1986 the Government introduced the PEEX to allow
duty-free imports of inputs for domestic production and for exports. These
benefits are avallable if the domestic producer commits himself to
incremental exports over the life of the contract.   Exporters are also
entitled to subsidies of up to 15% on the incremental value of their
exports.  The subsidy would be granted after the exporter responds to the
Government's invitatlon to join the PEEX in a given year ("llamado") and
the Government approves the exporters' proposals.   A recent analysis of
Argentina's export promotion regime shows that a considerable amount of
transfers and subsidies have been provided to the export sector, mostly
through export financing during the past several years.   The subsidies
under the PEEX were introduced as a transitory, notional indirect tax
reimbursement pending the introduction of a well designed indirect tax
reimbursement scheme (a new system has been recently put in place--pars.
58). About US$50 million has been included in the 1987 budget to pay for
subsidies granted in 1986.  The bulk of these subsidies will only reach a
very few large exporters (some 30-40 out of several thousand firms), many
of them multinationals and parastatals.   Moreover, many of these firms
export products for which  demand has been stagnant.   Their exports have
generally had slower growth rates than those of other Argentine exporters
who have received fewer or no incentives.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Loa History
50.       In the area of trade policy reform and export diversification,
the Bank has pursued two objectives: reform of the trade regime (through
the proposed loan), and support of key institutions in the export subsector
(through a proposed Export Promotion Project).  A Bank Industrial Sector
Mission which visited Argentina in May/June 1985 reco-mended strategies for
industrial and export development (Report No. 5841B-AR). These activities
are being pursued under the Public Sector Management Techaical Assistance
Project  (Loan  No.  P-4320-AR)  which  includes  an  industry  and  trade
component, and are analyzed in the FY87 country economic report.
51.       The proposed loan grew out of discussions with the Government
beginning in February 1986 on the policy measures  required to promote
export-oriented growth, to correct the continuing balance of payments
deficits, and to make the economy more competitive. The operation has been
processed concurrently with the Government's formulation and implementation
of a medium-term program of adjustment. The loan was appraised in November
1986. Technical discussions were held in Washington during February 23-28,
1987.  The Argentine delegation was led by Mr. Ramon da Bouza, National
Director of External Finance, Ministry of Economy. Negotiations were held
in Washington during April 2-3, 1987. The Argentine delegation was led by
Nr. Alfredo Garcia, External Finance Department, Ministry of Economy.
Supplemeatary loan data are provided in Annex III.



- 18 -
B. Relationship Between the Proposed Operation and Policy Reforms
52.       The objective of the trade reform program is to support  the
Government's adoption of an outward-oriented growth strategy focused on
improving export competitiveness and gradually increasing the efficiency of
Argentine industry.  This should reduce the negative protection to exports
while reducing the high positive procection of sales in the domestic
market.  In the interim, the resource pull--which is exerted by relative
rather than absolute protection rates--will continue co be strongly
inward, albeit declining. The trade reform program would also be linked to
the maintenance of an adequate exchange rate.   In conjunction with the
Loan, the Government would: (a) expand the temporary admission regime and
introduce automaticity and uniformity in its operation, moving towards
"free trade scatus" for exporters; (b) simplify the approvals and controls
of trade administration; (c) eliminate the remaining exporc taxes on
manufactures and reimburse indirect taxes on exports; (d) rationalize the
protection system through the gradual reduction of non-tariff barriers to
trade, including the elimination of prior documentation requirements for
abouc 7,847 tariff positions (equivalent to 58.5Z of the value of
industrial production); and (e) formulate an Action Program for the second
phase of the trade policy reform program. The program would also include a
pilot  export  promotion  component.    The  component  would  focus  on
preshipment financing to be provided to exporters to cover their import
requirements for exports and would be operaced as a special fund of the
Central Bank with commercial banks acting as intermediaries.   For this
purpose, an account would be created in the Central Bank for bilateral
parallel financing p2rticipacion in the component. The proposed loan would
assist the Government in the short term by supporting an increase in
imports necessary for the growth and export orientation of the economy and
at the same time improve the country's capacity co service its debt.  The
proposed loan would be the first of two proposed policy-based loans to
support successive phases of trade reform. The first phase would focus on
measures needed to strengthen exporc competitiveness and expand exports
rapidly while initiating a gradual process of import liberalization.   The
main thrust of this phase is to strengthen export promotion through an
adequate operation of the two TAR systems, initiate a process of removal of
quantitative import restrictions (QRs) over a three-year period and
eliminate trade controls. The second phase would focus on a continued, and
comprehensive, reform of the system of protection which would include che
gradual elimination of restrictions on most tariff positions and the
rationalization of the import tariff structure.
C. The Trade Policy Reform Program
53.       The program of trade policy reform supported by the loan is
presented in the Government Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment (Annex
V).   The measures subsumed by this program and the schedule for their
implementation are summarized in Annex IV.
54.       Macroeconomic Policy Framework.  The Government is complementing
its stabilization efforts with structural reforms designed to lay the basis
for medium-term growth. The gradualistic approach of the Government with
respect to trade policy reforms will require maintaining a viable and



- 19 -
stable economic policy environment based on concinued improvements in
monetary, fiscal, exchange rate, external accounts, and rationalization of
public investments.  A strong export orientation would be consistent with
its pro-export thrust.   An outward-looking development strategy must be
installed as a permanent feacure avoiding past abrupt policy swings. The
Bank shares the Gcve:nment's position that Argentina's economic development
strategy has to boe toward outward-oriented growth and that a viable
macroeconomic policy framework is essential to achieve the objectives of
the  loan.     The  proposed  loan  provides  therefore,  that,  for  loan
effectiveness and second-tranche release, the Bank shall be satisfied that
the macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the Government's
trade liberalization objectives (paras. 73-74).
55.       Competitive Exchange Rate.   The Government has accelerated the
monthly rate of crawl slightly above the differential between domestic and
international inflation.   At the end of February  1987  the Government
depreciated the Austral further by 7%.  The Government has announced that
it will depreciate the Austral by 2% per month during May and June while
the temporary wage and price freeze, introduced co bring down inflation,
remains in effect. The Government has also introduced an export insurance
mechanism to protect exporters from exchange losses. The Government would
demonstrate to the Bank, before the release of the second tranche, the
degree of competitiveness of the real exchange race based on adequate
export performance (para. 79).
56.       The  Export  Incentive  Package.    The  major  incentive  reforms
adopted under the loan with the objective of promocing uniformicy of access
to export incentives are: (a) introduction of a special TAR system,
Argentina Exports (ARGEX), which includes automacic, duty-free access to
all imported inputs required in the production of exports encompassing all
tariff positions and including capital goods, on the basis of a multiannual
export contract; (b) expansion of the standard TAR system to 6,600
automatic duty-free tariff positions pertaining to inputs required in the
production of exports.  Capital goods will remain outside the coverage of
the standard TAR.   The extension of the TAR would cover those tariff
positions which are used as inputs for exports.   It would not cover all
tariff positions currently in the automatic list of final goods. The
difference in coverage in the latter list is made up of capital and
consumer goods which have relatively high tariff protection. The exporter,
however, would have access to all tariff positions if he were to enter into
a multiannual export contract through the ARGEX. Both TAR systems include
autonatic access to foreign exchange, for transfers to indirect exporters
of goods imported under the TAR, and for occasional exporters to replenish
inventories  duty-free.   The Government introduced both TAR systems  to
ensure that all of the exporters needs would be addressed. The Government
would, before second-tranche release, review the adequacy of both systems
over time co ensure the automatic import of inpucs for exporEs.  After
being in operation for a sufficiently long period, the Government would be
able to assess their merits with a view to establish a single system. The
expecced effect of these reforms is an increase in imports and then a
subsequent expansion of exports since exporters will be able co utilize
inputs at international prices.
57.       Operational  Reforms.    Following  discussions  with  the  Bank
regarding the proposed loan, SICE and Customs procedures for exporters have



- 20 -
already been streamlined and simplified through: (a) drastic reduction in
processing time for DJAT applications; (b) doubling of the time span for
complying with the original export commitment; (c) application of more
uniform procedures to collect fees from DJAT applicants; and (d) drastic
shortening of the DJAT application forms. As a condition of second-tranche
release, the Government would demonstrate to the Bank the adequacy of
operation of the two TAR systems to ensure the automatic import of inputs.
58.       The Removal of Export Distortions and Restrictions.   As part of
the program under the loan, the Government has already: (a) eliminated most
export taxes on manufactured commodities; (b) reduced export taxes on
petrochemicals to 10% of their f.o.b. value; and (c) introduced an
effective mechanism to reimburse indirect taxes on exports. (The exporter
can  be  reimbursed  totally  or  partially  for  indirect  taxes  paid.
Reimbursement of 10%, 12.5%, and 15% of the f.o.b. value of exports for
specified export products is allowed.   Reimbursement in excess of 15Z of
the f.o.b. value of exports requires an analysis of the indirect taxes paid
by the respective good). The profitability of exports is estimated to have
improved by about 5% on average as a result of the elimination of export
taxes and by an additional 10% on average on account of the reimbursement
of indirect taxes. The Minister of Economy's Statement on Economic Policy
indicates that the Government will not provide further subsidies (para.
49).   For firms which currently have an export contract,  the subaidy
element would need to be eliminated when the contract expires.  Agreement
on terms of reference for a study on interest rates applicable to the
borrower's export credit programs would be a condition of effectiveness of
this loan and the Government would exchange views with the Bank
subsequently on the study's conclusions and recommpndations.   In the area
of export restrictions, as noted in para. 46, the Government consolidated
all the prior authorizations required by export shipments for the one-stop
administrative  window  procedure.         The  window  now  operates  with
representatives of only six agencies (Meat Board, Under-Secretariat of
Fisheries, Military Industries, Defense Ministry, Aluminum Agency, Army
Horses Department and Race Horses Association). Export shipments which are
not related to these six agencies do not require prior authorization from
Customs.    Twenty-five  institutions  previously  participating  in  the
procedure have de facto been eliminated. For the latter agencies, Customs
has agreed to supply them with statistical information after the export
shipments have been made. Customs is currently finalizing arrangements to
expand telegraph lines to connect  all of its  offices  by telex.   The
Government would commit itself, before second-tranche release, to extend
the telecommunications system to all 49 Customs of f ices and to present to
Congress, if necessary, legislation which would formally exclude those
agencies which are de facto no longer participants in such approval
process.
59.       Phasing  Out  Import  Restrictions.        In  December  1985,  the
Government transferred most tariff positions from the prohibited list to
the prior consultations list.    In January 1986, all prior documentation
requirements   were   eliminated   for   7,147   import   tariff   positions
(corresponding to 62% of total tariff positions) equivalent to 48.5% of the
value of industrial production.   The importer can now arrange external



- 21 -
financing with the commercial banks and imporc withouc any intervention
from SICE.  The rules for applying QRs have been tightened significantly in
favor of the importer through new procedures which:   (a) reduce total
consultation tine to 15 days from up co six months previously; (b) require
approval of import requests after 5 days (wichin the 15 day limit) if no
opinion is issued by the pertinent producers' association; (c) if the
association gives an opinion, SICE only has an additional 10 days to
resolve  the  issue;  (d)  put  the  onus  of  supporting  evidence  on  the
associations; and (e) specify that once an import request has been
approved, a precedent is established that will rule out any further
producer  association  intervention  for  that  tariff  position.           The
Government has committed itself not to change the new pzocedures for moving
tariff positions out of the prior consultation list without Bank agreement
or fail to enforce such procedures.   The Government has also committed
itself, in the Minister's Policy Statement, to transfer most of the
remaining import tariff positions in the prior consultation list to the
automaCic list over a three-year period.  These commitments also include:
(a) before second-tranche release, the elimination of prior documentation
for an additional 700 tariff positions (bringing the fully automatic total
to 7,847 tariff positions) equivalent to at least 10% of the value of
industrial production (the total equivalent value of production of fully
automatic tariff positions would then rise to 58.5%); and (b) to increase
by the end of the chree year period the number of tariff positions on the
automatic list to about 80% of the value of industrial production.   In
parallel, the Government would also move the above-mentioned 700 tariff
posicions to the the automatic list in the standard TAR, so as to give a
clear signal of its import liberalization goals. The Government would also
undertake the following studies: (a) effeccive protection; and (b) timing,
actions and effects of the removal of QRs, including the rationalization of
the temporary tariff protection.   The recommendations of  these studies
would be implemenced in che proposed follow-up loan.
60.       Reduction  of  Import Controls,  and  Import Tariff  Levels and
Structure.  Customs has initiated a program to simplify import procedures
which has already sharply reduced the tine importers require to withdraw
their goods.  The program is being extended to simplify import procedures
furcher, to increase revenue collection, to provide reliable import data,
and to detect over-invoicing.   SICE has simplified the paperwork required
for imports and exports, disaggregated tariff positions to provide
flexibility in moving them to the automatic list, and decided on pending
cases of tariff adjustments. The Government has committed itself to grant
a maximum transitory tariff protection of up to 100% for tariff positions
moved out of QRs.  However, at least 85% of the tariff positions eligible
for initial tariff protection would receive no more than 70% tariff
protection.   Transitory  tariff protection would  be phased out over a
three-year period to a tariff band with a 40% maximum and a 10% minimum,
the schedule for which would be agreed before second-tranche release. The
Government would also maintain some range of flexibility with respect to
the maximum tariff band since it has difficulties in assessing the
protection required.  Thus, for a reduced number of tariff positions (no
more than 25% of tariff positions which are given transicory protection),
the Government would introduce a temporary surcharge of up to 20% of the
c.i.f. value of imports ac the end of the three-year period.   These are
considered suitable as a means of phasing out the elimination of QRs. The



- 22 -
Government would also undertake a study which would focus on introducing
competition in government procurement.   The recommendations of the study
would be implemented in the proposed follow-up loan.
61.       The Trade Policy Reform Program - An Assessment.   The policy
adjustments needed to sustain medium-term growth Include trade policy and a
number of other reforms.   These have been outlined in the Government's
Medium-Term Framework Paper. As noted below, crucial trade policy reforms
will create opportunities for growth and employment based on Argentina's
international comparative advantage. In the absence of such opportunities,
it will be difficult or impossible to phase out most quantitative import
restrictions or to implement many other necessary reforms.  Moreover, the
gradual reduction of trade policy distortions will exert pressures for
change in the whole structure of domestic production costs and output
prices, and will thus serve to identify other needed structural adjustments
and to guide policy reforms accordingly, as the economy moves towards
international competitiveness and relative prices.  If trade reform is to
be successful and lasting, it must be accompanied by other reforms (paras.
30, 32, 33, and 34) to make the most of the new opportunities that will
emerge in a more open economy.   The reforms supported by this loan are
intended to strengthen export promotion incentives and to initiate the
process of import liberalization, but without creating serious dislocations
in the economy that might thwart Government efforts to make Argentine
industry more competitive.  Sased on the results of implementing the first
phase of the program, a proposed follow-up loan would support the second
phase of policy reform, focusing on completion of the process of opening up
the  economy,  by  eliminating  quantitative  restrictions  and  also  by
introducing competition in government procurement, and by rationalizing the
structure of import tariffs.
D. Expected Effects of the Policy Reform Program
62.       The Government's medium-term adjustment  program and the more
specific reforms envisaged under the trade policy reform program are
expected to have the following results.
63.       Growth and Employment Effects.  The projected increase in exports
and the expansion of capacity utilization and output of tradable goods
would be a critical factor in raising the rate of economic growth.  in
addition,  the  expansion  of  output  is  likely  to  create  new  job
opportunities.
64.       Reorientation  Towards   Tradables  and  Balance  of  Payments
Effects. The combined impact of the substantial appreciation of the real
exchange rate and the liberal import regime of the 1979-81 period
contributed to a 25% accumulated loss in the volume of industrial
production, a fall of almost 30% in sector employment, and the outright
destruction of many industries; capacity utilization in manufacturing
dropped to 60% by the third quarter of 1980 from the 70-75% range before
1979. In the capital goods subsector, the drop was even more dramatic. By
the second quarter of 1981, capacity utilization levels had dropped to
48Z. The continuing devaluation of the real exchange rate (because of the
crawling peg) and the improvements in the profitability of exports
envisaged under the TARs will go a long way toward reviving capacity
utilization and redirecting real resources to the tradable goods sectors,



- 23 -
particularly manufacturing and agroindustry.  The projected outcome would
be an increase in the growth rate of the industrial sector to about 5.6%
per yriar on average in 1987-89, compared toL the 3.3% annual average
decrrase during 1981-85.
65.       The strengthening of export incentives is estimated to raise
the profitability of exports of goods by 10-15%, improving the relative
profitability of exports vis-a-vis import substitution, and therefore
promoting the outward orientation of the economy.   While the share of
exports as a proportion of GDP is projected to rise only gradually, the
composition of exports would change significantly, with an expansion of
manufacturing exports offsetting the effect of falling prices for
Argentina's agricultural exports.   Imports, particularly of capital goods
and intermediate inputs required for exports, will also need to grow
sharply in 1987, but strong export performance is expected to compensate
these additional imports.   As a consequence,  the resource balance is
expected to improve in 1988.   Exchange rate policy is also expected to
produce, inter alia, an expansion in earnings from tourism and transport
services as Argentina becomes a wore attractive country for tourists. As a
result, the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments as a
percentage of GDP is projected to decrease from 3.8% in 1986 to about 3% in
1987, about 2.61 in 1988 and 1.8% in 1990.
66.       The projected decline  in  the  current  account deficit,  to a
significant extent the result of the economy's new outward-looking
orientation and the implementation of structural reforms, implies that the
growth of debt outstanding and disbursed, and of external debt service
obligations is likely to decelerate over the medium term.  Together with
the expansionary effects of exchange rate policy and of the incentive
package for exports, this also implies that Argentina's creditworthiness
indicators will improve significantly by the mid-1990s.
E. Social Impact of Trade Policy Reforms
67.       Social development, income distribution and employment have been
adversely affect d by the abrupt shifts in economic policy over the last
decade.  Social conditions worsened significantly as a consequence of the
1979-81  import  liberalization  and  of  the  policies  that  led  to
hyperinflation  in   1985.       Manufacturing  was  once  a  flourishing
export-oriented subsector, with export growth evenly distributed between
resource-based  and  skill-intensive  subsectors.    It  gradually  became
capital-intensive  and  slowed  its  absorption  of  labor.    Income  and
employment growth rates fell as the anti-export bias of the trade regime
and the capital intensity of production for domestic markets grew.
68.       The Government's medium-term strategy calls far sustained real
economic growth accompanied by increases in real per capita consumption.
An orderly redirection of Argentina's incentive regime towards a more open,
competitive, and productive economy is likely to increase employment and
real wages in those industries which are, or can become, internationally
competitive.    In  particulir,  it  is  likely  to  raise  investment  and
production in the more skill-intensive small and mediumrscale enterprises
subsector. Since the trade reform program focuses on a gradual approach to
trade liberalization, it includes lead time for firms to become



- 24 -
competitive.   Meanwhile,  the prior bias of a trade regime that favored
inefficient low-quality producers over consumers will be lessened.
Nevertheless, some subsectors or industries cannot be expected to become
internationally competitive under current conditions.   The Government is
planning to assist then in a medium-term restructuring of their
operations, and to support this effort with specific projects. Competition
will ultimately improve the purchasing power of the majority of Argentines.
F. Benefits and Risks
69.       Benefits.      The  main  benefit  of  the  government  program,
which focuses on the adoption of an outward-looking development strategy
that we support, will be an improvement in the balance of payments. The
program's success should strengthen the confidence of international lenders
and investors in Argentina's growth, balance-of-payments and employment
prospects.   The loan itself will help alleviate the current shortage of
imported  inputs  and  intermediate  goods   that  constraints   capacity
utilization and export competitiveness.    In particular,  the  loan will
promote the success of trade liberalization by ensuring the availability of
external financing for imports an a realistic and timely basis.   Also,
lessened protection to industry would reduce the anti-protection to
agriculture which could help offset the impact of adverse world market
conditions.
70.       Risks.   The risks of the policy reform program relate to the
possibilities of setbacks to macroeconomic policy that woula interfere with
a gradual  and sustainable  opening up  of the economy:  strong domestic
opposition because of difficulties in adjusting to the new incentives; a
failure of private investment to.-respond to thc. etport drive; or further
strains in the banking sector stemming from the liquidity problems of
commercial banks.  The magnitude of the expected benefits of the program
depends on its degree of success in expanding exports.  Also, the need to
curb inflation means that the Government will have to take difficult public
expenditure decisions, particularly with respect to public enterprises.
Unexpected adverse developments in the world economic environment could
cause Argentina's export performance to fall short of the projections;
output shortfalls arising from the stabilization process and liberalization
of tariff positions, followed by increased unemployment and decreases  in
real incomes, could create pressures on the Government to abandon its
stabilizatiou program and to reverse its import liberalization efforts.
71.       There are, however, a number of factors that reduce the above
risks. Most importantly, the Government has shown a strong commitment to
stabilize the economy, to undertake a medium-term program of structural
reform which includes implementing trade policy adjustment--by initiating a
banking sector reform, rationalizing the public sector, and increasing the
role of the private sector in the economy--and to negotiate a new standby
program with the IMF calling for 4% real growth in 1987.   Second, the
Government is committed to an active crawling peg exchange rate policy.
The implementation of this policy includes the continuous review of the
level of the real exchange rate taking into account, inter alia, the
differential between international and domestic inflation and export
performance and the follow-up actions to ensure its adequacy. Third, the
program gives priority to imports of inputs and raw materials required for
export.   This should give a boost to exports, domestic production and



- 25 -
employment.    Also,  the phased  implementation  of  reductions  in import
restrictions  and tariff  changes  is designed to allow firms  to adjust
gradually.  Fourth, implementation of the policy reform program should help
foster commercial bank financing to Argentina;   Fifth,  Bank assistance
through the proposed Small and Medium Scale Industry, Export Promotion and
Industrial  Restructuring  Projects  and  the  proposed  Banking  Sector
Adjustment Loan would support a positive private sector investment response
to the export drive.   Finally, a significant effort to diversify exports
should reduce the effects on export performance of changes in the
international economic environment and in the prices of such commodities as
grains, beef and petroleum.
H. Loan Features and Operation
72.       A Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan of US$500 million
is proposed in support of the speedy and significant advances being made by
the Government in adjusting its trade policies.   The loan would include
the financing of complementary computer and telex equipment and weight
scales.     The  availability  of  the  loan  to  accelerate  the  import
liberalization process, together with the accompanying incentive and
resource reallocation impact of changes in the exchange rate and the tLade
regime, are likely to soften the effects of the ongoing adjustment process
by increasing capacity utilization and expansion of tradable goods
activities. The loan would at the same time assist Argentina to meet the
Increased financing needs brought about by the decline in agricultural
exports because of falling prices, together with the imports required for
growth. The availability of sufficient foreign exchange to meet those needs
Would   constitute   substantial   grounds--in   the   short-term--for   the
sustainability of trade policy reform.
Tranche Release
73.       The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches and is
expected to be fully disbursed within 12 months after loan effectiveness.
The loan would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of eligible
imports.  Retroactive financing is recommended.  The Government was urged
to speed up the implementation of the TAR systems and eliminate QRs.
Retroactive financing would cover all import financing as of March 1,
1987.    The  first-tranche  disbursement  would  be  available  upon  loan
effectiveness.    The  loan will  become  effective  when:  (a)  all  legal
requirements are met; (b) the Bank shall have been furnished satisfactory
evidence that the Government's macroeconomic policy framework, including
its external borrowing policy, is consistent with the trade policy reform
program being supported by this loan; and (c) agreement is reached on the
terms of reference for a study on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, on
the interest rates applicable to the Borrower's export credit programs.
74.       The release of the second tranche of US$248 million, projected to
be disbursed in December 1987, would be contingent upon: (a) the Bank being
furnished satisfactory evidence that the Government's macroeconomic policy
framework, including its external borrowing policy, is consistent with the
trade policy reforms program being supported by this loan; (b) adequate
operation of the two TAR systems to ensure the automatic import of inputs;
(c) transfer of a block of 700 tariff positions to the automatic category



- 26 -
without prior documentation requirements equivalent to at least 10% of the
1985 value of industrial production. A calendar to reach the tariff band
would be agreed on. The Government would also move the above-mentioned 700
tariff positions to the automatic list of the standard TAR; and (d) extend
the "one-stop window" for the approval of exports to all 49 custom offices
and present legislation to Congress, if necessary, to formally exclude
those agencies which are de facto no longer participating in such approval
process.
Loan Disbursement and Procurement
75.       The bulk of the  loan  (US$446 million) would be disbursed to
reimburse the cost of the imports needed for exports under the two existing
TAR regimes, in addition to the import tariff positions moved out of the
prior consultation list during 1986-87. The remainder of the loan (US$4.0
million) would be disbursed to purchase computer and telex equipment and
weight scales of Customs and office equipment for SICE and the Ministry of
Economy and for consultants' services to speed up trade processing.   The
closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1988.
76.       Imports to be financed under the loan would be made by public
entities and a large number of private sector importers from eligible
sources.    Contracts  for the procurement  by public sector entities  of
general imports and of imports to be used as inputs in the manufacturing of
exports to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million or more shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding.   Contracts costing under the
equivalent of US$5.0 million would be procured through the normal
procurement  procedures  of  the  importing  entity.    Contracts  for  the
procurement of computers, weight scales and telecommunications equipment by
Customs and SICE in excess of US$250,000 will be procured under
international competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines. Contracts
for the same imports under US$250,000 will be procured through local
competitive bidding under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Consultants
to be financed with the proceeds of the loan will be employed in accordance
with principles and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.   Private sector importers
would use normal commercial practices.   All disbursements would be made
against a statemeut of expenditures to be submitted by the BCRA. BCRA in
turn, is expected to undertake the screening process to ascertain that the
above conditions have been met and to disburse the loan on the basis of
documented import payments from the commercial banks. The proceeds of the
proposed loan would be disbursed as follows: 100% of foreign expenditures
for imports in the DJAT list and for imports which do not require DJNIs;
and 100% of expenditures for computer and telex equipment, weight scales,
and consultants' services.
77.       Loan Channeling.   The Government will be the Borrower of the
proposed loan with the proceeds of the loan made available to and
administered by the BCRA, except for the purchase of computers and scales
to be carried out by SICE and Customs, respectively. BCRA will maintain
separate accounts to record and monitor loan disbursements and repayments.
All records and accounts related to expenditures financed under the
proposed loan, including those for statement of expenditures, would be
audited  each    year  in  accordance  with  sound  auditing  principles  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



- 27 -
I. Monitoring and Reporting
78.       To  monitor  the  trade,  public  invescment  and  macroeconomic
variables under the policy reform program, the Secrecary of Economic
Coordination will review progress of the program regularly on the basis of
the commitments under the loan and decide on appropriate actions to ensure
timely implementation.   The monitoring of the trade policy measures would
be based on a report  to  be prepared  by SICE  by November  1987.    In
particular, SICE would report on  the production value of:  (a)   tariff
posicions which have been liberalized under the TAR regimes; (b) tariff
positions for final goods moved out of the prior consultation list based on
their 1985 production value; (c) operation of the two TAR systems; (d)
streamlining of procedures to achieve full aucomaticity of imports; and (e)
streamlining of export procedures. For Chose tariff positions still subjecc
to import restrictions under the prior consulcacion list, agreement on an
Action Program for the elimination of most of them would be based on the
production value.
79.       The Bank will monitor the macroeconomic framework and progress in
the execution of the trade reform program through: (a) a review of
the macroeconomic policy framework as a basis for continuing trade policy
reform with particular reference to export competitiveness; (b) the
specific agreements on trade policy reform; and (a) regular supervision and
exchange of views with the Government.  The review of the macroeconomic
policies would cake into account the findings of the IMF on progress with
respect to achieving an adequate level of export competitiveness and on
stabilization. As part of this process, the Government would prepare and
send to the Bank two reports, summarizing the status of implementation of
the program, the first in Noveaber 1987 and the second one in June 1988.
The first status report should also serve as a basis for a mid-term review
which in turn would form the basis for the release of the second tranche of
the loan.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
80.       Past Bank lending  co Argentina has  been sporadic because or
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties.   In the period 1979-
December 1985, the Bank made loans for ten prrojects, tocaling US$1S,045
million. Bank lending since 1985 has focused on the improvement of water
supply services, development of the hydrocarbon and power sectors, support
for structural reforms in agriculture and assistance in improving public
sector  management.    The  implementation  of  Bank-assisted  projects  in
Argentina has suffered in recent years from policy reversals, cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures, curbs on public investments stemming from the need
for fiscal austerity, and the private sector's reluctance to invest *n an
uncercain economic environment. The Government shares the Bank's concern
about   this   situation,  which   has   resulted   in   unexpectedly   slow
disbursements.      In  response,  several  existing  projects  have  been
restructured to improve their execution.   The Bank has also instituted
procedures for monitoring monthly disbursements, and for periodic project
implementation reviews with the Government.  As a result, disbursements
under Bank loans tripled in 1986 compared to 1985.
81.       Promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
by the present Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems



- 28 -
give the Bank an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development.  The Government has requested the Bank'B
help in implementing a structural adjustment program and in preparing the
way for renewed long term economic growth.   Over the short term, the
Government is seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending
operations designed to enhance efficiency of resource use and to increase
the availability of foreign exchange. The Government has presented to the
Bank its framework for a medium-term economic policy reform and development
program.   This framework is envisaged as laying the groundwork for new
external lending to foster economic growth and strengthen Argentina's debt
servicing capacity. The Government recently presented it to the commercial
banks.
82.       We plan to use Bank analytical work and lending to support
Government efforts to achieve sustained and satisfactory rates of economic
growth.     Our  efforts  would  be  directed  at  enhancing  Argentina's
international   competitiveness,   improving  public  sector  management,
expanding  private  sector  activities,   increasing  domestic  resource
mobilization,  and  strengthening  external  finances.    Key  areas  for
cooperation would be reforms of: (a) the Government's role in the economy
-including public investment, public sector pricing, public enterprise
management, divestiture of public assets, transfer of services, and
central-provincial government interaction; and of (b) private sector
incentives, including the trade regime, credit availability, fiscal
subsidies, participation in Government-controlled activities, deregulation
of the financial system, and industrial restructuring.
83.       Economic conditions must now improve if the Government is to
overcome the opposition to structural change within the country.   The
necessary economic recovery and growth in turn require an increase in
external financing.   This external financing is, however, predicated on
implementation of the reforms needed to strengthen Argentina's debt
servicing capacity and to improve  the country's creditworthiness.   We
propose to help the Government with a balanced, broad based, and graduated
lending program to break this seemingly vicious circle.
84.       Our  lending  strategy  for  Argentina  has  several  distinctive
characteristics.   First, it is focused on policy-based lending and the
associated analytical framework.   Second, it is diversified to encompass
essentially all areas in which the Bank could support important structural
reforms.   Third, the program has been designed as an integrated whole;
while the loans are associated with individual reforms, they are sequenced
for synergistic effects.
85.       Our ESW has a strong operational orientation designed to support
a continued rapid expansion in our lending program. We intend to complete,
in the context of a CEM, an analysis of the conditions for economic
recovery and growth, to follow up on our recommendations in the Public
Sector Investment Program Review for making public sector investment more
cost effective, to assist in the formulation of a medium-term public
investment program, to support Government efforts to improve resource
management through an analysis of public sector expenditures, and to focus
Government attention on the social sector with a special economic report.
Sector work is concentrated on trade, financial, agricultural, industrial
social and poverty issues and monitoring of sector developments and
issues. The analytical requirements involved will be demanding, because of



- 29 -
the complexity of the needed policy reforms. We will therefore coordinate
our own activities with the work undertaken under the Technical Assistance
Loan, so as to extend our analytical leverage and obtain the thorough
knowledge necessary for successful policy based lending. We will continue
to promote the channeling of UNDP funds into acCivities that are related to
our lending operations.   We will also cooperate with  IFC in analyzing
Argentina's capical markets, and will coordinate our work on the trade
regime and the financial sector with the IDIF.
86.       The proposed loan would serve as an "umbrella" operation focusing
on improving the incentive framework while specific credit and financial
intermediary loans would provide financing to make use of it.  An Export
Promotion Project would provide working and investment capital financing
and marketing assistance to exporters.  A proposed Small and Medium-Scale
Industry Project would provide financing for working and investment
capital.    A  third  loan  would  focus  on  the  needs  of  industrial
restructuring.   A fourth loan, for a Pecrochemical Privacizacion Project,
would strengthen private enterprise's role in this sector by supporting the
privatization of public industrial enterprises. A proposed Banking Sector
Adjustment  Loan would support  the  Governmenc's  banking sector  reform,
whose emphasis would be placed on cutting financial costs, improving
intermediation and reducing controls on financial institutions.   These
largely policy-oriented efforts would be supplemented by a program to
improve port facilities and reduce transport costs in the port of Bahia
Blanca.
87.       Another lending priority is energy development.  In the area of
oil and gas development, the objective would be to support the Government
in rationalizing the scope for private sector development; clarifying the
roles of public and private enterprises so as to enhance the efficiency of
resource use; and establishing financing mechanisms to reduce demands on
the budget, expand production and reserves, and substitute relatively
abundant  gas  for  liquid fuels.   With  respect to electric power,  the
objective would be to ensure adequate and reliable power supply, restore
satisfactory self-financing capacity, to overcome the uneven access to and
qualicy  of  electricity   service,   improve   seccor   organizacion   and
institutional relationships, and co complete the YacyreCa Hydropower
Project efficiently.   To support these objectives, the Bank is preparing
lending operations for private oil and gas developmenc, and power
distribution.
88.       The Bank would also assist the Governmenc's program of reform of
the  public  sector.      The  Bank  would  prepare  a  new  policy  based
lending-cum-technical assistance operation-a Public Sector Rationalization
(PSR) Loan--whose role in the public sector would be analogous co thac
planned for trade regime and banking sector loans in reforming private
sector incentives and regulatory arrangements.   The PSR loan would help
translate into action the analytical work undertaken under the Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan. The PSR loan could in turn
lead to a new generation of sector loans in transport, power, and
hydrocarbons.
89.       Further, the Bank is planning to extend its cooperation into cwo
other sectors in which it has not yet operated in Argentina.   First, the
Government has indicated interest in Bank support for social sector
development, based on the work of two recent Bank missions.  Specifically,
it has requested assistance in the social sectors.  The main elements of



- 30 -
such an assistance would be: (a) a series of policy-orienced analytical
studies to define action programs for improvements in resource allocation
and utilization, cost recovery, and targeting of beneficiaries; (b)
administrative reforms designed to improve budgetary and policy analysis in
social sector expenditures;  and  (c)  training programs for federal and
provincial social sector managers. This loan would lead to a consolidation
of the present multitude of poverty programs and result ultimately in
sector loans in health and education and also to help pave the way for a
reform of the social security system.   Second, the Bank is preparing a
Municipal Development Loan in support of Government efforts to strengthen
provincial economic management. The loan would focus on the municipalities
capacities to plan, finance, and execute cost-effective Investment program
and to recover their costs.
90.       IFC  has  made  27  investments  in  Argentina,  totaling  US$287
million, of which US$161 million has been repaid, canceled or sold.   A
summary of its investments is shown in Anoex II. Promotional efforts are
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects, with emphasis on
oil, petrochemicals and related sectors.   IFC will also continue to seek
investments in projects in which its presence would facilitate the
formation of joint ventures with foreign participation and act as a
catalyst to atcract higher levels of commercial financing.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE [HF
91.       The  IMF  has  supported  one  major  stabilization  program  in
Argentina since  1984.    The  initial  15-month  standby  arrangement  was
extended and became fully drawn in June  1986.   in January 1987,  the
Government negotiated a second 15-month scandby arrangement wich che IMF in
an amount of SDR 1,113 million.
92.       There have been detailed discussions with Fund staff on economic
and sectoral reports, and on the program measures and the objectives of che
proposed loan.  The review of the macroeconomic policies (paras. 51, 52)
would take into account the findings of the IMP on progress with respect to
achieving an adequate level of export competitiveness and on stabilization
(para. 79), particularly as it relates to targets on net international
reserves, total credit of the Central Bank, net credit of the Central Bank
to the public sector, and the level of public sector external debt on a
quarterly basis.
PART VII - RECOtMMENDATION
93.       I am satisfied  chat the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 19, 1987
Washington, D.C.



*   31-
Annez.
mumIN - ECMIC Imicaim                                                             P~ag. I of 3
Mid-1933 Population foils.)      31
1985 Per Capita mime09:    213s
At. hare o4 Gross Domestic Product                         3. Irouth Hates (Iper aims)
(from turret urice datx)                                   (from cauhtant prime data)
1965     1973     1wo      1994    IYISp    196              19&5-73  197340  1990-14      19I5p    1596
Gross  omestic Product c.p.         100      100      100       100      100     1t0                4.5      1.9    -1.6    -6.4         5.5
ht Indirect Taxes                3.3      3.3    25.7         .         .       .
Agrculture                      15.3     14.4      7.3      12.6    12.6        ..i0                      1.5      4.0    -3.4        -0.9
I nd u4stry                     33.2     34.3     31.2     43.5     43.5       ..5.1                      1.5    -2.4    -7.3        10.5
(of ulnicL Namfmcturimg)        30.6     26.3     21.1     30.8     30.31       .                4.6      0.1     -1. 1    -10.4     12.6
Services                        33.2     42.5    45Ll      43.9    43.9         ..5.5                     2.3    -2.2      -2.6        4.0
Resource Balance                    2.1      2.6    -2.2        4.2      6.4       ...
Exports of DES          ~~~~~8.3  10.2     6.9     32.8     15.4       .                  .       04       39       59       -.
Imports of SIP                   5.6      7.6      9.1      9.6      9.0       ..                 .3      9.2    -14.5   -II?11.76I
Total Expenditures                 97.1     97.5    102.1     95.7    93.6         ..4.6                     1.0    -3.0      -7.9        3.6
Iotal Consumptici               77.7     I9L4     79.9     34.0      34.4       ..4.1                     1.4    -0.b    -6.5         94)
Privae Emsqtim69.4             67.5     66.7     74.7     74.4       ..4.4                      0.9    -0.3      -LI
Privrate Cwnsatio             8.3     11.9     13.2       9.3     10.L       .                2.4      3.9    -2.3       4.6
Girass Dometic Ionvetmen        19.4     11.1    22.2       11.7      9.2       ..6.7                     3.7   -13.9   -16.9          6.1
Fixed Investment             16.7     13.1    25.1        .         ..       ...                       5.2    -iL4      -9.6      -9.9
Changes in Stock              2.3      1.0      0.6        .        ..       ...                      -1.0       ..      2.       56.2
Grass Dometic Saving               22.3     20.6     20.1      16.0     15.6       .                5.3      2.6     46.7      -4.5     -17.1
Net Factor Income                  0     -2.1     -0.9    -3.4       48.2       ...                       6.9     45.9    -9.4       -26.2
Net Curret Transfers              .        ..        0         0        0       ...                       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
gross NIational Savin                .        .      19.2       7.6      7.4       ...                      -2.8   -13.1       -1.6     -10.3
In millions of LCD's               196      117      1990     1534      19350    1996.
lit constant 19K prices)           -          --     -        - ___
Grass Dometic Product          17347    24313    2326      26428    2521     2665                4.5      1.9    -1.6      -4.4        5.5
Capwity to Impot                1454     1591     1944      2305     2366     1918               1.3      4.2      2.0      2.6      -it
Terns of Trade Adjustamot        539      348        0       63    -234    -1123                  .
tross Domestic Income          193k6   24661    2926       26491   25212    22603                4.       1.6    -1.7      -4.3      -10'.3
Brass National Product         17347    24149    29M11    25245    24227    26261                4.4      1.9    -2.5      -4.0        3.4
Grass National IKcome          IN"I    24497   2300        2530     24171    2577                4.3      1.5    -2.6    -4.5          6.6
C. price Indices      -1 1 9 0~~~~~~1190  *100)              -                               Inflatiam  Rates Iip..
C. PLrice Indice1930                159      293      1194     1Ip    2996.            1965-7l 191-30  193-34         1935p    1986.
Coansue Prices (IFS 641             100    5414   2402.9   11462   13462   25635                     ..     34.    25.3      67.2        90.1
Eholesale Prices (IFS 63)           100    746.6  3441.3    23175   17680    29913.                        170.6    293.1    M2LY       63.3
Implicit GUP Deflator               100    521.7  2646.7   20007   156976         ..23.8'   176.4   272.4    684.6
implicit Expenditures Deflator      100    512.9  2604.1    19673   154210         ..23.9   177.4   271.1   fiB7
D. Other ledicators                      19*573             1973-90           1990-Ip
Srmwtk Rates 1I p.a.1:
ropu1ation                                1.5                1.6               1.6
Gross National Income p.c.                2.7               4.1               -3.9
Private Consumption p.c.                  2.9               40.7              -1.3
IaortElsijgt:  IW(MP)                        ..17.2                            12.2
Nartinai Savings Hates:
liosNational Saving                     ..-0.9                             -0.6
gross Domestic Saving                    159-0.3                              -0.5
ICM  Iperiod averages):.                                      -7.2                5.1
Share of Total                     1965     197      193      lIflip
Lahor Forcu n,n-                             - -          -
Agriculture                       .        ..      12.0     12.0
Industry                          .        ..     31.4     31.4
Services                          .        ..     56.6      56.6
Total                                            Ism.209   1092



-32-
Annex 1
RIITIMA  - ECKDIIIC IUIICAIIR                                                         Page 2 of 3
VIlm  Index (1980 g 100):                    Value at Current Prices billios USI):
E. hhrcadise Exports               I990    I192       1983     1984     15 p    199       1990     1992      1993     194      1985     1911te
Livedtock and Neat                  100    117.1      81.6     54.7     45.1     54.3      091      12       679       460      412       483
Caeals                              100    141.3    220.7    172.2   129.9   149.2        1631    121      2f93     2240      2263      1341
Other Aricultural Prodcts           100     76.6      67.5    143.4    144.7   137.9      1057      m        652      1235     1039      I090
Fats an  Oilc                       100     97.1    130.9    147.7   102.4    236.3        524      429      53       966      1009       655
lnuf. Food, leverage 1 Tbacco       100    115.6    145.5   141.6    146.5    152.3       1174      III      1147     1141      B45      1079
Leather amd Yn.l "roducts           100    10.1     7b.0      79.5     10.9    20.9      1029      702      525      617       600       591
Petroleu  and hineral Products      100    111.2    121.0    12 .4   256.2   ID3.2         315       II1     372       365      707       145
Cmuicals *d Plastics                100    104.2      99.3     "0.1   111.4      9.9       393      40       377      336       419       391
Other Hanufactures                  100    113.0    67.4       78.2   214.5    107.7      1007     1127      656       747     1104      1234
Total Experts                       100    115.3    121.6    119.9    130.2    116.9      9021     7624     7936      3107     9396      6997
F. Ntrchandise leprts
Fod and other coasuwr goods         100    27.4      26.0      10.0     14.3     11.4     1057      395      393       174      204       278
PtL ad Other Energy                 I00     61.4      46.4    50.0      42.6     63.7     1075      672      451       44       400       305
tirr Iprts                          100     56.b     50.5      54.4     44.0     47.5     7609     4270     3713     3927      3210      4117
Other Intermediate Goods         1OD     64.2     61.0      67.0     52.0     56.7     5217     3320     3073     3318    2b00        3367
Capital Gods                     100    40.1       27.7    26.0    26.6       27.5     2392      950      640      609       610       750
lotal Hwechandise Imports CIF       100     52.0      45.8    46.3      38.7     44.0    10541     5337      4564     459      3114      4700
C. Terms of Trade 11990 - 100)     1990      1912    I193      1984     IMp       MISSe
lurhb. Exports Price Inde. 1/        100    95.6      7b.7     OD.0    72.0      00.0
lerch. Ipwrts Price Inkx 1/         100     96.9      81.5    79.4      81.0     96.9
lerchandise Term of Trade            100    W.5       94.1    101.7     9l.9 S    2.6
IlS millions (at current prices):
H. blance of Paymnts               1980      1992     19B3    1984      1V5p   IfSbe
Exports of Goods ad  SFS          10765     9525      9512    10029    10242    9797
lerchandise (FE)                9021     7624      7836     8107     996      67
Nn-Factor Services              2744     1901      1676     1921     1946     1810
Imports of Gods and  FS          14024     7195     6591      6709     5091     7025
Nlhrchandise (FOB)             10541     5337      464      4584    3914      4700
Ntn-Factr Services              3493     1959      2017    2125      2D77    2325
Re rce Blance                     -3259     2330      2931     3319     4351     1m
:et  actor lncm                   -1531    -4719    -54D0    -5712    -5304    -4422
(starest per DoS)               1337     2435     2417     3277     4442      3438
Net Curret Transfers                 23       32        16        3        0        5
(srwers remittances)                  0        0        0        0         0        0
Current Accout Dalance            -4767   -2337    -2461   -2390        -953    -2645
len-Tero Capital mln l             418      7659      2M       -U       4792     4902
i,iret Imrestnt                  70B      257       lei      2W      S919      574
Bfficial Capital  rants            0        0        0         0        0        0
Net LT Loans (BB5 data)         2955     5756       972    -295      2770     1099
Ether LT infloms (Net)           545     1645      1639    -461      IrM      3129
Total 0ther Items (let)           -2217   -5952        -0      3143   -2965   -3125
et Short-term Capital          -1799    -44       -95    -1664    -2394    -4196
Capital Flons NII.E.0                       0        0         0        0        0
Errers and Omission             -437     -506       947     4807    -591      1061
Chanes in Net lerwves              276       651     -244    -265       -4        961
1t Credit frn INF                  0        0      1173        0     1007      146
pther Reserve Inges
/ - indicates incrsel           279       651    -1417     -265    -1871       822
shares of 0P:
Resorce Blance                  -2.1      4.6      4.5       4.9      6.7      2.5
Intrest Paymts                   0.9      4.0      3.7      4.9       6.7      4.9
Erat Account ialance            -3.1    -4.7    -3.9    -3.5    -1.5    -3.3
oandm  Items:
Intnuat'l Rerves (oil. US)         65       2321      1250     1457     3329     2506
kserves ind. Sold lsi1. LO)        6743    2X06       2671     2179     4749     3927
Official I-Rte (LCU'sJISSI            0        0      0.01     0.07      0.6    0.95
Jude  Hal Eff. -R  ase 1990         100    50.69    42.71    49.77    44.02
RIP (millions of curraet 1551    1522S0    50309    64934    69047   64I71    6
11  Central lank of Argentia.



- 33 -
AGEIITI   - ECEINIC INICATOR                                                    Annex  1
Page 3 of 3
Shares of GDP 1l)                                      6roth btn  17 c.a.)
1. Budget (specify level)           I"D      1982     1983     1904      1995D    19S3e          190  3 1_94                  1995     1911b6
Current Receipts                    35.6     36.6     34.3     32.9      39.4       ..              -t7                 6.3     I6.9
Current EKxpnditures                34.5     45.0     42.2     38.1      39.1       ..                1.0               0.4    -2.4
Current Budget Balance               1.1    -3.4      -7.9    -5.2        1.3       ..                 .              -25.7
Capital Receipts                     0.9      O.9      0.5      0.4       0.       ..              -23.5               0.7    103.3
capital Epuditur.                    9.6      9.6      9.5      9.0       7.7       ..              -5.9               -6.6     -5.7
Overall Deficit                     -9.7     -0.6     -9.0    -7.5       -6.        ..               -4.4              -7.0   -12.3
Official Capital Grants              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
External Iorroing lnet)              1.5      1.5      0.2    -0.4        1.4       ..              -52.D
Domtic Non-Dn  Financing             5.2      1.4     10.5      0.5       5.9       ..               19.1             -10.2   -33.1
Domestic Dank Financing              1.9      5.7     -1.7     -0.6      -0.4       ..                ..              42.9    -37.7
Nlet Dishurmen nts (US$ millions)                  Debt Otstanding b Disbhsed (USSi I.)
J. External Capital FImles,Bb       ----------------
and Debt Brden Ratios          1900 ll  1992 11    19B3     194      Y9SB    19965  190 0 I1   1992 1/   193      1994     1985P    1996e
Public & Publicly Guarnteed LT    1694       3345     3211     3401      2795     4910    10174    15890    35680    39161    41946      46756
Official Creditors                57       106      269     1090       672      592     193      1977      306      4150     422       5404
NltLilateral                    B6      119       74       90       341      437     1087     1321      1406     1496     1927      2264
of which IbRD               37        26       30       17       72       274      04       504      533       550      b22       896
of udich I11                49       i3        44       63      269       163      683      917      873      936    i205        1360
Bilateral                     -29       -13      194     1010      331       145      916      656      1654    2664    295         3140
Private Creditors               137      3239     2943     2391      2113     4220     8271    13903    32620    35011    37124      41352
lands                                             51      124     -515    -46         .                4208     4332      3917      3354
Comercial Danks & other      1637      3239     2092     2267     2620     4691      92i7    13i93    28412    30679    33307      3798
suppliers
Private tn-Guaranteed LT            1162     2020                                  ..      6593    11227
Total LT                            295      5365     3211     3492      2795     480    1,6767    27107    35600    392I6    4I146      46756
ISM Nit Credit                        0         0     1173        0     ID7       146        0        D     1173      1173     2180      2326
Net Short-Term C   ital           -1710    -5446      -935    -1664    -2394    -4196    10383    I6521       234      6570     4186         O
Total including 1   I& Net ST       1076      -1      3449     1917      14D0      770    27150    43629    45087    46904    49312      49O82
Dank and IDA Ratios                 2990     1982     1993     1994      1985p    9lbe         -
--  --  -    -  hotes:
tare of Total Long-Torm DOD
1. 10B  as I of Total               2.4       1.9      1.5      1.4      1.5       1.9          Data on the EComic Indicators tables
2. IDA as I of Total                  ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..          shluld folio. the definitimes ad
3. I9RD+IDA as I of Total           2.4       1.       1.5      1.4       1        1.9          cncepts of the Stadard Tables and
Sare of Total LT Debt Services                                                                  Standurd Attachments.  The indirators
1. IR10 as I of Total 21            2.2       2.6      O.9      0.9      1.0       3.1          should include data through te most
2. IDA as I of Total                  ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..          recetly completed calendar year 
3. IBRD9+ID  as I Df Total 2/       2.2       2.6    O.        O.      I2.      3.1           fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
countries). Staff estimates my he used
DOD-to-Eports Ratios                                                                            if final or preliminary actals are not
yet available. The use of estiates and
1. Long-Term kb/Exports           155.9    294.6    375.1    390.5   409.5    531.5             preliminary figures should be indicated
2. IIF Credit/Ebports                0.0      0.0     12.3     11.7     21.3      26.4          by
3. Short-Tern   btJExports         96.5    173.4      86.6     65.5     40.9       0.0
4. LTUINF'ST DOD/Exports           252.2   458.0    474.0    467.7   471.7   557.Y              e = estiated data
p = preliminary data
DiOD-to-GDP Ratios
1. Long-Term Debt/6P               12.0      53.9     55.0     57.5     4.1     66.9
2. If Credit/GDP                     O.D      0.0      2.8      1.7      3.4       3.3
3. Shat-Ters OEbtgDP                6.0      32.9     12.7      9.7      6.5       0.9
4. LTIIEWST D/OU1P                  17.9     96.7     69.5     69.9     74.6      70.1
Dkbt ServicelExports
1. Public & Suwanteed LI           12.5      23.1    100.5    266.1    115.5     65.2
2. Private Non-uranated LT          11.2     14.0
3. Total LT Debt Service            29.6     37.1    100.5    266.1    115.5      65.2
4. IMF Repurchases + Serv Chqs.      ..      ..        0.9      0.9      1.4       6.0
5. Interest Only on ST Debt          ..       ..       ..       2.6      3.2       4.6
6. Total (LTtINF+ST Int.)          29.6      37.1    101.3    169.6    120.0      75.9     --
It DRS data.
2/ Ratios f ra  1993 onards are taken as percentage of total debt.



34 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1987)
ARGENTINA
Amount les       Undis-
Loan No. Year   Borrower             Purpose        Cancellations    bureed
(US$ million
Fully disbursed loans (14)                              786.0
1384      1977    Argentina          Highvays           104.7          0.0
1521      1978    Argentina          Grain Storage       87.0         37.4
1761      1979    Argentina          Yacyreta Pover    210.0          64.6
1905      1980    Argentina          Vocational
Training          0.9           0.0 /2
S-020     1980    Argentina          Coal Exploration   10.0           0.5
2031      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas
de Desarrollo      Credit           100.0         74.3
2032      1981    Yacimientos
Petroliferos     Refinery
Fiscales            Conversion      200.0           5.3
2063      1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit II        100.0         71.7
2296      1983    Argentina          Highway            100.0         52.2
2592      1985    Yacimientos        Gas Utilization   180.0         169.3
Petroliferos      and Technical
Fiscales          Assistance
2032-1/1  1986    Yacimientos        Refinery
Petroliferos       Conversion       116.0          74.6
Fiscales
2641/1    1986    Argentina          Water Supply        60.0         60.0
2675      1986    Argentina          Agricultural       350.0        176.8
Sector Loan
2712/1    1986    Argentina          Public Sector       18.5         13.6
Management
2751/1    1986    Argentina          Power               14.0         14.0
Engineering
Total                                      2,437.1
Of which has been repaid                     597.3
1,839.8
Amount sold                12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8                  --
Total now held by Bank                     1,827.0
Total undisbursed                                          814.3
/1 These loans are not yet effective.
i5. Cancelled.



- 35 -                           ANNEX II
iage 2 of 2
B. STATEHENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1987)
ARGENTINA
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ million
Year    Obligor                        Type of Business            Loans  Equitl
1960    Acindar Industria              Steel Products         3.7     -      3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.      Pulp and Paper         3.0     -      3.0
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1961    Fabrica Argentina de           Automotive             1.5     _      1.5
1962    PASA, Petroquimica             Petrochemicals         3.0     -      3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/72 Celulosa Argentina, S.A.       Pulp and Paper        12.5     -     12.5
1969/75 Dalmine Siderca, S.A.          Steel Products        17.0     -     17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.          Printing and           5.0    2.0     7.0
Publishing
1971/73 Calera Avellaneda, S.A.        Cement                 5.5     -      5.5
1977/84 Alpargatas S.A.I.C.            Textiles & Fibres    28.4    2.0    30.4
1977    Soyex S.A.                     Soybean Processing   25.0      -     25.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                   Pulp and Paper        13.5    2.3    15.8
1978/   Juan Ninetti, S.A.             Cement and           83.0      -     83.0
81/82                                 Construction
materials
1978/   Ipako-Industrias               Chemicals and         18.3    2.0    20.3
79/82/ Petroquimicas                  Petrochemicals
87     Argentinas S.A
1979/   Alpesca S.A.                   Fisheries              5.2    1.6     6.8
83/84
1984/86 Petroquimica Cuyo SAIC         Chemicals and         41.8    4.0    45.8
Petrochemicals
1986    Inversiones Industriales       Money and              -      1.3     1.3
S.A. and Roberts Partici-      Capital Markets
paciones, S.A.
1986    Atanor S.A.M.                  Chemicals and          7.0    1.0     8.0
Petrochemicals
1986    BRSA                           Money & Capital       10.0    -      10.0
Market
1987    Hidra Oil                      Chenicals and        80.0    -       80.0
Petrochemicals
Total Gross Comitments                                      363.4   16.2   379.6
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                                196.8    2.0   198.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   166.6   14.2. 180.8
Total Undisbursed                                   116.0    5.0   121.0



- 36 -                      ANNEX III
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    7 months (February to August 1986)
(b)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 12, 1986
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:         April 15, 1987
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    August 30, 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
By December 1987, or other agreed date, the Bank would review the progress
achieved in carrying out the trade policy reform program.
Section III:  Special Conditions
Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) the Bank shall have been furniahed evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the Government's macroeconomic policy framework, including its
external borrowing policy, is consistent with the trade policy reform
program being supported by this loan (paras. 54-55); and
(b) agreement on terms of reference for a study on a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank, on the interest rate applicable to the
borrower's export credit programs (para. 58).
Release of the US$248 million second tranche of the loan .:xuld be
contingent upon:
(a)  the Bank shall have been furnished ev'dence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the Government's macroeconomic policy framework, inclu'ing its
external borrowing policy, is consistent with the trade polic- reform
program being supported by this loan (paras. 54-55);
(b) adequate operation of the two TAR systems to ensure the automatic
import of inputs (para. 56);
(c) transfer of a block of 700 tariff positions from the category of prior
consultation to the automatic category without prior documentation
requirements.  Such tariff positions would be equivalent to at least
10% of the 1985 value of industrial production. A chronogram to reach
the tariff band would be agreed on.   The Government would also move
the block of 700 tariff positions to the automatic list of the
standard TAR (para. 59); and
(d) extend the "one-stop window" for the approval of exports to all its 49
custom offices and present legislation to Congress, if necessary, to
formally exclude those agencies which are de facto no longer
participants in such approval process (para. 5B).



- 37 -                                hcaex IV
Pag 1 of 5
AIfl SER! QF NEASWES AND DGMMrn OF TAlE FUICTS
Before Seowd Trancde Release
Polcy Objectiues              Chmr Already Intro6xd                              (late 1987)
1.  IAOachoIC              (tl.a)       Fra4szEck                       (l.a)  rliay Fa
To support m                                                            0 Satsfactorw ases t of 1986
cutward-looking                                                            performance and 1987 plus in
deelcme2t strategy                                                         fiscal, ezdhmm rate, trade,
aid iitiace the                                                            public in tnent aid eternal
first phae of trade                                                        borrowirg policie.
refam; improve
resource use; redcen  (k.b) Eternal Capetitiveness                  (1.b) Eternal Ccaetitivenss
inflatim; redn
cra&in  out of the         0 AdtpLiw of cawlirg peg eMd'mr rate         0 Revise de degree of
financial imikets;           devaluatian; intzrrtim  of a                  aopetives    of the real
increase die                  edw4m to ptect exoters from                  e=amr rate based a
availabiliLy of               exdia  rate lsses; imrpzvemt of              adequate export perforuance.
credit to the private         the effective exdar   rate to
sector at oDre               exporters   a result of reimbursemnt
rcEal tens; and              of indrect taius, isort daties on
bild cyifidnce in           i3xpCS mad eliainatici of export tax
govenwit policies.           cn  nrfactured and agminduserial
gods.
D:. IRADE EHGlE              (2) Temporary Adaissin RegiLe (TAR)          (2) Teupry M        lm Ree E    A)
Support the first      (2.1) Standard TAR                           (2.1) Standard and Spedal TAIs
phase of the mjar
reforns in the           Ci) Cowna and Atomsticity                    (i) Coveraf md           y
external sector to
increase                    0  A autoatic TAR system has been          0 Adepabe opeutim of the
petitivuxss aid              introdicd. It does not require a              standard and special TAR system
profitablity of                ujltiawual export contract. It              to eure dte autamcic irport of
eports dr                    requires the exporter to be registered        inputs.
raticnalizatim  of            in &stoms both as an importer and
the proteccim                exporter. Iports enter the acntry
system, reforms to            dity-free.  hder dhis system,
the tempocary                requests to irport gxxd to prodce
adnssio  regiLe for          exporCs ([IA) are approved
inported inputs,              a ut      y  if die orrespcnilng
moing toarde free-            tariff paicias are included in the
trade st-ah  for             autosttc import list. 6,60D tariff
export indistries,            pcsitia  have been included in the
siaplificacic  of             automatic iaport list.
imparct and export
P-e
eliudnadxxx of export    (ii) L3&XML EAorters
tames oa mmnfactured
gods, and elimina-         0  tdifi.catiom of the TAR to peruit:
tica of non-tariff            (i) crasfer of the goodr imported
barrier  to trade.      u nder it; and (ii) that work assigxed
to third parties be performed ci
tearily iported inputs.



- 38 -
heare Sanad Trade Relese
Policy Objectin               Cwar Already Introdxced                          (ae 1987)
(iii)  Rapist of Stadc
o Dlbtic prodners to pay izyort
ta   m der irp a  becoa      e
ocflaRl eipqrtem cma no
replenis their Inutorie of
inported iruts at a datrfree
basis.
UV)           a PrOocdrs
o Procasing tie for import permits
bas bet redcied from ti antbs to
ti-three ueks in mst cam.
o Both tie ariginal export cd emmmt
and deadline etemics to the a_t-
went have beeo ezesided from 180 to
360 days.
o The procedors used to coflect a fee
frer all WAlT aplicants hanR been
adjusted to collect It daring usm
haor ited of two hais a wee ad
to pay by  edck rstead of ash.
o T7he la-'h cf the import request
(WAT) applicnnim form for teorary
adhssim  fWort permits he best
cut don frcm five to three parps.
o The torm  thath o be fioedct to
obtain the  ificati     f dthe
izpmt-utps coeffc[aba hs bese
(2Lb)  uly Ahmatir Special Tegrm
o Mie special TAR system *ii  Is fully
aitatic, cbtyifree ad oven all
isport tarif positics ixrludng
capital     A be best introdcdL
It requirs a ultLanual e2qort
cxntract ad a  umitnt to inrease
ezports ower the life of the ctract.



39                             AeK TV
Page3 of 5
Before aecond Tfrnche Melease
olicy, Objectives              aes Already Introduced                          (late 19V)
(2.c) AvailahLlity of Foreign Ekhage
o Cacral flak regulation astcrzirig
automatic foegn exchage alocation
for capial pods imorts nxder the
TAR rqgimes. Foreig  esduge
allocation for other inpurs is
o   OWX.wkai (dollardenminata
gorernent bmdx) inter-compay
tramsaccias lncemdiated by bans
have bem Iealized; and bankers'
aTpanes introduced.
(3)                    i    m               (3) ,Simpification of laort ad
B4&;xwt P 3B&e
o Mm oe-stop  huird strative  ird           oEt Endxprt *er stop windo to all
operates  ith representatives of six        omstans offices at presmt
agencies (Meat, Fsaheries, Military         lqislatirx to Congress, if
IrdsAtrlsm,  fense, Alunidnu, Anr          rnenary,  to ecclure agaries
Horses aid RBce Hrses). Export              wich are de facto no loger
shipets witch are not related to            participants in ch approval
rhnse agencies do not require prior         proces.
authorization any MDre.
o Detailed paperic  required for import
and exort procedurs implified.
o Special  ocedures allw imorters to
take their goods Out of (bstzas in 48
hurs after arrival of the gods.
o Inxiiation of a gcgram at (AitasL
intemded to further simplify iWort
procedures, increas reverue
collctio, provid  relable imporc
data, and dett mer-inuoicing.
(4) E t lEe
o Elmination of nost export rcaes o
ati miiies. RBdurti
of agriultural esport taxes to 7CZ of
their MNy l985 leel. Fedictim of
export tgxes on hydrocarbons to IY.
Introductio of at inirect tea
reaWIs =a ea eqomorts.



- 40-                              AmiexIV
Page 4 of 5
Before Second Trancbe Release
Policy Objectives            Onges Already Intmduced                           (late 1987)
(5) Subsidies                              (5) Subsidies
o No further subsidies under the
Special Export Program. For fins
which currently have an export
contract, the subsidy element would be
elimnated then the cotract expires.
(6) Ratinalization of the Protection        (6) Rationalization of the Protection
System                                      System
o Elination cf requiremnt of prior          0 Transfer of a blocd of 700 tariff
cmntation for 7,147 tariff                 positions, equivalent at lest
positions, equivalent to 48.5 of the        10% of the 1985 walue of
value of production.                        inustrial production to the
aitomtic import list. For those
positios for which taporary
additiaxnl tariff protection is
required, the Gorm=mt would
lacease import tariffs up to a
wdium  of 100% of the c.i.f.
waue of imports and wmld
establish a tariff bard with a
40% axis aM  10% mInima to be
achieved gradually oer a
hre-year period. At least 85%
of the amber of tariff po6itions
would be subject to a  mumdmzm
import tariff rate not eneeding
75Z. Mhe Goveriment would also
maintain saw range of
flexibility with respect to the
sxdmm tariff in the badn, since
it has diffiaclties in assessing
the tariff protection required.
hus, for a reduced amter of
tariff positions, the Government
w.uld introduce a temporary
surcarge. A chronogram to reach
the tariff bnd would be agreed
on. Die above-metioned 700
tariff positions would als be
wDved to the aitatic list in
the TAR.



-41 -                              AnexIV
Pa 5 of 5
Before Seond Tcandie Release
Policy Objectives             aags Already Intrcdacd                             (late 1987)
0 Cattmsent in the Minister of Eacnoy
Pblicy Statempt to an Action Program
on the basis of inAistrial prodictim
wnlue for the second-phase of trade
policy reform. This todd set the
basis for a second Trade Policy loan,
cawisteit with: (a) the elzidacim
of mot iqort natariff restrictions
over a thne-year Period; and (b)
teirnhry tariff protectin required
and the phasing cut of sudc protectim
over a three-war perio
0 5-day deadlines established for
opinicris of the prod&ceus'
ao-imticrs with respect to tariff
positi   in prior consultation list,
and inro&ccian of procedres relaced
to: (a) the participatim of the
prodKers' associations in the prior
c-sultatiais; (b) a meximm 15-day
tine period for the whole process of
cimltatim; and (c) elimdnrtim of
the tariff positions form tie prior
1cwsakatic list and their trasfer
to the aosamtic DINt list once
ispots in those tariff position are
approved. Government camittent not
to derW these new proceczres wirhout
Bait agmemst or fail to enforce such
o Taiff pcsitkics where there are many
different products included under one
categxy have been disaggregted to
provide flexibility in mnvng tariff
pcsitions to aAtmatic DJNIs.
o Peidfr.g cases of uriff adjustants
have been decided.
o Trade with Brazil a been freed on a
]ar numer of capital g~ods and on
all inputs for exports.



- 42 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 9
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AID 1iPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re: Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment
The Government of Argentina wishes to request a World Bank loan
to support a trade policy and export diversification program.
The main objective of this ongoing program is to revitalize
growth and employment generation over the medium term, to strengthen the
incentive system towards the adoption of a comprehensive export-oriented
development strategy, to increase the productive efficiency of Argentine
industry, and to redress the balance of payments problems.  To this end,
exchange rate policy plays a major role; the system of export incentives is
being strengthened; import protection is being rationalized; quantitative
and other restrictions to trade are being phased out; and various
administrative obstacles to good export performance are being eliminated.
A process of medium-term structural reform has been initiated and
particular emphasis has been given to the support of programs to promote
growth, employment and poverty alleviation.
Before going Lnto the specific action programs through which the
policy changes will be instituted, let me refer to several other
interrelated matters dealing with efforts to arrest inflation and promote
growth and some of their side effects; and to the ongoing adjustment
efforts of the Government that, to a considerable extent, provide the
macroeconomic framework for the trade policy reforms that the Government
has been adopting.
A. Adjustment Patterns mf the Argentine Economy
Argentina has undergone a long period of very high rates of
inflation. Over the last 10 years, price increases have averaged a monthly
rate of 11%. As can be expected during this period of high inflation, a
number of different stabilization programs were implemented. However, they
did not achieve the expected results. The continuous changes in economic
policies have in themselves been a source of significant instability.
When the constitutional Government took office in December of
1983, inflation had already risen above 17% a month.   Moreover, strong
inflationary  forces  wera  already  at  work.         First,  the  previous
administration had ended its period with a huge fiscal deficit amounting to
16% of  the GDP.    Second,  most  social groups  had  been demanding  an
improvement in living standards after a long period of economic
stagnation. Third, the heavy burden of the country's external debt had



- 43 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 9
increased the Government's financing requirements and limited the growth
potential of the economy, adding to inflationary pressures.
The Government initially adopted a gradualist approach, aimed at
reducing  inflation  steadily  withour  major  disruptions  of  economic
activity.   Thus, in 1984, real output recovered slightly.   Inflation,
however, continued with a rising trend.  It thus became evident that the
economy would not be able to function with such high levels of inflation.
Individuals and firms were unable to plan beyond the very short term. As a
consequence, investment and production were significantly affected.   The
Government recognized that price stabilization had to take place quickly; a
slow reduction of inflation would be very difficult to manage and would
subject the economy to a long period of unstable prices and reduced
economic activity.   Thus, price stability became a sine  ua non for a
sustainable recovery.
B. The 1985 Adjustment Program
In June 1985 the Government introduced the "Plan Austral"
economic program.  This combined conventional policies to impact demand
with instruments to neutralize the undesired distributive effects of the
abrupt fall in inflation. As regards demand control, the objective was to
reduce the public sector deficit from 12% of GDP in the first half of 1985
to 2.5% of GDP in the second half of the year.  Specific actions included:
(a) increasing the real public sector prices and tariffs; (b) an 18%
increase in the rate of exchange, along with an equivalent increase in
export taxes; (c) a temporary 10% surcharge on imports; (d) the submission
to Congress for approval of new legislation on direct taxes, including a
"forced loan" to the Government from both individuals and firms; and (e)
the limitation of public expenditure, although massive unemployment and
cuts in social programs were avoided.
The cornerstone of the stabilization policy was a temporary
freeze on prices and wages. An immediate and major reduction in the growth
rate of prices was the initial step in halting the momentum of inflation,
through a reduction in inflationary inertia. In the longer term, reduced
inflationary expectations would increase the demand for financial assets,
thereby easing monetary pressures. To give credibility -to this approach,
the Government announced that from July 1985 onwards the public sector
deficit would only be financed from external sources. Finally, a new
currency, the Austral, was introduced, with an Austral equivalent to
US$1.25.
The Argentine people supported the economic program strongly and
the economy reacted vigorously. The most dramatic success was probably the
sharp fall in the monthly inflation rate from 30.1% in June 1985 to 6.2% in
July, 3.1% in August, and 2% in September; the rate varied between 3% and
4% between October and February 1986. In March 1986 the inflation rate was
slightly higher at about 4% per month, reflecting the gradual elimination
of the price freeze. The performance of the non-financial public sector
also improved considerably; even when the efforts to cut costs did not
produce immediate results, the rapid increase in receipts brought about a
matching fall of 5 to 6 percentage points in the deficit as a proportion of
GDP in the last two quarters of 1985. The high degree of public confidence



- 44' -
Annex V
Page 3 of 9
in the economic program and the Government's promise not to expand domestic
credit to finance the public sector deficit led to an increase in the
demand  for  financial  assets.        Real  rates  of  interest  increased
substantially and the subsequent remonetization of the economy helped to
lower the rate of inflation.   The external sector was affected by the
unfavorable price trends in international markets for the agricultural
products exported by Argentina.  Even se, the balance of payments deficit
on current account was cut by more than half, from almost US$2,400 million
in 1984 to slightly over US$1 ,000 millinn in 1985 as a result of an import
compression.   Growth,  however,  was affected,  dropping by 4.8% in real
terms.
C. Recent Adjustment Efforts
An inflationary trend became apparent from July 1986 onwards. It
led the consumer price index to rise by B.8% during August and was higher
than the average rate of increase recorded throush March 1986 (4).   a
number of factors contributed to the revival of inflation.  Some of these
had been present since the start of the Plan Austral, as was the case of
foodstuff supplies.   The elimination of the inflation tax raised the
purchasing power of consumers, especially  in low-income sectors.   The
growth of demand helped restore economic activity but also put pressure on
prices, since the supply of foodstuffs did not increase in parallel.  An
example of this phenomenon was meat, where prices rc"e mr,ih more than the
average consumer price increase as a result of th             ween supply and
demand.
To these difficulties must be added certain problems with the
policy of price deregulation launched in April 1906.  The mechanism of
administered price3 was designed to adjust prices, wages, tariffs, and the
exchange rate in such a way as to keep inflation at low monthly levels
without bringing about a recession.   It was also supposed to provide
sufficient nexibility to allow relative price movements. In this context,
the rate of inflation came to depend very largely on the results of wage
negotiations.  The available data indicates that wage adjustments in many
cases exceeded those authorized and that many labor unions achieved
agreements outside the authorized wage bands. These increases stimulated
demand and helped fuel inflation.   The inflationary  trends were also
strengthened by seasonal increases in the price of meat and of some
services (health and tourism).
Monetary policy, which was appropriate and successful from the
early stages of the Plan Austral up to July 1986, became lax as a result of
the increase in international reserves and the Central Bank's rediscount
policy.   The expansion of the money supply above the target level also
reflected the difficulty of implementing an active monetary policy in the
context  of an  unbalanced productive  and financial environment.   This
forced the Government to continue adopting regulatory measures.  A series
of measures were introduced in September to control administered prices,
public service tariffs, the exchange rate, wages, and the growth of the
money supply.   As a result, monthly price increases decelerated to 4.7% by
year-end. Growth, on the other hand, expanded vigorously, by about 5.5% in
real terms for the year.



- 45 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 9
In January and February of 1987, however, inflationary pressures
rekindled with consumer prices rising to about 7% per month.  Towards the
end of February the Government introduced a package of economic measures
which included a wage and price freeze until the end of June 1987,
increased taxes and public sector prices, and also depreciated the Austral
by 7%.
D. Elements Necessary for a Viable Macroeconomic Framework for Trade
Reform
Following the expected relaxation of the wage and price freeze,
by the end of June 1987, the Government intends to carry out a selective
deregulation of prices in activities where a certain level of competition
already exists. In other areas it will introduce procedures for collective
agreements under guidelines laid down by the Government. Finally, in cases
where there are public service tariffs, imports and prices, it will replace
the  existing  price  and  wage  controls  with  collective  bargaining
agreements. It also intends to maintain the real exchange rate at levels
which will ensure the competitiveness of exports.   Meanwhile a proper
control of the money supply will make it possible to maintain positive but
moderate real interest rates.
Recent macroeconomic trends indicate that Argentina's economy
will continue to recover.   The achievements of the stabilization program
will be consolidated through the measures adopted in August 1986.
Moreover, the Government intends to implement the medium-term policies
required to promote sustained economic growth.
E. A Viable Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
To put Argentina back on the path of sustained economic growth
within a framework of stability we must advance on several complementary
fronts.  In the very short term, the country faces a difficult financial
situation, which is substantially exacerbated by the size of our external
debt (for which the State is now almost entirely responsible). The present
Constitutional Government is not in a position to act as an entrepreneur/
producer State, or to be the provider of massive subsidies as in the past.
It is therefore necessary to redefine its functions in the context of a
strategy for economic growth in which private investment must play a
fundamental role.
This process of functional redefinition must include the reform
of state enterprises.  The initial step of promoting transfers of public
assets to the private sector is guided by two basic principles: first,
ensuring that these transfers do not entail the privatization of
monopolies, but instead involve the progressive deregulation of the
relevant  activities,  in  order  to  increase  competition  and  improve
efficiency; and second, ensuring that funds generated by transferring
public sector assets to the private sector are used to promote new,
high-priority productive activities.   The next step along the path of
reform will involve those enterprises that are to remain under state
control; it will be designed to provide greater flexibility in terms of
both their management and their financial, labor and marketing policies.
These reforms are dictated not only by the need to increase efficiency but



- 46 -
Annex V
Page 5 of 9
by  the more  fundamental need  to  redefine  the State' s  functions  and
responsibilities as part of an approach that assigns to private investment
the principal role in attaining longer-term development.
The  impact  of  external  debt  service  payments  on  public
finances has reduced current government savings, and has brought about a
sharp fall in the level of public investment since 1981.  This reduction
has had three direct consequences: (a) lengthening the execution of
projects  already  begun;  (b)  suspension  of  new  projects;  and  (c)
restrictions on the maintenance and replacement of existing works and
equipment.  As a result, decisions have been taken on a case-by-case basis
to ensure the operation of existing infrastructure, to continue projects in
execution with the highest rates of return, and to include only those
projects which (as in the cases of gas and telecommunications) were of
central importance to successful structural reform. There is currently a
portfolio of productive public sector infrastructure projects for which the
rate of return is guaranteed. In the social area, the appraisal process is
under way. In any event, potential investment resources for the next three
years are for the most part already committed in projects now in execution.
The policy of restoring the level of public expenditure must be
seen in conjunction with the macroeconomic need to reduce the overall
public sector deficit. The two are only compatible if structural reforms
are undertaken that enable additional savings to be generated.   In the
context of reforming the State, privatization is a means for incorporating
private savings in the financing of additions to public service
infrastructures.   Meanwhile,  external financing will enable the public
enterprises to concentrate their attention on major works in which, because
of their size, private investment playa a complementary role.
The Government is reconsidering the public investment program and
its financing in the light of these criteria, and the results will be
announced in the early months of 1987.   We also intend to review the
proposed 1988 and 1989 public investment programs. In this connection, we
are now preparing a multi-annual public investment and financing plan,
which we will present to the Bank.
The restoration of the investment climate is a key factor in the
transition of Argentina's economy to sustained medium-term growth.
For the private sector, the decision to invest appears to depend on a set
of factors that impact on the sector's expectations. From the Government's
standpoint, sound and stable policies are crucial for restoring the
confidence of economic agents.   Nevertheless, progress in this direction
cannot guarantee the disappearance of unfavorable expectations generated by
years  of  persistent  economic  stagnation.    This  situation  underlines
the importance of public investment and its role in launching the growth
process. Private and public investment should therefore be seen as having
complementary roles.
Technology  plays  a  significant  role  in  determining  the
orientation of the guidelines governing investment. In a changing world,
economies with aspirations toward growth cannot afford to fall behind in
the utilization of new sources of productivity represented by modern
agricultural and industrial technologies.  Prom this standpoint, the State



- 47 -                    Annex V
Page 6 of 9
must play a catalytic role in the selective promotion of areas of advanced
technology.   The aim will be to improve the overall productivity of the
economy while at the same time tapping the potential of Argentina's trained
human resources. This approach becomes all the more important if one opts
for  a  development  strategy  that  opens  the  economy  to  international
competition.   Competition today is based either an high technology or on
low wages. Argentina cannot compete in terms of low wages--partly because
this has not been its historical experience, and partly because to attempt
such a strategy would endanger the social cohesion which must underlie
the effort to secure growth.   If investment is to recover, however,  the
State must do more than provide impetus to productive accumulation in the
private sector; it must also define a growth strategy that guarantees
adequate  returns.    In  this  sense,  opening  up  the  economy  must  be
established as the cornerstone of growth. Provision must also be made for
the development of a market for long-term capital as a source of financing
for the private sector.
These principles are designed to bring about a substantial change
in the framework within which the private sector operates.  Privatization,
for which a draft law has already been prepared, the deregulation already
begun in the area of foreign trade, and the appeal, also in the process of
implementation, for domestic and foreign capital through financial sector
reform, are all policies introduced with the aim of stimulating private
investment.
The Government has designed a strategy to broaden and tighten the
links between Argentina and the world economy.  In recent years Argentina
experienced an attempt to open the economy in ways that took incentives
away from local production; the result was a crisis that seriously damaged
our productive apparatus.   The course now chosen, in the form of export
promotion, is not only designed to correct previous errors, but also
responds to the severity of the current external constraints.
Argentina's export effort must extend to both the agricultural
and  the industrial sectnrs.   The massive export subsidies provided by
developed countries represent a heavy burden for Argentina's economy in
terms of their impact on prices in the cereals and meat markets.  Despite
these obstacles, an increase in exports of agricultural goods is an
essential aspect of our long-term economic policy, and must be accompanied
by the profound transformation that will result from the opening of our
manufacturing production to the external market. Success in this area will
entail an improvement in Argentina's industrial competitiveness, which will
also affect goods produced for the domestic market. lt will also open up
the possibility of increasing imports that will enhance the productivity of
our  productive  apparatus  and  meet  its  growth-related  demands.    The
corollary to an appropriate strategy of opening up the economy must
therefore be an in-depth restructuring of argentina's entire production
machinery. A range of incentives of unprecedented scope has already been
introduced to this end. Among these are activities involving international
negotiations and cooperation and integration agreements such as those made
with Brazil, which entail an expansion in Argentina's trade.
A restructuring of the market for short- and long-term capital is
another priority component of our growth strategy.   The tightness of the
short-term capital market is making the fight against inflation more



- 48 -
Annex V
Page 7 of 9
difficult, since the problems of financing public sector imbalances
necessitate an exceptionally rigorous and socially contentious financial
austerity policy. The lack of a long-term capital market seriously hampers
investment opportunities for the private sector.   A key element in this
effort is the reform of the financial system, a task whien has already
begun and must continue.
While the reform of the financial system takes place, it must be
understood that determination to make structural changes and awareness of
the need for a more efficient economy will not suffice to bring about
sustained growth or to satisfy repressed demands unless resources are
available for accumulation.   Therefore  the present pattern of external
flows, which represents one of the major constraints on the economy, must
be reversed and replaced by a greater availability of domestic financing
and external investment while we simultaneously eliminate the causes of the
present critical situation.
Along with the June 1985 prices and wages freeze, the Government
implemented incomes policies that introduced a progressive flexibility into
the initial controls. At the present time, three categories of goods and
services can be distinguished, according to the price policies applied to
them, namely: a sector where maximum prices are adjusted every 45 days and
which includes the main staple family consumption items (except for greens,
fruit,  vegetables  and  meat):   these  prices  are  being  applied  in
supermarkets; a sector where prices are neither controlled nor scheduled,
covering personal services, fresh foodstuffs and farm products; and a
sector with scheduled monthly price increases, which includes industrial
prices  that are  traditionally determined  on the  basis  of  cost.   The
Secretariat of Internal Trade authorizes increases that exceed maximum or
scheduled prices in light of claims by firms on a case-by-case basis.  In
conjunction   with  monetary   policy,   this  mechanism   has   functioned
efficiently, and has reduced inflation since August 1986 without giving
rise to either supply problems or floods of claims.  In an economy where
indexation has been an established feature, administered prices have
facilitated flexible and orderly regulation and have not entailed
impositions by the authorities or losses in terms of artificial prices and
wages.   The Government's  view is that inflation will be progressively
reduced, insofar as a deliberate policy of ensuring an abundance of
foodstuffs will tend to push the price index downwards in the context of a
tight monetary  policy.    Basically, the  policy  of administered  prices
results from the need to provide reference prices in the absence of an
adequate degree of integraton to the world economy.   In an open economy
these reference prices are supplied through international trade.   Their
absence gives rise to wage and price agreements by firms seeking regional
advantages which contributes to the overall inflationary pressure.
Experience shows that the mere application of monetary controls does not
halt the process, but rather generates a recession and expectations that
the policy will not be continued.
The Government is aware of the relative inefficiency of the
system of administered prices and of the need to apply them with
flexibility. In practice, however, these prices can only be eliminated in
an open economy in which objective reference prices are providea from
abroad. Proposals for self-monitoring agreements by firms are currently at



49                       Annex V
Page 8 of 9
the initial discussion stage. These are global agreements and include the
ellination of quantitative restrictions on imports and the acceptance of
customs tariff levels similar to those currently existing, as a means of
automatic regulation.
F. Trade Policy Reforms
The Government's trade policy reform fall into four main
categories: (a) exchange rate policy; tb) export incentives; (c) trade
regime rationalization; and (d) administrative procedures.
In  connection  with   exchange   rate   policy,   the   crawling
peg arrangement for the Argentine Austral has already resulted in a real
depreciation. Furthemore, the Government depreciated the Austral by 7% at
the end of February and has committed itself to a further depreciation of
2Z per month during May and June. Following that, the Government intends to
review periodically the level of the real exchange rate, taking into
account, inter alia, the differential between international and domestic
inflation and export performance, to ensure its adequacy.
The reforms of export incentives cover several areas.   First,
the Government has introduced two duty-free temporary admission regimes,
eliminated export taxes on most manufacturing exports, introduced a
mechanism to reimburse indirect taxes on exports, and drastically
simplified procedures in both temporary admission regimes.   Second, both
temporary  admission  regimes  have  been  made  fully  and  adequately
operational. Based on performance, additional measures will be introduced
if needed to further simplify export pracedures. Third, the list of inputs
for exports that can be imported automatically under the standard Temporary
Admission Regime has been expanded substantially. Fourth, the specific
temporary program of direct stimulus to industrial export growth presently
in use will be replaced by a permanent system of refund of indirect taxes
to exporters.   However, existing agreements under this program will be
maintained in force until their final term of expiration. The Government
will also undertake a study on interest rates applicable to export credit
programs.   The Government  intends to address  this issue of additional
reforms through an Export Promotion Project for which it has requested Bank
support.
In  connection  with  trade  restrictions,  the  Government  is
taking action in several fields. First, most of the system of quantitative
restrictions will be eliminated over a three-year period.  At the end of
this period, tariff positions equivalent to about 80% the value of
industrial production are envisaged to be moved to the automatic list.
Simultaneously,   in   some   industrial   subsectors   where   industrial
restructuring  is  required,  i.e.  paper,  steel,  chemical  and  textile
products, it is the intention of the Government to undertake an industrial
restructuring program for which financing has been requested to the Bank.
Second, it is the Government's policy to replace QRs. with temporary
additional  tariff  procection.       Finally,  the  Government  would  also
undertake, under the PSMTAL, a study which would focus on introducing
competition in government procurement.
As regards administrative procedures, several actions have been
taken that should assist the export development effort.   First,  prior
presentation and documentation of DJNI import tariff requests has been



- 50 -
Annex V
Page 9 of 9
eliminated. Second, for those tariff positions that remain L, the prior
consultation list, a 5-day deadline has been established for consultations
with the producers' associations (and a maximum of 15 days for the whole
process of consultations with the associations and SICE).  New procedures
for the associations' participation have been developed; these reduce the
scope of the associations' involvement.  Tariff positions included in the
prior consultation list for which imports are authorized are being excluded
from the consultation process with the associations and moved to the
automatic  list.    Third,  the  one-stop  administrative  window  is being
extended to all 49 custom offices and the number of participating agencies
reduced  significantly.  The  Government  will  continuously  review  the
above-mentioned  actions  and  mechanisms  to  ensure  their  adequate  and
efficient operation.
The Government would undertake an Action Program for the second
phase of trade policy reform.  The Government intends to move the economy
towards international competitiveness and relative prices and rationalize
the tariff structure. It is the Government's intention to continue opening
up imports as export performance improves.  The elimination of QRs would
continue gradually, with most tariff positions moved out of QRs over a
three-year period, to achieve the Government's final objective in an
efficient,  transparent  and  continous  way.    The  Government  will  also
strengthen its export promotion objectives.   It plans to facilitate the
availability of export financing in the capital market.
The Government has put together an ambitious program of policy
reforms designed to have a lasting impact on the economic structure of
Argentina. The Government believes that this export-oriented development
strategy will yield positive results.
I should like to stress that while this statement has focused
on economic adjustment and trade policy, continued emphasis would be placed
on socioeconomic programs to sustain growth, employment generation and
poverty alleviation.  Development in these areas that is compatible with
the adjustment described in this letter resains our medium-term goal.
In view of the measures being taken, the Argentine Government
would appreciate your favorable consideration of its request for a Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Loan.  We look forward to a continuing
exchange of ideas with the Bank and to the opportunity to discuss from time
to time the progress made in implementing these reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Juan Vital Sourrouille
Minister of Economy



- 51 -
ANNEX VI
Table 1
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA - Economc Performance and Adjustment Prospects, 1987-89
1987    1988    1989
A. Potential Outcomes: Orders of Magnitude
Average Growth Rate (Z)
Real GDP                                             4.0     3.7      3.8
Exports of Goods                                    11.1     3.6      5.1
Agricultural Goods                                -4.4    13.4      9:.
Manufactured Goods of Agric. Origin                8.8    12.1    10.1
Manufactured Goods of Industrial Origin           38.1 /l  8.3      7.3
Exports of Non-factor Services                      12.3     3.6      4.8
Averaze Ratio
Current Account/GDP (Z)                             -3.0    -2.1    -1.8
Year-end Reserves (US$ million)                    4,760   4,760   4,960
Honths of Imports                                  4.6     4.4     4.3
Total Debt Service Ratio (Z)                        64.1    52.6    58.5
Debt to Exports Ratio                                5.2     4.9      4.6
B. Domestic Policy Outcomes: Orders of Magnitude
Domestic Policy Instruments
Real Exchange Rate (June 1985 - 100)                 100     100 /2  100 /2
Imports GNFS/GDP 13                                 10.2    10.3    10.6
/1  The 38.1% increase in manufactured exports is signifLcantly biased,
upwards by a 95.5% projected increase in petroleum exports.
/2  Maintain and review real exchange rate in light of export performance.
/3  At constant prices.



ANNMD VI
'Table  2
- 52 -                                               Page 2 of 4
ARSENHIA - Summary of Key Nacrohconohic Aggregates, 1975-1985
ipercentages)
1979     1979      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994  1995 est
GDP Growth Rate                      -3.4      6.7       0.7      -6.2      -5.2       3.3      2.5      -4.4
Debt/Export Ratio 11                  1.6      2.2       2.5       3.1       4.6       4.7      4.7       4.7
Interest/Export Ratio 12) 2/        15.2      16.5      20.2      33.3     51.7      57.0      55.2      50.1
Total Debt/GDP l:) 31                  20       35        43        56        70        70       69        75
Interest Payments/63P (Z) 41         2.6       2.6       3.5       6.0       7.9      8.4       L.I       7.9
Debt Service Ratio II) 51              59       33        43        63        B9       140        99       79
Tern of Trade                          78       93        94       107        92        Be       95        83
Import Growth Rate 6/               -4.9      45.4      45.4       0.4    -41.2      -2.4       2.4    -11.7
Export Grouth Rate hi                12.2        -3     -4.9       5.9      -2.4      11.5      0.2       5.9
Current Account Balance              1833     -537    -4767    -4714    -2357    -2461    -2391          -953
1)  Total debt including short-teru/exports goods and IFS; absolute ratio.
2/ Total interest payments to exports of goods and hFS.
31  Total debt including short-terem6DP.
41 Total interest paymerts/GD.P
5/ Total interest and amortization on NLT divided by exports of goods and non-factor services.
6I Real growth rates in 1970 prices.
April 6, IM



53 -                                                      ANN   VI
Table 3
Page 3 of 4
ARGENTIN& -PROJECTIONS OF KEY VARIABLES 1985-1995 BASE CASE SCENARIO J
(percentages and 19h3 U.S. Dollarsi
1985     2996      1997    1298       1999      1990     1991      1992     193       14        1995
6DP growth ratp                                    -4.4       5.5      4.0       3.7      3.9       3.9       3.9      3.7       3.7       3.7      3.7
61Wicapita                                         2077     2157      2209      2254     2302      2352     2403      2451      2502     2554      2607
6NP growth rate                                    -4.0      8.4       4.5       9.1      3.9       3.9       4.2      4.0       4.1       4.1      3.9
GiNP/capita                                        1903     2D3O      209      2139     2187      2735      2291     2346      2403     2461      2517
Consuaptioe/capita growth rate                     -6.4       7.3      0.6       1.3       1.2      1.3       1.5      1.2       1.3       1.2      1.3
Pricate Investeentdpub!ic investment I1             1.3       I.'      1.1       1.1       1.1      I.S       1.2       2.2      1.2       1.1      1.1
Public Investuent/5fP (l' 2/                        5.6      6.3       6.5       6.9      7.2       7.6       9.0      9.5       9.0      9.6      10.2
Private Investpent.-tG    lP2  2I Jl                7.2      b.5       7.0       7.6      B.2       9.9       9.3      9.9      10.t      11.0    1'.5
GrOss Domestic Savings/SP iit 4s                   19.7      15.5     1&.5      11.5      19.4     19.3      19.7     20.4      20.9     21.i      22.2
Exports Growth Pate 4!                              5.9      -9.4     12.3       3.L       4.8      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.b
Exports/SDP 1I) 41                                 15.9      13.6     14.7      14.7      14.9     14.8      14.9     14.9      14.8      14.7     14.7
Imports Growth Rate 41                            -ll.'     22.6       6.9       5.3      6.0       4.6      5.6       4.7       4.5      4.6       4.5
lmports/SIDP (ii 41                                 9.4      9.9      10.2      10.3     10.6      10.6      10.9     10.9      11.0     21.1      11.2
Exphrts of Goods & IIFS maii? "It                 10242     879?      9939    10926    12842    12616    13538    14530    15595    16741    17973
Imports of Goads & NFS trnllI2/                    5991     7025      7750      8372     9020      9577    !0505    11421    12399    13913    14574
Current Account Balance 2!                         -953    -2b45    -2217    -1752    -1625    -1a4b    -1235    -1543    -1391    -1231    -1241
Tota! debt outstanding & disbursed (sill! .!   48312    49082    51637    53199    54.774    5t390    58005    59499    60494    61317    62122
DebtiGD  !1') 2'                                   74.6      70.1     69.9      65.2     61.6      59.2      55.2     52.2      49.3     46.5      43.9
Interest Fayments/GDP Ii 2/                        7.9      6.1       5.a       5.2      5.1       5.0      4.6       4.2       3.9      3.S       3.3
Inerest Coverage Ratio 5!                          0.85     0.4!      u.53      0.t      L 0.62    0.62     0.*3      0.65      6.69     0.72      0.73
Debt Service/16NFS Ili h'                          ?9.5     75.9      64.1      52.a     5B.5      o2.3     62.9      60.5      59.1     55.4      54.3
Debt!eports of goods and nfs.                       4.7       5.6      5.2       4.9      4.t       4.5       4.3      4.1       3.9       3.7      3.5
11  Ministry of Economy defiritaons are used here.
2i At currint prices.
31 Includes chanqes in stocks.
41 At constan! prices.
5: Resource surplusiinterest payments.
6/ Excluding short term principal repayments.
t   For historical key econosic indicators see table B.
Notes:
Debt includes public and publicly guataRteed, IMF. private non-guranteed and short term debt.
Exports and imports include geods and non-factor ser-vces.
April 21, 1997



-54  -                                     LNllE    VI
Table r
Page 4 of 4
ARGENTINA - ACTUAL AND PRDJECTED EXTERNAL REREIREIENTS AND FIMNCING,
Imillims of US *)
Bauecase
Average                                                           Average
1981-84     1995     196       1987     199       1999     1990  1991-94
_--      __--------_--_--__--------___----_______--- ----____-----------               -  ---      -
Exports (6&NFS)                                    10151    10242      8797     939    10927    11842    12616    15101
Agricultural goods                                3693     3684      294      2776      3150     3457     3670      4321
Manufactured goods of agric. origen               2719     2492      2316     2518      2823     3125      3415     4076
Manufactured goods of industrial origen           174      2220      1767     2441      2a43     2937      29l5     3067
NFS                                               1975      1846     1810     2204      2311     2423      2540     3026
laports (GINFSI                                     9254     5991      7025     7750      9372     9020     9577    11940
ronsumer goods                                     495       210      278      300       31?      337       358      405
Intermediate goods                                3790     2554      3367     3520      3093     4200     4407      5553
Petroleum                                          65a       440      305      400       418      419       4!8      494
Capital goods                                      I044     alO       750     1030      1137     1344      1554     2148
NFS                                               27'7     2077      2325      2500     2607     2721      2940     3339
Resource Balance                                    1897      4351     1172     2189      2555     2822      3039     31i!
Net Factor Incme                                   -995    -5304    -4422    -4421    -4307    -4447    -1685    -4612
of which:  interest payments                     -4934    -5132    -4302    -4169       4230    -4550      4986    -4718
Net Private Transfers                                  7         0        5        5         0        0         0        0
CURRENT ACCOUNT                                    -2991     -953    -2645    -227    -1752    -1625    -1646    -1450
Amortizations (totall                              -4806    -4719    -2372    -2206    -1514    -2374    -2970    -41B9
Change in reserves l- increase)                      90?    -1871       822     -833         0     -200      -250     -150
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS                               b099      7543      4195     5266      3266     4199      4B66     5789
F'NANCINO (BROSS)                                   6799     7543      4195     5266      326a     4199     4966      5789
Direct Foreign Investment                            409      919       574      125       200      240       290      368
Medium and Long Ter. Loans                           53     9571      3134     4769      3066     3959     4596      5421
world Bank                                          q2       144      408      537       787      943       953      535
trade polic  loan                                  0        0         0      250      250         0        0         0
IDB                                                151      326       209       221     355       418      433       447
IMF                                                295     1007      542      1380      456       751      037       811
Bilateral                                         n.a.      510       294      479       385      46       500       500
Commerciai Banks                                  n.a.     6584      1681     2153      1093     1487      1863     3128
Short Term                                         -3034    -2443         0        0         0        0         0        0
Errors and Omissions                                -129      4%        487      372         0        0         0        0
Memorandum Items
Gross Central Bank Foreign Exchanqe Reserves        3510     4749      327      4160      4760     4960     5210      5735
Current Account Balance(SDP                         -4.b     -1.5      -3.8     -3.0      -2.1     -1.9      -1.?     -1.2
April 21, 1987



WDIAa  1aind Rates or Protection  7nqnj7 matriblitio  of twiff psdtIor  r
Vrmwm   Waribation of Tailft PFt1wtiu hwl cc Sam of Pnhdctiw, W15
ANIWDI MIWL MU3 W IW021Z'I                                           52SCB1W IWIOB 2                      2S2M;  t        
kUlItd3 weghted tv Impor  TsJT my                                  FYuqLtnn  Diatribitici la Cai  bl Fcw            D.triluti.m bwl o
Admiade  Imorts, mA Prctwtion, 195                                    All Tariff Positcom               All Taritr PadtL   e    on
vs*ta  IF                                                    wwrJCMnu
WctdSId  T-mq   Weijitwl Stidaf    Tariff  DM  YAW  MUM                Val YA2 CATWY P           CAWS 2   cm             CM         P   G       2 C
U! aW   kJ           A   PD d. Dh4atim  Pdile_ (U                    uW       (     SS (in  g P p   (P2) (2_fl) (2#2p)    3       P       142 .pL  (2L. ) (202p)
dde Eouii                31.8     3d         32e9        la.    13.7      11,491   3,6I.0        21.1   D2.       . 7  .02.2   11.6  3D.6   62.6   Din. n.a. na.   ILa.   n.   Sa.
Interiwlate Oak         S2        25.4       n.m.       Ws.      14.2      3,82    ,556.0        1.u    DA..    13.8 8.0 21.     7.5   15.5  70.7    n.&a.&. n.A.   L.    Ln.    3.
Ai4tJ Caoode             31.8     35-4       n ..       n.m.     13.0      4,910   1,571-0       L      tin.    1.5 17. 18.9   10.2   27.7   70.8    na1. LA. n.a.   na.   DA.   EA.
Ot>r Coof                37.9     27.4       C.S.       n.a.     13.4      2,165     3,.0       nUA    n.e.      9.7 41.0  0.7   21.8   62.8   77.5    %.e. S.A. a.a.   n     n      n.-.
vt&n4otr                 31.1      21.8      3.6        35-9    13.9    10,631   3,457.0         18.0   6,6      7.4 18.8 26.3   11.6   30.4   62.2    3.6 25.7 23.3   22a2   41.4   45.5
WSMD MUNCIWD fUjlg
s. tod, Iwvme ml6
SIotO                 "33.6     26.7      33.9       32.6    717          MDi    127.0        6.2    1,65S    0.6 55.4 56.0   21.1   76.6   22.9    4.2 50.6 54.8   8.8   794   16.4
2. Tat11s               4.0      43.4       45.8       44.0      4.7      1,100      63.0      18.9      t4    0.2 63.6 63.7   24.6   E.1    11.7   0.1 46.4 46.5   43.9   91.3    9.6
3 Vood                   44.3     45.5       34.9       44.9     7M          66       3.0        .8       I)    0.0 34.9 34.9   36.4   71.2   28.8    0.0 25.7 25.7   43.6   69.3   p7
4. PmprFrhnting          37.5     31.1       37.2       33. 1    12.8        am       15.0      21.9      323    0.021.421.4   27.4   49.8   51.2    0.0 23-3 23.3   39.1   62.4   37.6
5. ClhdIsl Produeb       24.3      2.2       Z7.3       3.9      13-9      3,646    ,418-0     12.0    1,60C   19.8 4.9 24.7    7.2   12.1    0       9.7  6.4 16.1    89   153   75.0
6. NbWtlctnerula    35.2          39.3      39.4       36.8    10.9         184      34.0      182       213    1.6 4.9 6.5   26.1   31.0   67.4    0.6 11.3 11.9   39.3  50.6   4.8
7.  ldo thitb            35.0      321       37-9       16.7      2.5        551     272.0       7.4      329    0.0 0.5 0-5    0-9    1.5   9B.6   0.0  05 0.5    0.3    0.8   99.2
S. tdalmq &t Other
Mateln Proiton        32.7      31.6       34.2      36.7    12.3       4,,7  1.C0           2B.9    1,41B     .8 19.5 21.3   10.3   29.8   61A    0.3  175 1.8   15.8   33.3   66.3
9. Othr tulhobl          31.9      27.6      35.6       35.7    12.7        426       60.0     23.3        19    0- 11.3 11.5   17A.   3.4   71.4    0.0  8.6 L6   33.2   41.8   5.2
JOt Yaw" M  rat be edmat Is tb vtinc.
jl  Tarlff poitica   tehories an defied a hlowa
P * Pn*hbited list betn  of heath  d publi afely netrleot .
2P - Item ftm ctqpry 2 wit 0 import valus.
2 - Prior mdaton list.
3 - Au sUo list.
krcea Santait of 1zt.wtr adl  mn , Istial CaX Addatrtim, aM sk Staff eatiaten.
hbhary n., 1957
N|  |



(RAs  kuls Katie of PrtbUctm, 7ftqvo  lEatbitIou of Tariff %eituons, ar
huousa hmtlbjtion of Triff Netno. DOW ca Sh.u of Yrc&afu  Jn thn M  r4aal       ng Sectr. 195
All:U KFIL  - A    HurrM                                                SfIl " RMiTW  LI                           m 
Uoaglbtd, wdgbteti Isprt, Tqprwy                                   Fnqtmx  Distrbiztm bAd   a            Feue   Marbutad a
Afmilnla L +r, ai Ptica, 1                                             AU Tariff PNetiM                  All Tariff Psit   -E    an
W)                          Srh of Fne      a L)
---AVE8   A3e71DP
ViSitS   Tonmry  VesahB   tandard   Triff  DIP=I VAv IELT                        cYArC             CAm       2    cT        CM=  P        UATM    2   CAr
Uwmititad klein   A~a   kSi   Dwdirktm  Pcaltio,u(1 Cia    ) '4L27a(UN su1) _L   2           frf QP-2   L           3&                     2-)  Csa)
L'Wmtd ty aorbe 6mdxtls A&dmLc  tAxs (rt)                                                                               P SIIl3      P  2P (F+)3P a -20  (2-2P) (2-2P)    3
IDME DIGIT  AXIOW  03 IWIWFURDI  UR
311 lbo                 53.1      27.1       za.e.      32.4      7.6       316    119.0          6.2     1.235    0.6 95.1 55.7   19.6    74.7  24.7    4.4 53.9 9.3   25.4    79.3  16.3
312 Fa  KlM              n.a.      n.a. Me.              26.3     n.a.       n.M.     n.e.        n.B.       114   n.s. n.a. n.a.   n.m.    n.a.  n.a.    14.6 2032 34.8    9.4    29.6  55.7
313 hvrpeg               39.9      21.1       n..        37.9      5.9        Ss      Lo          6.1       205    o.n 67.9 67.9   23.6    96.4   3.6     0.0 71.o 71.8   24.3    96.1   3.9
314 Toacoo               32.2      3D.1       n.a.       31.0      6.1         6      0.1        16.0       1o0    0.0 16.7 16.7   66.7    83.3  16.7    0.0 2.0 2.0   96.1    95.1   2.0
321 Turtlles             d7.0      43.1       n.e.       45.3      4.6      935      56.0         20.2      518    0.2 6.-5 66.7   19.2    85.8  14.0     0.2 52.3 52.5   31.8   84.1  15.8
322 Aarl                 40        48.0       n.a.       47.4        0       153      E.0         7.1       183    0.0 49.0 49.0   51.0   1WD0   0.0      0.0 19.5 19.5    3.5   1W.0   0.0
323 Lniter               34.5      41.2       n.a.       26.6     12.2        16      0.5         10.4       e6    0.0 31.3 31.3   62.5    95A    6.3     O. 95.095,0   44.3    53-3   0-7
324 Fooar                46.8      3S.1       n.a.       46.3      3.6       26       0.9         25.3       69    0.0 65.4 65.'   3D.8    96.2   3.9     0.0 62.4 62.4   37.6   10.0   0.0
331 Woo Prtduta          44.3      45.5       n.a.       45.6      7.8        66      2.9         8.8        78    0.0 34.9 34.9   36.4    71.2  28.8     0.0 22.0 22.r   33.3    61.3  30.7
332   rdtu. n.a.                   n.o.       n.a.       43.5     n.c.       n.a.     n.e.        n.m.       43   n.m. n.a. n.a.   n.a.   n.-.   n.a.     0.0 32.4 32.4   51.3    a3.7  16.2
341 hser Pruucet         33.8      33.1       ns.        41.2     11.7       170     66.2         22.4      178    0.02.922.9   218    51.8  48.2         0.0 21.1 21.1   3.1    57.2  42.7
342 Pr.lzt               30.8      16.4       n.e.       27.5     15.5        33      8.5         10.3      145    0.0 13.3 13.3   2D.0    33.3  66.7     0.0 20.0 2D.0   238    40.8  59.1
351  tbmli Choaal    23.5          21.6       n.e.       30.7    13.5      2,648    656.3         11.5      239   16.2 5.9 221    5.3    11.1  72.7       6.5 2.2 8.7    2.9       5.1  aL3
352 Otrw Owcels          24.1      23.5       n.e.       2S.1     14.3       3D     261.2        20.5       3g3   356 .10.0 45.6    3.5    13.5  50.9    29.9 5.3 35.2   23.4   26.7  41.4
353 Petrla  Rofinery     36.4      31.8       n.e.       35.7      6.8        25     16.4         26.9      717    0.0 4.0 4.0    0.0       4.0  96.0     0.0 3.0 3.0    0.0       3.,  97.0   1
354 Petrola & cal. Prd. 36.5       20.7       n.e.        9.2     10.4        47    443-9         4.5        29    0.0 4.3 4.3    0.0       4.3  95.7     0.0 2.9 2.9    2.9       5h   94. 3
355 lubber Produte       3.7       34.6       ne.        39.7     12.5       91      32.2         34.6      9g    0.0 4.4 4.4   23.3    29.7  70.3        0.0 6.9 6.9   33d    37.1  62.9   >
356 Plato4 Pcdutb        33.8      42.5       n.a.       36.5     13.4        26      7.8         69.2      133   19.2 26.9 46.2    7.7    34.6  46.2   15.6 34.4 53.0   12.5    46.9  37.5
361 Conic Products       45.1      47.0       ne .       32.5      5.0         8      1.9         2D.1       31    0.0 0.0 0.0   50.0    50.0  50J.    0.0 O., 0.0   27.3    27.3  72.7
362 Glam Ptdits          56.2      35.4       n.m.       37.0     11.5       112      9-5         31.6       44    2.. 5.4 6.0   24.1    29.5  67.9       2.6 5.2 743   25B    31.0  E6.3
3E9 Other lInmtallio
Prnoiib              40.0      40.3       n.a.       37.8     12.1       E6? 7   48.3          12.4    13?    u.4 3.2 3.6    a.2    11.4  6.2         0.0 16.0 16.0   46.7    62.7  37.2
31 1 ra A Oteol IM.raty  37.4     35.5       n.a.       37.3     10.7       551    272.u          8.5      32    0.0 0.5 0.5    0.9       1.5  9.6      0.0 0.3 0.3    0.3       Ub  99.4
372 NeTrmwa IrAxBtiy   33.5        20.1       n.a.       32.7     13.2       223     69.0         33.6      57    0.0  1.4 1.4    0.5      1.8  9g.2     0.0  1.4 1.4    0.5      1.9  9.1
351  ebrloltedlt A  Prd. 41.4      44.4       A.m.       46.5     11.5       266     54.8          6.8      419    0.0 7.9 7.9   10.2    180    2.0      0.0 15.3 15.3   11.0    26.3  73.7
3Q Noo2chtrit  hcL    35.2         29.2       n.e.       36.4     12.0    2,15f   665.8            2.6    z51    0.0 33.8 M.8   13.2    47.0  53.0        0.0 34.7 34.7   17.5    52.2  47.8
3 Emctrical oeehine      26.2      25.5       n..        27.9      9.0       gl7   fl.8            19.7    221    0.0 3-4 3.4    6.9    10.3  69.7       0.5 8.3 8.8   12.6    20.9  ZS
374 T-Fjrt W$ot    36.4            43.3       n.s.       37.9     1443       363    291.8         37.7    556    0.0 8.3 8.3    9.1    174  82.6         0.0 15.7 15.7   2D.6    36.3  63.7
355 Sdtes fluiprnt       27.8      24.5       V6e.      232       10.5         5    t10.7          27.8     30   13.3 4.8 18.      6.3    11.1  75.6    12.8 5.7 18.5    7.2    12.9  74.3
39 Othr lbmdctrfrg       31.9      26.6       n.e.       38.7     10.9       426     60.0          26.3     19    0.2 11.3 11.5   17.1    28.4  71.4     0.0 8.6 O6   33.2    41.8   5.Z
IV     Mm VaoL     mt to Lqdwlait do to rouding.
14M8  1bt emni5r upxdfid.
I/  hrift p3jltlu'atepflhl an derimd as follmi
P -  dMtbl  list buas cf hdth ad piblic mff rmtrloftcm.
a1  I t     m ( ontcy 2 with 0 lWort values.
2 - Prior mtetuaton list.
3 * A ftcmtl lint-.
P742(2-2P)43 - IOD percet
nonoe:  Secretariat of IMrt'y ad Ccawrxe ltiml Cuwtom MdrStraticn, ml arAk Staff ettist                                                                                                 O     '-e
Februry 27, 1907                                                                                                                                                                       N



- 57 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
Fund Position as of Xarch 31l 1986
I.     Membership Status
(a)    Date of Membership:  September 1956
(b)    Status - Article VIII
A. Financial Relations
II.   CGeneral Department (General Resources Account)
(a)    Quota:  SDR 1,113.0 million
Millions  Percent
of SDRs of Quota
(b)    Total Fund holdings of australes            3,353.9      301.3
(c)    Fund credit                                 2,240.9      201.3
Of which:  credit tranches (ordinary
resources)                   818.8       73.6
enlarged access resources    822.0         73.9
compensatory fiaancing
facility                     600.1       53.9
(d)    Reserve tranche position                        -          --
(e)    Current Operational Budget:  Not applicable
(E)    Lending to the Fund:  Not applicable
III.   Stand-By or Extended Arrangements and Special Facilities
(a)    Stand-by arrangements
Type of       Amount                         Amount Drawn
Arrangement (SDR million)       Duration      (SDR million)    Status
SBA           1,419.0      Dec. 28, 1984-       1,182.5      Expired
June 30, 198.6
SBA           1,500.0      Jan. 24, 1983-         600.5      Canceled,
April 24, 1984                   Jan. 23,
1984
SBA             159.5      Sept. 16, 1977-          -        Expired
Sept. 15, 1978
SBA             260.0      August 6, 1976-        159.5      Expired
August 5, 1977



- 58..-
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
(b)    Special Facilities:  CFF
Year           Amount
Approved     (SDR iillion)
1984           275.0
1983           520.1
1975           220.0
IV.    SDR Department
(a)    Net cumulative allocation:  SDR 318.37 million
(b)    Holdings:  SDR 1,294, or the equivalent of 0.0 percent of
net cumulative allocation
(c)    Current Designation Plan:  not applicable
B. Nonfinancial Relations
V.     Exchange Rate
On June 14, 1985, the austral (symbol: A) replaced the peso
argentino at a rate of one austral per 1,000 pesos argentinos.
From June 14, 1985 :o April 8, 1986, the rate of exchange of the
new currency was ktept at a fixed rate of A 0.800 per U.S. dollar
(buying) and A 0.801 per U.S. dollar (selling). Since that time,
the exchange rate has been subject to frequent, small
adjustments. The exchange rate for the austral on December 31,
1986 was A 1.255 per U.S. dollar (buying) and A 1.255 per U.S.
dollar (selling).
VI.    Last Article IV Consultation
The 1985 Article IV consultation was concluded on March 10, 1986
(EBM/86/42).
VII.   Technical Assistance
A mission from the Fiscal Affairs Department visited Argentina in
September 1985 and prepared a repiort on ways of improving report-
ing of data in the Treasury and other parts of the public sector;
a Fund panel expert has been assigned to Argentina since June
1986, initially for a period of one year, to implement the
recommendationi of the report. Three Fiscal Affairs Department
missions visited Argentina in 1986. One mission reviewed the
costs and effectiveness of the system of tax incentives; the
second mission examined the tax system in the llght of a tax
reform that is underway at present; the third mission studied the
organizational structure of tax administration with a view to
providing advice on a possible reorganization of the tax office.



NAP SECTION



IBRD 12432R2
B O    I V I A                                                             OCTOBER 1984
SOUTH~~~~~-
AMERICA                                 H                                PARAGUAY
,. to                        k                                        P    RAL1UA7  
JArgenmina                  /s,                          A t rATAA  tLIsj
/    -~~~~  -               'K  ~~~~ci.,  )ASOwOn
1 .  \                 I        C v Q   _  L   1  t  <HAC  -
CATA?\R(A !        tUlMAN    \        -  }         zBeinardode lesoc
ib*                    S~~~~ANTIAISQ     1'
0  ~ ~ ~         ORRIENTES
r   -        HtLrEEL  EE$O    1'              J    ORRIENTES 
-30- ~~~~~~~~ | @ ~~~~~8 R A Z>  Itb L
)md. los uk'.
f    ,+N   b X     $     A~~~            ~    ~~~ * Cooo- oidi c ,
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SANIFIAG0O       mooRUGo'oUAY o.
/   RJa thSAN RAFA4LUIS k                        7 7.     BUENOS AIRES
N    G,l A61.,                         j-.F1male    *0PAr  MONTEVICEO
;             ~       ~~~~~~~ -  v.r.O i5 ,              PLATAI
aS | P~~~AM            0    P R FSJ    B  UENO       I,RES 
i ~    ~~      ~~~                       Tsooo .                CapeS.o )    'i'-
SAntA *EUMUENti  __   < AAAR BEL PLAIA
t       =                     VIE0~~~~~~~MA                                                        ,
t + R     S      O       N                                  4}~~~~AWOI
1  CH U B        ,51 I
ARGENTINA
-s J v_ ? xt IVADWIA
4 \ e \ Primory roads
t   {  )   F.,P RoFN                    _ .    Paved or gravel roads
Earth roads
5 A N T A                                  Principal airports
/463b   C R U Z  l                                     ProvIrKcial boundaries
International boundaries
35D.
-       (       .. -.
-    *RIO GALLE';0
nfrmw ensems oSrmw*
*0-  of *r     n mows-                    TIERRA DEL
cbmtum lbaf.                                 FUEGO                 D        200         4?        600 o cO
asd  a. Aft . ftvmp   do ftac
E. i     _o. MbMfl.tr .                 i' g                                         KtLOMEIERS
tSrCuI CF        . Wa ce.a                 P^
Ns-e -mrn ,                   -                                            100     200      300      400    JD
de1w b Irn -e.v
*fl  rIwb   or                                                                         MIL ES
at-                                ,



