Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12747
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION
LOAN AND SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOANS 2815-AR AND 2996-AR)
FEBRUARY 9, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASL         -     Agricultural Sector Loan
BANADE    -       Industrial Development Bank
BHN         -     National Housing Bank
BSL         -     Banking Sector Loan
CET         -     Common External Tariff
CPS         -     Combined Public Sector
IFI         -     International Financial Institutions
ISI         -     Import Substitution Industrialization
LAIA        -     Latin American Integration Association
LDP         -     Letter of Development Policy
OED         -     Operations Evaluation Department
PCR         -     Program Completion Report
QR          -     Quantitative Import Restriction
SICE        -     Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade
TA          -     Technical Assistance
TAR         -     Temporary Admission Regime
TFP         -     Total Factor Productivity
TPL 1       -     Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan
TPL 2       -     Second Trade Policy Loan
FSCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dir.otor-CGnerai
Operation. Evaluation                                                 February 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Conpletion Report on Argentina - 7rade Policy and
Export Diversification Loan and Second Trade Policy Loan
aLoans 2815-AR and 2996-AR)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Argentina - Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan and Second Trade Policy Loan (Loans 2815-AR and 2996-AR) prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. The Government did not comment on Parts I and m of the PCR and did not
prepare Part II.
The PCR provides a good and informative account of the role of these two loans in recent
developments in Argentina. The loans, approved in 1987 and 1988 respectively, were the cornerstone of the
Bank's assistance strategy at that time in support of a gradual opening of Argentina's trade account. However,
until the inauguration of a new Government in July 1989, borrower ownership of more comprehensive
structural change waxed and waned. Thus, the absence of serious fiscal reforms during 1987 caused the
Government's program to collapse and hence the first loan must be rated as unsatisfactory.
The second loan may be seen differently. Shortly after first tranche release in November 1988 the
absence of genuine domestic support for fiscal reform resurfaced and the macroeconomy deteriorated into
hyperinflation: the Bank suspended disbursements. The severity of the ensuing crisis was such, however, that
old interest groups lost all credibility. By mid-1990 significant reforms had been enacted by the new
Government, including fiscal reform and renewed trade liberalization, and the Bank released the second tranche
of the second loan. Throughout the crisis, the Bank maintained its policy dialogue and was then ready with
follow-up adjustment operations. On this basis, the achievements of the second loan must be seen as
satisfactory. Subsequent reforms and economic growth have been impressive, and the overall program can now
be judged sustainable. Because the two loans helped lay the seeds for Argentina's reform program, they made
a modest contribution to the institutional development impact of the Bank's assistance.
The key elements of Argentina's current economic program are currency convertibility and
improvement in the fiscal fundamentals. Inflation has been drastically reduced, and capital inflows have fueled
a strong recovery. Real exchange rate appreciation, however, has motivated the Government to increase import
protection for selected products. The ultimate benefits of the program will depend on the Government's ability
to maintain macroeconomic stability and achieve sustained growth.
The two operations will be audited by OED as a cluster audit of Bank adjustment lending to Argentina
at that time, including an aborted Banking Sector Loan. The focus is expected to be on longer-term issues,
especially the sustainability of the capital flows, competitiveness and related policies to promote investment and
exports, and on the social impact of the adjustment process.
Attachment                                            (
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION
LOAN AND SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOANS 2815-AR and 2996-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................ i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ..........................................    iii
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                ..........  1
I.  PROGRAM IDENTITY .........                                ...............................   1
II.    OVERVEW    ..............................................                                                 1
A.  Background  ............................................                                              1
B.  Trade Reform  1986-92  .....................................    4
C.  Bank Assistance  .........................................                                            6
Im. TPL I.............................                                                                           7
A.  Strategy   ..............................................                                             7
B.  Loan Design   . ..........................................                                            8
C.  Implementation ..........................................    8
IV.   TPL 2          ........................                     ..........................   10
A.  Plan Primavera ..........................................   10
B.  Trade Strategy and Loan Design  ...............................   11
C.  Implementation by Alfonsin Administration   ........................   12
D.  Implementation by Menem  Administration  .........................   13
V.    IMPACT OF TRADE REFORM  ..................................   15
VI. LESSONS FROM THE ARGENTINE TRADE REFORM EXPERIENCE ... ..... 17
VII.  THE WORLD  BANK'S PERFORMANCE   ...........................   19
VII.  OPERAfONAL ISSUES  ......................................   20
A.  Program  Relations with Government .............................   20
B.  World Bank-IMP Relations  ..................................   21
C.  Loan Disbursement Performance  ...............................   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
ANNEXES:
I: Compliance with Loan Conditions: Ln. 2815-AR  .........................  23
II: Compliance with Loan Conditions: Ln. 2996-AR  .........................  25
III: Policy Statement of Economic Adjustment: Ln. 2815-AR   ....................  27
IV: Policy Matrix: Ln. 2815-AR  ......................................   36
V: Letter of Development Policy: Ln. 2996-AR  ............................  41
VI: Letter of Sector Policy: Ln. 2996-AR   ................................  49
VII: Policy Matrix: Ln. 2996-AR  ......................................  54
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... ..... 56
PART IIJ: BASIC DATA  ............................................   57
A. TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
LOAN 2815-AR  ............................................   57
B. SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
LOAN 2996-AR ............................................  58



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION
LOAN AND SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOANS 2815-AR and 2996-AR)
PREFACE
This is the joint Program Completion Report (PCR) for the two trade policy loans to Argentina,
respectively, the Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan (TPL 1) in the amount of US$500.0
million equivalent and the Second Trade Policy Loan (TPL 2) in the amount of US$300.0 million
equivalent. The TPL 1 (Loan 2815-AR) was approved on May 19, 1987; all but US$4.03 million was
disbursed and the last disbursement made in December 1987. The TPL 2 (Loan 2996-AR) was approved
on October 27, 1988; it was fully disbursed and the last disbursement made in September 1990. Both
loans closed on December 31, 1990 - respectively 30 months and 13 months behind schedule.
The two loans supported the gradual opening of Argentina's trade account between 1986 and 1990.
The loans were also the centerpieces of Bank assistance for the reactivation program of 1986/87 and the
stabilization program of 1988 which preceded the 1989-90 hyperinflation and recession. This PCR
therefore evaluates the Bank's involvement in both the trade and the macroeconomic policies of 1986-90.
Due to the unusual scope, Part I exceeds space limitations.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of Country Department IV of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and  o). On
April 29, 1993, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and Im with the request to prepare Part n1 by June 11,
1993, but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the final supervision mission for TPL 2 in July 1990,
but was repeatedly interrupted by urgent other assignments of the task manager. The PCR is based on
loan-related documents - the two Reports of the President; Loan Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda - and on economic
reports and internal memoranda relating to the economic programs between 1986 and 1992.






i-I-
PROGRAM COMEPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSEFICATION
LOAN AND SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOANS 2815-AR and 2996-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
I1.   'Me purpose of the two loans was to help the Government open the economy to trade. The loans
were also central to the Banlc's aim of helping the Government design and implement a credible economic
strategy.
2.    The trade reform objectves were: (i) support for stabilization policies through price and wage
discipline in an enlarged tradables sector; (ii) a more efficient trade balance adjustment to shifts in the
external position; (iii) an upward sbift in total factor productivity (TFP) due to increased allocative
efficiency, reduced rent-seekzing, lower managerial inefficiency, and realization of scale economies; (iv)
hligher TFP growth connected with export expansion, wider input availability, and competitive pressure;
and (v) increased investment as firms seek to improve productivity, pursue export opportunities, and
,respond to reduced uncertainty about policies.
3.    The objectives of supporting economic strategy underwent changes in the period covered by the
two loans. In 1986/87, the Banlc participated in a concerted effort of the international financial
institutions (lFIs) and bilateral donors to provide fiscal and balance of payments support for a reform-
based economic reactivation. With insufficient fiscal adjustment, the reactivation strategy proved
unsustainable. In the second semester of 1988, the Banlc supported a heterodox stabilization program,
te so-called Plan Primavera. The Bank: considered this program as the Government's last chance to avert
the economic and social costs of hyperinflation, including a possible military coup; the Bank: was also
concerned about pressures to default on preferred debt. The objective of preventing hyperinflation was
not attained. However, Bank support achieved the other objectives: helping Argentin master the crisis
with its democratic institutions strengthened, launching a comprehensive program of structural reforms,
and avoiding default on preferred debt. At the time of the second tranche release of the TPL 2 in August
1990, the objective of Banlc assistance was to help the authorities irnplement the economic program which
the Banlc had helped to design.
Loan Design and Impleinentation
4.    TPL 1. In 1986/87, the Goverrnment relied on heterodox policies to hold monthly inflation below
5 percent. De-emphasizing the need for up-front fiscal reform, the Government pursued a reactivation
strategy based on public investmnent, financial deregulation to improve private investment financing, and
export expansion; economic growth was expected to restore public finances over the medium-term. 'Me
strategy received support through a Standby Agreement with the IMF.
5.    Policies toward export expansion included: subsidization of non-traditional exports; removal of
commodity export taxes; and introduction of "free trade status" for industrial exporters. The latter
included the elimination of license requirements and taxes on industrial exports, improved reimbursement
of indirect domestic taxes, expansion and automatization of the Temporary Admission Regime (TAR),
and removal of quantitative import restrictions (QRs) primarily on inputs used in export production. A



- iv -
gradual import liberalization would begin once reactivation had restored full employment. The TPL I
was designed to support the introduction of free trade status for industrial exporters through a quick-
disbursing component (US$496 million equivalent) conditioned on the above measures. A TA component
(USS4 million equivalent) would finance studies underpinning the import liberalization phase, consultant
services to improve economic reform management, and equipment purchases for the Customs
Administration. Macroeconomic conditionality for the TPL 1 included satisfactory 1987 performance and
1988 plans with respect to fiscal, public investment, real exchange rate, and external financing objectives.
6.    The Government implemented most export liberalization measures ahead of Board approval in May
1987; and readily met the other sector policy conditions as scheduled. The macroeconomic program,
however, faltered as the Government engaged in unprecedented spending increases ahead of the
September 1987 Congressional elections, which brought the country to the brink of hyperinflation. A
new heterodox stabilization program was launched in October; it included tax reforms subject to
Congressional approval. In this context, the Government also revised its trade reform strategy:
terminating export subsidy programs and adopting a program for the elimination of all QRs until year's
end, beginning with QRs having a production coverage of 10 percent. The Bank released the second
tranche of the TPL 1 in December 1987, after the IMF had extended support by declaring Argentina
eligible for drawing from the Standby agreement.
7.    TPL 2. In the first semester of 1988, the Bank and the Government engaged in an intensive
dialogue on the design of a program for comprehensive public sector reforms aimed at restoring the fiscal
fundamentals. The economic situation, however, deteriorated rapidly after Congress had refused to
approve the fiscal measures announced in October. The IMF declined consideration of another waiver,
and relations with the Government subsequently broke down. Argentina stopped interest payments to
commercial banks and the Government came under political pressure to default on preferred debt.
Austerity measures provoked a string of general strikes and - in April - a coup attempt. By July, a
complete loss of economic control was imminent. The President appealed to domestic interest groups
to support a new stabilization program - the Plan Primavera; and requested multilateral and bilateral
support for the external financing on which the Plan depended.
8.    The Bank decided to provide support without being joined by the Fund. Bank staff helped the
authorities give greater coherence to the Plan Primavera, and secured agreement on monitorable
macroeconomic targets. A key element of the Plan was a dual exchange rate system - to be phased out
after April 1989 - which was equivalent to an export tax collected through the Central Bank. While the
Plan Primavera thus implied a temporary reversal of reform on the export side, it also was accompanied
by significant import liberalization; inter alia: a major tariff reform; further reductions in the production
coverage of QRs; and achievement of full automaticity of import financing in two steps. The Government
also suspended the national industrial promotion regime, and took first measures toward assuming
administrative control of the tax exemptions granted under various provincial industrial promotion
regimes.
9.    The TPL 2 was designed to support the import liberalization and the attainment of macroeconomic
objectives. The Government met all effectiveness conditions allowing for disbursement of the first
tranche in November 1988. The macroeconomic program, however, unravelled in early 1989 and the
Bank suspended further disbursement in March. A complete loss of confidence rendered the authorities
unable to prevent the economy from sliding into hyperinflation; monthly inflation peaked at 203 percent
in July 1989. Trade reform was partially reversed in this period, including introduction of an explicit
export tax covering 100 percent of all exports and prior approval of advance import declarations as a
condition for import financing.
10.   President Menem assumed office in the midst of hyperinflation in July 1989. The new authorities
recognized the priority for sustainable fiscal adjustment, which could only be brought about by divesting



- v -
the state from all non-core functions, eliminating subsidies, restoring the tax base, and rebuilding the tax
administration. Progress in these reforms has since produced a gradual but steady improvement in the
fiscal fundamentals. The new Government quickly reinstated full automaticity of import financing. It
also began a gradual process of removing the remaining QRs and reducing import tariffs which by July
1990 exceeded TPL 2 second tranche release conditionality. The authorities also took measures to curb
provincial industrial promotion that went beyond TPL 2 conditionality. For fiscal reasons, however, the
Government phased out export taxes only according to an extended schedule. The Bank released the
second tranche - granting a waiver of the export tax condition - in August 1990, after analysis of the
effect of all trade reform measures on the anti-export bias of the trade regime had shown that import
liberalization measures more than compensated for the export tax. The IMF had signified its endorsement
of the macroeconomic program by reactivating its Standby Agreement.
Results
11.   The gradual trade liberalization of 1986-90 was followed by more drastic liberalization measures
in 1991; this included the almost complete elimination of export taxes and QRs, and the removal of
pernicious administrative barriers which had previously not been attempted. As a result, Argentina has
since 1986 moved from one of the most closed and intransparent trade regimes to one of the more open
and transparent. One indicator is the reduction of the anti-export bias from about 65 percent in 1986 to
about 15 percent in 1992. Equally important, this was achieved by a liberalization of both exports and
imports, not by offsetting import protection with industrial export promotion.
12.   Trade liberalization shares objectives with other reform policies aimed at adjustment and market-
based development including reforms of the tax structure, removal of subsidies, privatization, and
deregulation. Since all of these have been implemented in Argentina in the last 2-3 years, it would not
be possible to quantify the contribution of trade liberalization. However, the impact of the reform is
visible in the expansion and increased diversification of trade, which is instrumental for the attainment
of the wider objectives described above. Between 1986 and 1992 the volume of merchandise trade
increased 126 percent compared to a 12 percent increase in real output; over the last two years, the share
of consumer goods in total merchandise import rose from only 6 percent to 26 percent.
Findings
13.   Lessons. The Argentine experience suggests the following lessons:
* the success of stabilization efforts depends on fiscal reforms being initiated at the beginning of
a program; while heterodox policies can help bringing stabilization effects forward, they will
be short-lived without progress in fiscal reforms;
* provided a credible stabilization program is in place, trade reform need not wait for its
completion; instead, trade liberalization should be part of the program from the beginning, both
to increase price and wage discipline and to generate a more efficient framework for restoring
a viable external position;
* a trade reform stands little chance of being sustained if other state-led development policies
remain in place;
* quantitative restrictions on both exports and imports should be rapidly dismantled at the start
of the reform; reforms of the tax structure and tax administration may be required before export
taxes and import tariffs can be eliminated or brought down to a sustainable level; and



- vi -
* a de facto, if not legally open capital account leaves the authorities without room for
accommodating a trade reform with an up-front nominal devaluation; since the equilibrium real
exchange rate can change for reasons unrelated to trade reform, it may be better to focus on
deregulation to increase the flexibility of domestic prices and wages.
14.   Sustainability. Argentina's gradual trade reform suffered a temporary reversal in 1989, but was
resumed later in that year. It appears doubtful that a more aggressive liberalization in 1986/87 would
have prevented the reversal. Instead, the necessary political support for a complete opening developed
only after the 1989 collapse had made it plain that the country had no alternative. The change in public
perception and the inclusion of trade reform in a comprehensive program of public sector reforms after
1989 are the main factors that have made the opening sustainable.
15.   Bank Performance. The weak points in the Bank's performance concern the assistance for a
flawed economic program and trade reform strategy in 1986/87. These reflect reliance on the Fund's
assessment and insufficient prior economic and sector work. The Bank's support for the Plan Primavera
created controversy, but needs to be evaluated in light of the Bank's wider objectives at the time. After
a flawed start, the Bank's performance in assisting the authorities in the design and implementation of
a comprehensive reform program including trade liberalization has been outstanding.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION
LOAN AND SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOANS 2815-AR and 2996-AR)
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROGRAM IDENTITY
1.   Program Names:                 Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan (TPL 1)
Second Trade Policy Loan (TPL 2)
Loan Numbers and Amounts:     Loan 2815-AR (US$500 million)
Loan 2996-AR (US$300 million)
RVP Unit:                     Latin America and Caribbean
Country:                      Argentina
Sector:                       Trade
HI. OVERVIEW
2.    Argentina went through a period of turmoil in 1988-90 - marked by hyperinflation, recession,
and repeated coup attempts. The country mastered the crisis with its democratic institutions strengthened;
and in the past two years long-term trends of economic decline and high inflation have been reversed.
Bank assistance played an important role in helping the Government design and implement structural
reforms which turned the inward-oriented and state-led Argentine economy into a more open, market-
based system. The two trade loans which are the subject of this PCR supported policy reforms, both in
the run-up and during the crisis.
A. Background
3.   In the 1930s Argentina used import substitution industrialization (ISI) policies - subsidies and
import restrictions - to cope with the loss of agricultural export markets resulting from the protectionist
response of industrial countries to the Great Depression. At the end of the Second World War, ISI
policies were intensified (i.a., through export restrictions) and complemented with state-led development
policies including establishment of a large public enterprise sector and regulation of virtually all markets.
While creating a large and diversified industrial sector, the policies depressed productivity growth causing
Argentina to fall behind countries with a similar initial level of development and resource endowment,
such as Canada and Australia.
4.    Tax exemptions, public enterprise losses and use of the public administration as employer of last
resort began to seriously erode public finances in the early 1970s, pushing annual inflation into the triple-
digits. Civil unrest and accelerating inflation prepared the ground for a military take-over in April 1976.
The new authorities implemented a trade reform, but engaged in an internally inconsistent experiment
combining exchange rate-based disinflation with massive, mostly externally financed public spending.
The disinflation program was abandoned in early 1980 and the trade reform reversed; but public spending
continued to expand without commensurate revenue increases in the run-up to the 1982 war in the South



-2 -
Atlantic. To avoid an industrial and financial crisis, the authorities also assumed most of the external
debt the private sector had contracted. When external funding was cut off, the authorities relied on
Central Bank financing of a deficit which was greatly enlarged by external interest obligations. The
private sector, in an effort to escape the inflation tax, gradually withdrew from the financial system and
reduced its real holdings of currency. Demonetization and a de facto very open capital account rendered
the macroeconomy increasingly vulnerable to domestic and external shocks. Savings and investment rates
fell as Argentines increasingly saved and invested abroad.
5.    In December 1983, the democratically elected President Alfonsin took office from a military
government discredited by human rights abuses, military defeat, and economic mismanagement.
Restoring democratic institutions and the rule of the law was the President's highest priority. The first
economic team made an incoherent attempt at generating a wage-led recovery. An orthodox stabilization
program -- supported by an IMF Standby agreement - followed in mid-1984, but was not fully
implemented. Inflation accelerated in the first semester of 1985, reaching 30 percent per month by June.
A new economic team led by Minister Sourroullle then launched a heterodox stabilization program, the
Plan Austral. In addition to sharp austerity measures and revenue enhancements including a 10 percent
import tariff surcharge, the Plan emphasized measures to break inflation inertia: a fixed exchange rate,
a currency reform and broad-based income policies. Initially successful in reducing inflation to about
2 percent per month and triggering a strong recovery, confidence in the Plan began to erode when the
authorities - meeting political resistance - gave up on promised fiscal reforms.
6.    Monthly inflation increased to 4-5 percent in the second quarter of 1986, when price and wage
controls were relaxed, the currency devalued, and the exchange rate put on a crawling peg. The
authorities then adopted a program for economic reactivation, which emphasized public investment,
financial deregulation and trade reform; but also included the implementation of national and provincial
industrial promotion schemes established by the previous military government. Economic growth was
expected to restore public finances over the medium-term. However, the program failed to generate
confidence, and the Government was repeatedly forced to return to price controls and ad hoc austerity
measures. Unpredictable inflation became the main impediment to the recovery of private savings and
investment. When the Government finally turned to fiscal reforms as part of a new heterodox
stabilization effort -- the Plan Primavera - in August 1988, it could no longer muster the necessary
political support. In the second quarter of 1989, a complete loss of confidence resulted in massive flight
out of domestic assets, pushing the economy into hyperinflation. This left the President little choice but
to hand over office ahead of time to his newly elected successor - President Menem - in July 1989.
7.    The crisis proved cathartic.  Although hyperinflation returned in end-1989 and early 1990,
comprehensive structural reforms aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability and stimulating growth were
gradually put in place. These reforms included a more efficient tax structure, modernizing the tax
administration, ending industrial subsidies, opening public procurement to foreign competition,
downsizing the public administration, and privatizing public enterprises; in addition to deregulating
markets and completing the trade reform. Progressively, reforms improved the fiscal fundamentals and
brought in place the framework for an open, market-based economy with the state's role focussed on core
public functions. In March/April 1991 the Convertibility Plan - a policy framework characterized by
full currency convertibility at a legally fixed exchange rate and zero Central Bank financing - was
introduced. The Plan successfully brought forward the improvement in confidence. Monthly inflation
fell to 1-1.5 percent and interest rates declined sharply, inspiring a sustained strong recovery. The
recovery has been characterized by trade liberalization, deregulation and a continuing improvement in
the fiscal fundamentals. However the balance of payments continues to depend on massive and
potentially volatile capital inflows.



-3-
Figure 1: Argentina - Economic Indicators 1980-92
GDP Growth Rate and Resource Balance                           Investment and Savings  a/
, ~~~~2 5 T
10
- - -  N*aeenad
e    e   e       e    e   e   e    e   e                                            .       -Savings
eb  eb  o   eb  o   eF  e   eb   0   eb  e   o   el   l  O                               . . . .,..
-10                                                                    5
;. GOP  GmO-A          Bno               (%G fe e   Ine
GOP)
a/ % of GOP
Real Exchange Rate  a/                                               Monthly Inflation Rate a*
2SO-                                                ~~~~~~~~~~99 .-
July 00: 205%
200                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~79
1,50                                                                   59
50                                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
100                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~39
so                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19
I    O                                                    C-1
°~~~~~~~ D   e   e0 e   l    e  eS  4)  e                                          4 e      4e  e  S     4e  e   ee   a
Cd T~  ..ngsa _q        Om. * n..                                                      a C.ne. W
Non Financial Public Sector Balance *l                                            MI/GDP Ratio
2                                                      A3
0                                                                   7
.4                                                                  5
-65                                                                 4
.3                                                                  3
-10                                                                   2
-12                                                                   1
-14
0
-16                                                                          ;;            32            U2
ad Pom&.W of GOP. Adefal bgm..t -01i a9.1 00h g m 1932.



-4-
B. Trade Reform 1986-92
8.    Approach. Between 1986 and 1992 the authorities reduced the anti-export bias of the Argentine
trade regime from about 65 percent to 15 percent." This was brought about by a liberalization of
exports and imports, not by offsetting import protection and commodity export taxation with industrial
export promotion. (Export subsidies were increased in the first year but subsequently removed.) In
choosing liberalization over export promotion, the authorities intended to expose a higher share of
domestic output to foreign competition; and install a more transparent and stable trade regime, which
would drastically reduce the scope for rent-seeking and uncertainty about the rules of the game.
Liberalization also spared the fiscal expense of export subsidies while maintaining moderate tariffs on an
increased import volume as a significant revenue source.
9.    Objectives. The main policy objectives expected to be furthered by trade liberalization were:
(i) support for stabilization policies, making a non-accommodative monetary or exchange rate stance more
tenable through price and wage discipline in the enlarged tradables sector; (ii) a more efficient trade
balance adjustment to shifts on the capital and factor service accounts by allowing for a more flexible
response of exports and imports to real exchange rate changes driven by such shifts; mitigating the
required appreciation-depreciation, this would lower the pressure on the reserve position or the need for
adjusting the trade balance through changes in aggregate output; (iii) an upward shift in total factor
productivity (TFP) due to resource reallocation in line with comparative advantages, liberation of
resources absorbed by rent-seeking, reduced managerial inefficiency characteristic for firms operating in
oligopolistic domestic markets, and realization of scale economies; (iv) higher TFP growth connected with
export expansion, availability of a larger set of imported inputs and capital goods, and the pressure to
keep up with foreign competitors; and (v) increased investment as firms seek to improve productivity,
pursue export opportunities, and respond to the reduction in uncertainty brought about by a more
transparent and stable trade regime.
10.   Industrial subsidies - in addition to their detrimental fiscal impact - tended to undermine the
objectives of trade liberalization. The Alfonsin Administration discontinued the national industrial
promotion scheme in 1988 and made efforts to curb tax fraud in the context of the provincial regimes;
the Menem Administration suspended the provincial schemes in 1989, and in 1990 began to effectively
reduce long-term subsidies already granted by holding beneficiaries to their original investment and
employment commitments under these schemes.
11.   Main Reform Measures. Trade liberalization in the Argentine case meant dismantling complex
export and import regimes consisting of quantitative and payment restrictions, trade taxes and subsidies,
and administrative acts. The interventions were also subject to frequent changes on the product level -
in response to lobbying activities - and on the macro level for fiscal and balance of payments purposes.
The main quantitative instruments included: export prohibitions for various mineral, forestry and animal
products; quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for the private sector covering about 60 percent of
industrial production; buy national requirements for the public sector, effectively preventing all competing
imports; and restrictions on access to import financing. Export taxes on commodities and numerous
goods used as industrial inputs, subsidies for non-traditional exports, import tariffs in a 0-100 percent
The anti-export bias measures the extent to which trade interventions lower the domestic against the border price ratio
of exportables to importables. In this repo., the bias (B) is approximated by B = 1-(l-Tx)/((1 +TmX1 +Q)) where
Tx denotes the average export-weighted export tax (not of export subsidy), Tm the average production-weighted ad
vakrem import tariff, and Q the production coverage of quantitative import rostrctions. As captured by the equation,
the bias can be removed by either complete trade liberalization (i.e., removing all intervention on the export and
import side) or raising export promotion sufficiently to offset import protection and any product-specific export taxes.
While aggregate neutrality of the trade regime ( B=0 ) would result from both approaches, only trade liberalization
can obviously bring individual domestic product price ratios in line with their respective border price ratios.



range, tariff surcharges, and tariff-like duties were the main price instruments. In addition, systems for
reimbursing or exempting exporters from domestic indirect taxes and tariffs on imported inputs were
selective and non-automatic; and the anti-dumping regime was not consistent with the respective Tokyo
Round GATT Code. Administrative barriers included marketing boards for main export commodities;
prohibition of trade other than through licensed exporters and importers; required prior inspections for
food and pharmaceutical imports that were in practice unavailable; and cumbersome customs procedures.
Figure 2: Argentina - Trade Policy Indicators 1980-92
Import Tarifh and QR*                                    -xport Tax..
so                                                    2
Ma      T s        |    .                                     i~~~is 
s0
40                                                   1
lo I
F                                             .
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10 
N 0                                              2  
0
-    Q~~~-  -  -AVatagAd .--- -SI                                     -  -          - -  
vaiumm        Tattl SI
TailI                                         Export Tax Reve%nue I Export I
12.   The trade reform commenced in late 1986 with a major export liberalization combined with non-
traditional export promotion. A sector-by-sector removal of QRs began in October 1987 which reduced
the production coverage to about 15 percent in end-1988, but excluded final products; while the import
tariff surcharge was increased to 15 percent for fiscal purposes, the authorities also stopped entering new
commitments for the subsidization of incremental exports and suspended subsidized export financing.
In October 1988, the Government conducted a major tariff reform removing the tariff surcharge and
reducing the maximum import tariff rate to 40 percent with few exceptions of up to 50 percent; though
partly offsetting the effect with prohibitive specific tariffs (dollar per unit) for goods with electronic
components. In addition, the authorities made access to import financing fully automatic for most goods.
As part of the Plan Primavera, however, the authorities also administered a temporary dual exchange rate
for trade transactions effectively neutralizing the earlier export tax removal. As a result, the anti-export
bias of the trade regime was still at about 50 percent in end-1988 compared to 65 percent prior to the
reform. A reversal occurred in the final months of the Alfonsin Administration when the dual exchange
rate was replaced by a massive across-the-board export tax and import financing again made subject to
approval. The Menem Administration swiftly reinstated and completed full automaticity of import
financing, suspended the buy national requirement of public procurement and progressively lowered the
across-the-board export tax. The Govermnent also began a stepwise narrowing of the tariff range and
resumed the sector-by-sector removal of QRs, though neutralizing this in the case of textiles with specific
tariffs. By end-1990, the anti-export bias had come down to approximately 40 percent. Minister Cavallo
essentially completed the reform in 1991 with two major steps reducing the bias to about 17 percent.
Additional measures in late 1992 resulted in a further reduction of three percentage points.
13.   The principal instruments of the new regime are: automatic indirect tax reimbursement and tariff
exemption for exporters; ad valorem import tariffs (0-20 percent) and a so-called statistical tax (10
percent) equivalent to a flat tariff surcharge; and procedures (including anti-dumping) in line with the
Tokyo Round Codes. TMe Government intends to phase out the remnants of the old regime, such as QRs



-6 -
on certain makes of automobiles and a small export tax on oilseeds. Preferential tariffs apply to imports
from LAIA (Latin American Integration Association) countries. With Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay,
Argentina is also a member of the emerging Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). The
ongoing phased removal of all internal trade barriers to is to be completed by end-1994. The members
have agreed that the common external tariff (CET) not exceed 20 percent; negotiations on the CET
structure are likely to result in changes of Argentina's current tariff structure.
14.  Impact. The objectives of trade liberalization described above are shared by other reform policies
designed to focus the state on the supply of core public goods and bring market forces to bear on the
supply of essentially private goods. The contribution of trade liberalization to the attainment of the
objectives therefore is difficult to disentangle from that of other major reforms since 1989, such as
privatization, deregulation and removal of industrial subsidies. Research to that end requires more data
than presently available. At this stage, the impact of the trade reform is visible in the intermediate
objectives: a more transparent and stable trade regime as described above; and a higher share of
tradables in output as indicated by the strong expansion and diversification of trade depicted in Table 1
below. Most of this has been achieved after 1989. The Alfonsin Administration did achieve progress
toward a liberal regime, but inappropriate macroeconomic policies prevented the reform measures from
affecting trade. The partial reversal in the second quarter of 1989 suggest that the trade reform would
have remained an episode without the more comprehensive macroeconomic reforms which followed. The
reform measures did, however, provide a basis for the gradual advance of the Menem Administration
until end-1990 and the more drastic and comprehensive steps in 1991.
C. Bank Assistance
15.   The Bank supported the 1986/87 and 1988 phases of the trade reform (including 1988 efforts at
reducing industrial promotion) with the TPL 1 and the TPL 2 (Loans 2815-AR and 2996-AR,
respectively). The first loan was approved in May 1987 and disbursed in two tranches in August and
December. The second loan was approved in October 1988 and the first tranche disbursed in December;
the release of the second tranche in August 1990 supported the resumption of the trade reform (including
the reduction of industrial subsidies) by the Menem Administration. The two loans were the centerpieces
of relatively large Bank lending programs in support of, respectively, the Government's economic strategy
in 1986/87 and the Plan Primavera which began in August 1988. The Bank halted lending in January
1989 shortly before the collapse of the Plan Primavera. TPL 2 supervision then served as an important
vehicle for maintaining the policy dialogue through the change in administrations; and helped the
incoming team to rapidly restart the trade reform process. The release of the second tranche signalled
the resumption of Bank adjustment support for Argentina. New lending subsequently focussed on
privatization and broad public sector reforms.
16.   With the two loans, the Bank pursued assistance objectives beyond helping the Government open
the trade account. The wider objectives differed between 1986/87 (TPL 1), 1988 (TPL 2) and 1990
(release of the second tranche of the TPL 2). In 1986/87, the Bank participated in a concerted effort of
the IFIs and bilateral donors - predicated on the rescheduling of the public sector's debt to commercial
banks -- to provide fiscal and balance of payments support for a reform-based economic reactivation.
The Bank relied on the IMF's judgment that the Government's macroeconomic policy framework was
adequate to restore internal and external equilibrium. This assessment, however, was based on promises
the authorities proved unable to keep in the absence of broader public sector reforms. High and variable
inflation rendered the Bank's assistance objectives unattainable.
17.  In the second semester of 1988, the Bank supported the Plan Primavera through a US$1.25 billion
loan package (including the TPL 2).  The Fund considered the Plan as insufficient to obtain
macroeconomic stability. The Bank recognized the Plan as the President's last chance to avert the
economic and social costs of hyperinflation, including a possible military coup ahead of Presidential



- 7 -
elections scheduled for May 1989. Furthermore, the Bank was concerned about rising political pressures
to default on preferred debt following the suspension of interest payments to commercial banks in March
1988. The Bank's assistance objectives therefore were to help the authorities preserve democratic rule
and avert hyperinflation, years of delay in structural reforms, and a possible default on preferred debt.
These objectives were attained except for the prevention of hyperinflation. However, delaying the
outburst proved critical for holding the election calendar intact. The Bank became a trusted advisor to
Argentina laying the ground for the key role it would play in the economic turn-around over the following
few years. The objectives, furthermore, were attained without a major increase in exposure. The Bank
used agreed monitorable targets to halt disbursement in early 1989, after only US$150 million of the
US$1.25 billion loan package had been disbursed. The different response of the Bank and the Fund also
led to controversies; the resulting 'Concordat" between the two institutions paved the way for a more
fruitful division of labor, in which the Bank takes the lead in the institutional underpinning of
macroeconomic policy whereas the Fund leads the way in discussion of short-term targets and the general
architecture of the macroeconomic policy framework, but both in consultation with the other institution.
18.   At the time of second tranche release in August 1990, the Menem Administration had significantly
advanced in its reform program: it had broadened the VAT base, modernized the tax administration, and
privatized the telephone company and the national airlines. The objective at that stage was to help the
Government implement a comprehensive reform program which the Bank had helped to design; and this
objective has clearly been attained.
III. TPL 1
A. Strategy
19. Background. In April 1986, the economic policy team hosted strategy discussions with the Bank,
in which it identified the 'resumption of growth without re-igniting inflationary pressures' as the central
issue.- As described above, the team expected economic growth to lead to a sustainable fiscal position
in the medium-term; in the interim, inflation would be held in check with "moderately tight" fiscal policy
and "timely" incomes policy. The Government requested Bank support for a program of infrastructure
investments and reforms in public enterprises, the financial sector, agriculture, and trade. Industrial
promotion was not discussed.
20.   At the time, the Bank was less involved in Argentina than was the Fund.  The Bank's
comparatively low end-1985 exposure -- about US$600 million against the Fund's US$2.2 billion -
reflected past concerns about the Government's severe indebtedness and dependence on the inflation
tax.2' In 1986, however, the Bank decided to provide major support relying on the Fund's positive
assessment of the Plan Austral. (The Fund had reenacted the 1984 Standby agreement which became
fully drawn in September 1986.) Adjustment lending included the TPL 1, an Agricultural Sector Loan
(ASL), and a proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan in support of financial deregulation. Investment
lending was proposed in support of export promotion (intended to shift the emphasis from subsidies to
public services), credit for small and medium-scale industries, public enterprise restructuring, including
privatization in the petrochemical industry, and improvement of the port of Bahia Blanca.
21.   Trade Reform. The Government's trade strategy had the following components: (i) export
liberalization through the removal of commodity export taxes and the granting of "free trade status" for
industrial exporters; this involved a removal of export taxes on industrial goods (though with significant
2' Argentina: Economic Recovery and Growth, Report No. 6467-AR, May 19, 1987.
31 Arzentina: Economic Memorandum, January 1985 (Red Cover).



-8-
exceptions for industrial inputs), improved reimbursement of indirect taxes, a comprehensive and fully
automatic TAR for intermediate and capital goods, and simplified export clearance through a wone-
window' process; (ii) promotion of non-traditional exports through continued Central Bank export
financing at below-market interest rates and subsidies for contractal incremental exports under a special
export program (PEEX); (iii) a gradual removal of QRs to start after employment had fully recovered;
and (iv) maintenance of a competitive exchange rate through a crawling peg. Given the initial focus on
the export side, a strong up-front devaluation was not required. As mentioned before, the inconsistency
of trade reform and increasing industrial promotion was not discussed at the time.
22.   The strategy was expected to allow for a more efficient trade adjustment and to weaken political
resistance. The dramatic resource balance shift of the first half of the 1980s had occurred through import
contraction rather than export expansion, and had been accompanied by output losses (Figure 1, Table
1). The Government expected export liberalization and promotion to bring underutilized capacity into
production. Higher exports would allow for additional imports, but with continued protection these
would concentrate on non-competing intermediates and capital goods, i.e., not result in displacements.
Under full employment conditions, a gradual import liberalization would later increase productivity
without significant adjustment costs.  The strategy also promised to postpone the resistance of
industrialists until export interests would be stronger and union concerns about a loss of jobs weaker.
B. Loan Design
23.   The Bank agreed to work with the authorities on a sequence of trade loans: the first would
support export diversification; the second and, possibly, third loans would support the import
liberalization phase. The scope of the first loan was narrower than suggested by its titde: the removal
of commodity export taxes was supported through the ASL approved in 1986; and support for changes
in export promotion from subsidies to public services was planned to be provided through a proposed
export promotion projectY This left free trade status for industrial exporters as the central subject of
the TPL 1.
24.   The TPL I was structured in a policy component (US$496 million) with two equal tranches and
a Technical Assistance (TA) component (US$4 million). Sector policy conditionality was light because
the Government implemented the main measures - described in Annex IV - ahead of Board presentation:
a study on interest rates used in the Central Bank's export financing scheme (for effectiveness); and
additional improvements in the exporters' status such as a one-stop window for clearing documents, an
extension of the TAR to capital goods, and the removal of a number of QRs on inputs used in export
production (for second tranche release).  The macroeconomic conditions were approval of the
macroeconomic framework (for effectiveness); and satisfactory 1987 performance and 1988 plans with
respect to fiscal, public investment, real exchange rate, and external financing objectives (for second
tranche release). The TA component would finance studies underpinning the import liberalization phase,
consultant services to improve economic reform management, and equipment purchases for the Customs
Administration.
C. Implementation
25.   Effectiveness. The Board considered and approved the TPL 1 in May 1987, and the loan became
effective in August. However, inflationary pressures had already returned. The Government had twice
reintroduced price and wage controls when monthly inflation exceeded 8 percent in August 1986, declined
shortly and then again exceeded 8 percent in February 1987; by July 1987, monthly inflation was at 10
percent (Figure 1). The President's Report on the TPL I only described the targets of a new Standby
4' Processing of the proposed export promotion project was discontinued when the Government suspended subsidies in
October 1987.



- 9 -
agreement about to be presented to the IMF Board, but offered no independent assessment of the
program's realism. The Government readily met the sector condition for effectiveness. Following
approval of the new Standby agreement in July, the Bank considered the macroeconomic framework
satisfactory and released the first tranche.
26.   Plan Octubre. Far from meeting standby targets, the Government fuelled spending ahead of mid-
term elections in September by allocating massive Central Bank rediscounts to the Industrial Development
Bank (BANADE), the National Housing Bank (BHN) and provincial banks. The private sector responded
with shifts out of domestic assets - Ml as a share of GDP fell from 6.3 percent in April to 4.5 percent
in October - and by raising producer price in anticipation of another freeze - wholesale price inflation
reached 31 percent in October. A new stabilization program - the Plan Octubre - then announced fiscal
measures worth 5 percent of GDP (including an immediate raise of the import tariff surcharge to 15
percent), in addition to tight money and price controls. In an effort to enhance policy credibility, the
Government also accelerated import liberalization (described below) and financial deregulation (including
complete liberalization of interest rates and remuneration of minimum reserves and forced investments
with the Central Bank). The IMF supported the Plan Octubre by waiving first quarter targets and
declaring Argentina eligible for the second drawing. Inflation fell for two months, reaching a low of 3
percent in December.
27.   Strategy Shift. The Plan Octubre signalled a shift in trade reform strategy. Concerned about the
fiscal cost of subsidies, the Government stopped entering new commitments regarding export financing,
the PEEX, and the national industrial promotion scheme. Existing contractual obligations would be kept,
however, and the Government made no effort to check the proliferation of tax exemptions under the
provincial industrial promotion regimes estimated at about 3.5 percent of GDP. The Government also
attempted to rapidly remove QRs in an effort to bring about greater price discipline through import
competition ahead of the next relaxation of price controls. QRs with a production coverage of 10 percent
were removed in October, and the complete elimination of Annex II of Decree 4070/84 - containing QRs
with a production coverage of 33 percent - announced for year's end. However, the Government lacked
the political backing to bring this about. Instead, it negotiated a sector-by-sector removal of QRs with
sector representatives. This meant that final products were effectively excluded from the reform, thus
undermining the price discipline objective.
28. Second Tranche Release. The events in the second semester of 1987 made obvious the
limitations of a program lacking fiscal reforms and of a trade reform without rapid import liberalization.
In this situation, the Bank and the Government begun a policy dialogue on comprehensive reforms to
restore public finances while also completing trade and financial sector reforms. The Bank was prepared
to release the second tranche of the TPL 1 provided the Government was in compliance with the loan
conditions. In December 1987 the macroeconomic program received strong support from the IMF; while
there was no external financing plan for 1988, the Government had achieved in 1987 a new multi-year
rescheduling agreement with commercial creditors; investment was up, if largely as a result of tax
incentives and give-away loans; and the real exchange rate had become more competitive, though this
reflected capital flight and a cyclical downswing in agricultural export revenues. In addition, the
Government was overperforming on sector conditionality, primarily on account of major QR removals.
In this light, the Bank released the second tranche in December 1987.
29.   Technical Assistance. As discussed below, implementation of the TA component was totally
unsatisfactory. The loan closed in December 1990 without any disbursements for technical assistance.



- 10 -
IV. TPL 2
A. Plan Primavera
30.   The Plan Octubre unravelled at year's end when Congress returned an inadequate tax package.
Revenues continued to fall as a result of the Olivera-Tanzi effect, increasing evasion, and further tax base
erosion through provincial industrial promotion. The Fund declined to consider yet another waiver; and
relations between Argentina and the Fund grew tense. In March 1988, the Government stopped interest
payments to external commercial creditors. Neither this step nor further depression of public wages and
investment and underpayment of pensioners and suppliers could stop the flight out of austral-denominated
assets: the private sector had lost all confidence that the Government would be able to replace such
unsustainable measures with permanent adjustment. The austerity measures provoked a string of general
strikes. In July - 11 months before scheduled Presidential and Congressional elections - the complete
loss of economic control was imminent; and the threat of a successful military coup had become real.
Preserving constitutional democracy became the President's overriding objective. To that end, he
appealed to industrialists, the rural sector and the unions to cooperate in a new stabilization program
described below. The authorities also sought the support of the U.S. Government and the IFIs.
31.   Bank Strategy. In the first semester of 1988, the Bank assisted the Government in the design of
public sector reforms and continued processing proposed loans. The Board approved a Social Sector
Management TA Loan (SSMTAL) and a Banking Sector Loan (BSL), though the latter was not signed
because tighter monetary policy precluded compliance with a condition limiting reserve requirements.
Proposed sector loans in housing (HSL) and power (PSL) were negotiated and the proposed TPL 2 was
appraised. In addition, staff worked intensively on a proposed loan in support of public enterprise
reforms and a proposed TA loan for tax administration. In view of the rapid deterioration in the second
quarter of 1988, however, the Bank took the position that no loan could be presented to its Board until
macroeconomic stability had been regained and maintained for at least two quarters.
32.  The announcement of the Plan Prinavera on August 3 led the Bank to reconsider. The Bank
considered the Plan as the Administration's last chance to avert the economic and social costs of
hyperinflation, including a possible military coup, if the Government were to loose control of the
economy 10 months ahead of elections. The Bank was also concerned about rising political pressures
to repudiate preferred debt. (IFI exposure totaled US$8.1 billion at end-1987, of which the Fund and
the Bank held US$3.9 billion and US$2.1 billion, respectively.) The situation was particularly worrisome
because Fund-Government relations had broken down.
33.   Under these conditions, the Bank focussed on helping the authorities give greater coherence to the
Plan; and seeking agreement on monitorable policies and targets that would allow withholding
disbursement if it went off-track. A mission to Buenos Aires in August conducted the dialogue on an
improved program, assessed domestic support, and negotiated the TPL 2 and changes in the conditionality
of the BSL. A mission in September worked with the Government on the 1989 budget - submitted to
Congress later in the month - and negotiated supplemental spending cuts and revenue increases. The
Government's cooperation with the two missions resulted in a consistent macroeconomic program
(described below), which could succeed if political support were forthcoming.  The Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) (Annex Vll) committed the Government to monitorable policies and targets.
34.   A US$1.25 billion loan package in support of the Plan Primavera - consisting of the TPL 2, the
renegotiated Banking Sector Loan, the Housing Sector Loan, and the Power Sector Loan - was
announced at the Annual Meetings in Berlin and presented to the Board in October. The Board approved
the package with one negative vote and two abstentions plus one abstention on the Banking Sector Loan.
As described below, the Fund subsequently declined to join in the support of the Plan.



- 11 -
35.   The Macroeconomic Program. The Plan Primavera aimed at holding monthly inflation to 4
percent and reducing the demand of the combined public sector (CPS) on the financial system to a
compatible level; excessive strain on monetary policy was to be avoided consistent with real monthly
interest rates of not more than 1.5 percent. To that end, the Plan included: (i) nominal anchors to bring
the inflation rate down rapidly, i.e., price guidelines agreed with industrialists and monthly targets for
the exchange rate, public service prices, and public sector wages; (ii) measures to reduce the CPS deficit
as a share of GDP from 4.6 percent in 1988 to 2.4 percent in 1989; (iii) external financing sufficient to
obviate CPS borrowing from domestic financial markets; and (iv) structural reforms in the public sector,
trade and finance to buttress credibility and thus lower the risk premium for holding australes.
36.   A key element of the Plan was a dual exchange rate system designed for the Central Bank to make
an operating profit on its foreign exchange transactions in 1988-89. Monetary policy would be calibrated
to hold the parallel exchange rate 20-25 percent above the official exchange rate. The Central Bank
would acquire foreign exchange from agro-based exporters at the official rate and sell it to non-oil
importers at the parallel rate. (Mixed rates would apply to industrial exporters and oil importers.) The
exchange rate would be gradually unified, starting in April. This was equivalent to a temporary export
tax. Other components of planned CPS deficit reduction were a broadening of the VAT tax base,
effective administrative control of industrial promotion benefits, supplemental measures affecting public
enterprises, and a negative net flow on the Central Bank's rediscount account.
B. Trade Strategy and Loan Design
37.   Import Liberalization. The Plan Primavera was accompanied by a tariff reform which removed
the 15 percent surcharge; placed 98 percent of all ad valorem tariffs (on a production-weighted basis) in
a 0-40 percent band with the remaining 2 percent going up to 50 percent; and reduced the average
production-weighted import tariff (including the surcharge and tariff-like duties) from 61 percent to about
45 percent. The tariff reductions were relevant for importers because the Government had previously
reduced the production coverage of QRs included in Annex H of Decree 4070/84 from 43 percent
(October 1987) to 18 percent (August 1988), and had confirmed its intention to gradually eliminate the
rest in collaboration with industrialists. Also important in that regard, the Government expanded the
automatic import list (containing goods for which import financing was not subject to the prior approval
of advance import declarations) by 2000 positions (to about 7800) and announced that full automaticity
would rapidly be expanded to all positions not covered by QRs (about 11000). However, the Government
also assured industrialists that it would, if necessary, provide protection against dumping and foreign
export subsidies (using the existing GATT-inconsistent anti-dumping regime) and against cyclical
downswings in import prices, particularly textiles (using specific minimum import tariffs designed to
prevent tariff payments per physical unit to fall below a given dollar equivalent).- The Government
intended the import liberalization measures to be permanent, unlike the implicit export tax which was to
be gradually removed in 1990. This was consistent with the October 1987 shift in trade reform strategy
described above.
38.   The short-term objectives of this strategy followed from the macroeconomic program: (1) The
PP implied an upward shift in foreign savings; without import liberalization and with the implicit export
tax trade balance adjustment would occur through lower exports rather than higher imports which would
have a recessionary effect. (2) Higher imports were needed for the Central Bank to make a profit on
foreign exchange transactions; they would also mitigate the adverse revenue impact of tariff reductions.
(3) Increased import competition and implicit export taxation both would put downward pressure on
' The two Instruments were at the time rarely, if ever, used. The anti-dumping regime was devoid of an injury teat
and defined as dumping imports priced 15 percent or more below competing domestic goods. However, claims for
counterWiling duties could not be pursued due to the absence of an administative mechanism. Specific duties were
in effect for milk powder and a small number of industrial inputs including bearinp.



- 12 -
tradeables prices. (4) Finally, a major step toward import liberalization would help buttress policy
credibility in general.
39.   Loan Design. The design of the TPL 2 reflects the Bank's assistance objectives, namnely support
for: (i) the PP as discussed above; (ii) further trade reform with a view toward increasing chances that
import liberalization would be sustained irrespective of the fate of the PP, liberalization would not be
undermined by other measures, and the implicit export tax would truly be temporary; and (iii) suspension
of national industrial promotion and first steps toward curbing provincial industrial promotion.2' The
loan was structured in a policy component with two tranches and an optional TA component (Annex
IX).!' Loan effectiveness and second tranche release were contingent on the attainment of the
macroeconomic objectives set out in the LDP. Regarding import liberalization, the main effectiveness
conditions were the implementation of the tariff reform and expansion of the automatic list described
above. Further effectiveness conditions had the purpose of restricting possibilities for undermining the
reform: the production coverage of QRs could not be increased; advance import declarations for goods
on the automatic list were to serve statistical purposes only; the production coverage of specific import
duties could not exceed 7 percent; and countervailing duties would be counted against the tariff reform
targets, i.e., would have to be offset by other tariff reductions. For second tranche release, the Bank
required an additional 3 percent reduction in the production coverage of QRs, and extension of the
automatic list to all positions not subject to QRs. Regarding export liberalization, the Bank required a
reduction of the production coverage of industrial exports to 7.5 percent (from 15.1 percent in late 1987)
for second tranche release. With respect to industrial promotion, the loan supported the previous
suspension of the national regime which had reduced tax incentives under that regime by one-half (0.8
percent of GDP). For second tranche release the Bank required implementation of a program of audits
of beneficiaries under the provincial regimes designed to curb tax evasion resulting from the weak
administration of these regimes. The TA component was intended to strengthen control over industrial
promotion by covering the costs of external auditors, consultants, and computer equipment.
C. Implementation by Alfonsin Administration
40. Effectiveness. The Government implemented the tariff reform in October. With the Plan
Primavera on track and all effectiveness conditions having been met, the Bank released the first tranche
on November 15, 1988. The Government worked toward meeting second tranche conditions for a release
in March 1990. The targets for the production coverage of QRs and industrial export taxes were reached
in December. However, efforts to meet the other conditions slowed when the attention of the economic
team became absorbed by the developing macroeconomic crisis. The new Secretary of Industry and
Foreign Trade used the occasion to extend specific import tariffs to goods with electronic components:
while the coverage for specific duties remained within the limits of TPL 2 conditionality, this action did
much to undercut the credibility of the reform as it affected consumer goods the public had expected to
become available.
41.   Reversals. Various parts of the trade reform suffered reversals in the turmoil that followed the
collapse of the Plan Primavera in February 1990 described below. This includes the introduction of an
explicit across-the-board export tax of 25 percent in April when the exchange rate was unified. Prior
Y  Prior to loan negotiation, the Government and the Bank had envinged a wider ecope for the industry component.
The Government had expected a draft industdal promotion law, which was being debated in the Induwy Commisuion
of Congress, to abrogate the provincial regimes and vest enbanced control powers in the Minity of Ecooomy. At
the time of loan negotiations, however, Congress had not determined the Ministry's role. In the Government'.
judgement, loan conditionality to that effect would be counterproductive. The scope of the loan and the loan amount
were therefore reduced.
2' The first tranche would be US$150 million, the second tranche US$150 million les proceeds for TA, and the TA
component would be up to US$2.35 million.



- 13 -
approval of advance import declarations as a condition for import financing was reintroduced, voiding
the move to full automaticity. The Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE) also encouraged the
filing of anti-dumping complaints by making the content of import declarations available to domestic
producers.
42.   MacroeconomIc Performance. The Plan Primavera achieved its targets in the first three months.
However, confidence eroded when promised domestic support proved half-hearted: industrialists
overstepped agreed price guidelines, unions allowed a bitter strike against the public sector wage freeze
to go ahead, and Congress moved only slowly and reluctantly on the 1989 budget. The Government also
failed to make the supplemental expenditure cuts promised in the LDP. Reduced confidence increased
interest rates the Government had to offer for keeping the parallel exchange rate in the target range. The
resulting recession depressed imports, which reduced profits from foreign exchange transactions and
turned the purchase of export earnings into a major source of money creation. Capitalization of the
public sector's mushrooming interest bill led to unsustainable growth in austral-denominated assets
eventually resulting in a run. On February 6, the authorities bowed to the inevitable and stopped
defending the parallel exchange rate, thus ending the Plan.
43. Over the following months, the authorities made various futile attempts to halt the acceleration
of inflation. However, the Government - deserted by the interest groups to which it had appealed when
launching the Plan Primavera - had lost credibility. The flight out of domestic assets continued,
apparently driven by fears of a maxi-devaluation and of a return to populist policies as a result of the May
elections. Monthly inflation peaked at 205 percent in July, when the newly elected President took office
ahead of time.
44.   Bank Response. The Bank suspended disbursement in March 1989 after only US$150 million
- the first tranche of the TPL 2 - of the US$1.25 billion loan package had been disbursed. While the
Plan Primavera failed, Bank support had achieved other important objectives. By helping the Government
to maintain economic control for another half year, it contributed to preserving the democratic process.
(he Government survived a military coup attempt in December and a violent left wing attack on the
barracks in January. The May elections resulted in Argentina's first civilian transfer of power since the
1930s.) The policy dialogue remained close throughout the crisis, and the Government stayed current
on its obligations to the Bank, though it fell behind on obligations to the Fund in early 1989.
D. Implementation by Menem Administration
45.   Reform-based Stabilization. President Menem assumed office in July 1989, in the midst of
hyperinflation and recession. The new Government recognized the priority for sustainable and credible
fiscal adjustment, which could only be brought about by divesting the state of all non-core functions,
eliminating subsidies, restoring the tax base, and rebuilding the tax administration. The President wielded
the necessary political power, not the least because the collapse of the PP and the following crisis had
finally discredited the old interest groups. The Government moved aggressively to reduce corruption in
the tax administration and - with technical assistance from the Bank - modernizing the tax office.
Congress passed reform-enabling legislation in the first few months: an Economic Emergency Law
suspending subsidies and 'buy national" requirements for public procurement; and a Reform of the State
Law authorizing the downsizing of the public administration and the privatization of virtually all public
enterprises. A Tax Reform Law broadening the VAT base to nearly all sectors followed in December.
In the second quarter of 1990, the Government completed the divestiture of the telephone system and the
national airlines. With these de facto irreversible reforms, the President regained for the Government
the credibility which had dissipated in the years following the initially successful Plan Austral.
46.   The structural reforms generated the basis for the Government's stabilization program. The
program evolved through a number of phases, as new waves of inflation forced the introduction of new



- 14 -
measures to stabilize in a sustainable manner. The first attempt - the so-called BB Plan - resembled
the Plan Primavera in using the exchange rate and public service prices as nominal anchors (after massive
up-front adjustments), striking voluntary price agreements with industrialists, and running tight monetary
policy to hold the parallel exchange rate in line with the official rate. The Fund provided support through
a new Standby agreement approved in November. By December, however, the plan had led to an
unsustainable build-up of short-term public sector debt. The next stabilization effort - the Bonex Plan
- included a forced exchange of the Government's short-term domestic debt for 10 year dollar-
denominated bonds, which sharply reduced the public sector's domestic interest bill and improved control
over the money supply. The exchange rate was allowed to float. When the program failed to prevent
another outburst of hyperinflation in early 1990, a new economic team responded with the third
stabilization effort in March 1990, which essentially supplemented the previous one by deepening fiscal
adjustment.  It was named after the Decree 435 through which the Government progressively
implemented cuts in subsidies and public employment as well as revenue enhancements. Inflation
declined over the year and for the first time this program succeeded in turning an overall public sector
primary deficit - 6 percent of GDP in 1988 - into a slight surplus. When a run against the currency
developed at year's end, the economy did not spin-off into hyperinflation; after a devaluation, the public
sector was much better positioned for the next stabilization program - the Convertibility Plan - than
at any time during the 1980s.
47.   Trade Reform. The Menem Government resumed the import liberalization process. Full
automaticity of imports not subject to QRs was rapidly reinstated and the practice of publishing advanced
import declarations discontinued. The Government also began a gradual process of eliminating the
remaining QRs and of further reducing ad valorem import tariffs, going beyond second tranche release
conditions. By end-July 1990, the production coverage of QRs in Annex II of Decree 4070/84 was down
to 7 percent (instead of 15 percent), the production-weighted average ad valorem tariff measured 18
percent (instead of 30 percent), and the maximum tariff was at 24 percent (instead of 50 percent). The
Government also suspended the public procurement law; while maintaining a preference for local
suppliers, it abolished the prior consultation with domestic producers which had effectively prevented
competing imports.
48.   The modernization of tax administration in 1989/90 allowed the Government to fight tax fraud
under industrial promotion in a more effective manner than envisaged in the TPL 2 loan agreement -
essentially by transferring responsibility from the promotion agency (SICE) to the Tax Office (DGI).
Though much remained to be done in this regard, the Tax Office had by mid-1990 more than met the
second tranche release condition. More importantly, the Government had suspended the regimes, thus
ending the proliferation of tax exemptions.
49.   The export tax introduced in April 1989 violated the second tranche release condition of a
production coverage of not more than 7.5 percent. The Menem Government gradually reduced the rate
of the surcharge. Regarding non-agro-based exports, the tax dropped to 7 percent in December 1989 and
to 3 percent in February 1990. It was briefly raised to 12 percent in May, and subsequently phased out.
In June, indirect tax reimbursements were reinstated. However, the Government held on to export taxes
on agricultural commodities and on agro-based manufactures until April 1991. Though the tax rate was
lowered to 25 percent in January 1990 (after 39 percent in the second half of 1989), this constituted a
significant burden to exporters.
50.   Second Tranche Release. Given the Government's underperformance on the export side and
overperformance in liberalizing the import regime, a central issue for the Bank was whether, on balance,
the Government had reduced the anti-export bias of the trade regime to at least the level implied by
second tranche conditionality, namely about 47 percent. With a bias of about 44 percent in July 1990,
this was the case. The Bank also considered that the macroeconomic policy environment was at that point
finally consistent with attainment of the objectives of the loan. (The IMF had signified its endorsement



- 15 -
of the Government's macroeconomic program by reactivating its 1989 Standby in May 1990.) The Board
therefore waived the export tax condition and approved the release of the second tranche on July 31,
1990.
51. Subsequent Developments. The 1986-90 trade reforms were followed in 1991 by measures that
were both more drastic and comprehensive. As described above, these included not only the nearly
complete elimination of export taxes and QRs, but also the removal of pernicious administrative barriers
-- a task not attempted in the previous years. Notably, the Government acceded to the relevant Codes
of the Tokyo Round - while also playing an active role Uruguay Round negotiations on their
improvement - and placed imported and domestic goods on an equal footing regarding sanitary and health
inspections.
V. IMPACT OF TRADE REFORM
52.   Trade liberalization as discussed above is expected to contribute to price discipline under a non-
accommodative monetary-exchange rate policy; efficiency of trade adjustment to shifts in the resource
balance; the level and rate of growth of productivity; and ex-ante investment. It shares these objectives
with other reform policies aimed at macroeconomic adjustment and market-based development including
reforms of the tax structure, removal of subsidies, privatization, and, deregulation. A quantitative analysis
of the contribution of the Argentine trade reform is difficult because the major reform steps occurred
simultaneously with the other reforms, and only then in the last 2-3 years. Perhaps the most direct short-
term impact is on the efficiency of trade adjustment to the dramatic shifts in Argentina's resource balance;
this is also of relevance in the near future as capital inflows are expected to decline from the unusual level
reached in the aftermath of the Convertibility Plan. The following impact analysis therefore concentrates
on trade adjustment.
53.   [IEiciency of trade adjustment is equivalent to a flexible response of exports and imports to
relative price changes. In the case of a required increase in the resource balance, this reduces the
magnitude of the necessary real depreciation; and -- given downward price and wage resistance - the
threat of recessionary adjustment. A net export equation has been estimated over 1976(1)-1990(4) using
OLS to obtain information on the pre-reform elasticities.Y The following presents only the coefficients
for output, investment, and the real exchange rate:
NX =   -.380 yA -   .304 I +    .014 REER +    .027 REER(-1) +    .044 REER(-2)
(-5.27)      (-3.81)     (.64)             (1.43)               (2.71)
AdjR2 = .822; DW  = .766
where NX denotes real net exports as a share of real GDP, yA output deviation from trend (measured
by Hodrick-Prescott filter), I total real investment, and REER the trade weighted real exchange rate using
the combined domestic price index.2' The coefficients show the expected negative association of net
exports with output and investment (reflecting the higher import intensity of investment compared to
F' The estimated equation is based on assumptions that the net supply of tradables to the world market depends on
(i) domestic demand pressures, (ii) the composition of domestic demand, (iii) the real exchange rate, (iv) the terms
of trade, and (v) seasonal factors. The dependent variable is the difference between the volume of exports and
imports as a percent of real GDP measured at 1970 prices. Standard errors were corrected using a robust correction
for autocorrelation and hetero-skedasticity.
2' The terms of trade coefficient has a negative sign; the adverse impact of a terms of trade improvement on net export
volume may result from the favorable income effect, which tends to increase demand for imports. The seasonal
reduction of Argentina's fourth quarter net exports is reflected in the coefficients associated with seasonal factors.



- 16 -
consumption). The REER coefficients suggest a rather sluggish response of the trade balance. Adjusting
the net exports by, say, 3 percent of GDP - not uncommon in Argentina -- would require a real
depreciation of almost 35 percent, if it were to be brought about without a reduction in output and
investment. Given downward price resistance, it is not surprising that upward shifts in the resource
balance have in the past been associated with increased inflation and loss of output.
54.   Trade liberalization tends to increase the elasticity of net exports with respect to relative price
changes through trade expansion relative to output (magnifying the impact of a percentage change in
export and import volumes on the balance); and by diversifying exports and imports into goods with
comparatively high price elasticity (supply of non-traditional exports compared to agricultural exports and
demand for consumer imports compared to intermediate imports). Table 1 depicts the 1980-92 annual
indices (1986= 100) for the real exchange rate and the volume of output, exports, imports, and trade
(exports plus imports), as well as the ratio between the trade and output indices. The table also reports
the value shares of non-traditional exports in total exports and of consumer imports in total imports (all
merchandise trade), and the share of the real resource balance in real GDP.
Table 1: Argentina - Indicators of Trade Adjustment 1980-92
(Volume indices (1986 = 100) unless otherwise indicated)
Resource                                                    Trade   NT Export   C Import
Balance '  GDP   RER 2    Exports   Imports  Trade'    Rati4   Share              Share'
1980       -6.88     105      51          74        191      133       1.27       26          18
1981       -4.81      98      58          76        173      125       1.28       26          17
1982        3.32      94     106          80        100       90        .96       31           7
1983        4.77      96      98          86         95       91        .95       20           5
1984        3.95      99      86           89        93       91        .92       20           5
1985        7.55      95      99          110        79       95       1.00       28           5
1986        4.50     100    100           100       100      100       1.00       26           6
1987        3.48     102    109           91        121      116       1.13       31           5
1988        7.48      99     106          112       106      109       1.10       33           4
1989        10.94     95     144          120        82      101       1.06       40           4
1990        14.37     95    108           157        79      102       1.07       39           5
1991        3.30     103      80          151       163      157       1.52       35          14
1992       -3.68     112      74          152       292      222       1.98       28          26
I . In percent of GDP.
2. Real exchange rate using international trade weighted indices, domestic combined price index, and official
exchange rate.
3. Exports plus Imports.
4. Ratio of Trade and GDP indices.
5. Share of non-traditional exports in total merchandise exports in current prices.
6. Share of consumption good imports in total merchandise imports in current prices.
55.   As apparent from Table 1, the trade balance adjustments of more than 10 percent of GDP in
1980-82 and 1987-90 have both been associated with strong output losses as well as real depreciation.
In 1980-82, the adjustment occurred almost exclusively on the import side due to the reversal of the
1976-80 trade reform, which led to a contraction of trade relative to output. In 1987-90, a substantial
part of the adjustment happened on the export side with the ratio of total trade to GDP holding steady.
The export response was carried by a more than 100 percent increase in the volume of non-traditional
exports. This may be ascribed to the 1987-87 export liberalization which was supported through the



- 17 -
TPL 1. (Note th3t export subsidies were discontinued in October 1987 except for the payment of
contractual subsidies granted earlier under the PEEX.)
56.   The response of capital inflows to the successful Convertibility Plan has fueled strong real growth
in 1991-92 and - combined with declining external interest obligations - has shifted the resource balance
downward by about 20 percent of GDP. While the real exchange rate appreciated 31 percent (comparing
annual averages), this is less than the 108 percent depreciation which accompanied the 10 percent upward
shift of the resource balance in 1980-82. The major trade liberalization in 1991 is arguably the main
factor in the resilience of real exports allowing the trade adjustment to occur through import expansion.
As a result real trade has almost doubled relative to real GDP. Import diversification - as indicated by
the five-fold increase in the share of consumer imports - has also taken off in the last two years. As
noted before, import liberalization largely bypassed final goods until 1991.
57.   These developments increase the chance for a new correction in the resource balance without the
output losses observed in the past. However, this also depends on domestic deregulation increasing price
flexibility in the non-tradables sector, thus allowing the exchange rate-based Convertibility program to
hold. In terms of the net export equation discussed above, the implication would be a loss in predictive
value after 1990.
VI. LESSONS FROM THE ARGENTINE TRADE REFORM EXPERIENCE
58.   The lessons of the Argentine experience in 1986-92 relate to: (i) the priority of reform-based
fiscal adjustment; (ii) the sequencing of stabilization and trade liberalization; (iii) the complementarity
between opening the economy and removing other components of state-led development policies; (iv) the
sequencing of different trade reform measures; (v) the issue of an accommodating devaluation; and (vi)
factors of sustainabiity.
59.  FIscal Adjustmnent. The failure and success of stabilization efforts, respectively, before and after
1989 underlines the importance of restoring the fiscal position through structural reforms. (In the
Argentine case this required not only reforms of the tax structure and tax administration but also the
divestiture of non-core functions of the state.) While such reforms improve the fiscal fundamentals only
gradually, they should be initiated at the beginning of the stabilization program. Heterodox policies can
help bring stabilization effects forward, but their impact will be short-lived without progress in fiscal
reforms. The events in 1986/87 suggest that initial disinflation and deficit reduction of heterodox policy
tempts policymakers to de-emphasize fiscal reforms and turn to reactivation policies in the vain hope that
economic growth will eventually solve the problem without requiring politically costly reforms.
60.   Stabilization and Trade Reform. The ineffectiveness of trade liberalization under conditions of
high and variable inflation has often been noted, as has the likelihood of their reversal for fiscal and
balance of payments reasons in such cases.2   However, it also has been observed that trade
liberalization need not wait for stabilization to be completed provided a credible stabilization program
based on sustainable fiscal adjustment is in place."1' It also has been suggested -- and supported with
evidence -- that trade liberalization should be part of the adjustment effort from the beginning, both to
increase price and wage discipline and to generate a more efficient framework for restoring a viable
10/ Thomas, Vinod, K. Matin, and John Nash, Lessons in Trade Policy Reform, World Bank, 1990.
I' Demetfios Papageorgiou, Armeane Choksi, and Michael Michaely, Liberalizinz Foreign Trade in Developin&
Countries: The Lessons of ExDerience, World Bank, 1990.



- 18 -
external position.2  The pre-1989 events confirm the first statement; and the post-1989 experience
provides strong support for the second and third recommendations.
61.   Cmnplementarity of Structural Reforms. The pre-1989 experience suggests that an isolated
trade reform which leaves other components of state-led development policy in place stands little chance
of success. Industrial subsidies, buy national rules for public procurement, a dominant role of public
enterprises, and regulation of virtually all domestic markets undermine the productivity objectives of trade
reform; their adverse fiscal impact drives inflation which renders trade liberalization ineffective.
Deprived of the benefits of liberalization, the reform cannot gain political support and may be reversed.
In contrast, the comprehensive reform program of the Menem Administration introduced measures
complementary to trade liberalization: increasing international competitiveness through deregulation and
privatization; removing the distortions and incentives for rent-seeking inherent in industrial promotion
and "buy national' rules for public procurement; improving the climate for private investment; and
reducing instability.  In turn, as described above, trade liberalization supported macroeconomic
adjustment.
62.   Sequencing of Trade Reform Measures. The Argentine experience suggests that the sequencing
of liberalization measures between the export and import side of trade is less important than that between
the removal of quantitative restrictions and trade taxes. For a country heavily dependent on trade tax
revenues, reforms of tax structure and tax administration are required before trade taxes can be eliminated
or brought down to a sustainable level. The removal of quantitative restrictions on exports and imports
at an early stage on the other hand can complement fiscal adjustment. It is also more effective in
expanding the share of tradables in domestic output by immediately establishing a link between foreign
and domestic prices. No less important, it gives a clearer message to the public that the Government is
serious about opening the economy. (In Argentina, the early export tax removal was reversed two years
later for fiscal reasons, whereas the removal of quantitative export restrictions was sustained. After the
first year, the Government also recognized that QRs were undermining efforts to establish greater price
discipline. QRs also rendered the TAR less effective as they required cumbersome procedures for
obtaining exemptions for export producers' imports. Not before the Government attempted a sweeping
QR elimination in late-1987 did interest groups organize resistance against the trade reform - an
indication that the reform was finally being taken serious.) The Argentine experience therefore supports
the case for a rapid dismantling of quantitative restrictions at the start of trade reform.2'
63.   Real Depreciation. Import liberalization implies an upward shift in the equilibrium real exchange
rate; export liberalization has the opposite effect. To the extent that import liberalization dominates, it
is generally recommended that the movement to the new equilibrium should be aided by an up-front
nominal devaluation; this would avoid the adjustment costs associated with the alternative of relying on
market pressures to produce real depreciation through a reduction in domestic prices and wages.L'W The
Argentine experience suggests that this recommendation may not be relevant for countries with a de facto,
if not legaily open capital account. With the equilibrium real exchange rate changing for reasons
unrelated to trade reform, it may be better to focus on deregulation to increase flexibility of domestic
prices and wages. The open capital account also largely rendered moot the question of sequencing
external liberaliza7ion, i.e., whether the capital account or the trade account should be opened first.'5'
"I Issues and Developments in International Trade Policy, IMF, World Economic and Financial Surveys, August 1992.
LI' Papageorgiou et al., op. cit.
L4/ Micbaely, Michael, D. Papageorgiou, and A. Choksi, Liberalizing Foreian Trade: Lessons of Exoerience in the
Developin2 World, Basil Blackwell, 1989.
JY James Hanson, Ooelin2 the Capital Account: A Survey of Issues and Results, World Bank, WPS 901, May 1992.



- 19 -
64.   Sustainability.  Argentina's experience is inconclusive regarding the need for a "big bang'
approach to trade reform to increase chances for its being sustained. The reform was successfully
coripleted with major actions in 1991 after 5 years of gradual progress. However, the reform suffered
a partial set-back through the implicit export tax in the Plan Primavera and a more serious reversal of
import liberalization in the second quarter of 1989. As discussed above, the return to export taxation
reflected a flaw in the sequencing of trade reform measures; a sustained export tax removal occurred only
after fiscal reforms had made the Govermment less dependent on these revenues. Other things being
equal, it appears doubtful that a more aggressive liberalization in 1986-88 would have prevented the
temporary reversal in 1989. The political support for a complete opening developed only after the 1989
collapse had made it plain that the country had no alternative. The change in public perception and the
inclusion of trade reform in a comprehensive program of macroeconomic and structural adjustment were
the main factors that made the opening sustainable.
VII. THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
65.   The weaknesses in the Bank's performance concern its support for a flawed economic program
and trade reform strategy in 1986/87, in both cases reflecting insufficient prior economic and sector
work. The Bank's support for the Plan Primavera was controversial, but needs to be evaluated in light
of the wider objectives at the time. After an ill-advised start, the Bank's performance in assisting the
authorities in the design and implementation of a comprehensive reform program, including trade
liberalization, has been outstanding. The management of the two loans cannot be faulted.
66.   1986/87 Econoniic Program. In 1986, the Bank agreed to support a growth-oriented economic
program with a large lending program including the TPL 1. The Bank relied on the Fund's assessment
of the macroeconomic program under the Standby agreement, which was positive even though the
Government had given up on fiscal reform. While concerned about weak public finance institutions, the
Bank did not follow up on the pre-Plan Austral CEM and probe the realism of the fiscal targets contained
in the Standby agreement. Only in late-1987 did the Bank intensify its own analytical work on
Argentina's public finances, which then revealed the extent of fiscal and public sector reforms necessary
to regain stability. Earlier work could have helped to establish the priority for improving the fiscal
fundamentals at a time when the Alfonsin Administration still enjoyed greater policy credibility and may
have been able to muster sufficient political support.
67.   A Wrong Start in Trade Reform. In extending the TPL 1 the Bank supported a trade reform
strategy which emphasized export liberalization and export promotion, postponed import liberalization,
and ignored the inconsistency of continued industrial promotion with trade reform objectives. As
observed above, the Bank's public finance analysis revealed only later that deep revenue reforms were
necessary for the state to absorb the adverse fiscal implications of this strategy. Furthermore, the main
analytical work on the industrial sector was done after the Government had implemented the principal
measures in late-1986. This work revealed the extent to which incentives were dominated by QRs,
approval requirements for import finarncing, and the national and provincial industrial promotion schemes.
Again, earlier work could have helped to identify the priority for removing these regimes. While the
measures toward free trade status supported by the loan were well designed, they could not correct the
basic anti-export bias of broader trade and industrial policy.
68.   Plan Primavera. In supporting the Plan Primavera, the Bank was fully aware of the high risk
that the plan would not succeed. Evaluating the Bank's performance solely in light of the plan's eventual
failure to prevent hyperinflation, however, would ignore the fact that the Bank pursued additional
legitimate objectives. The Bank accurately foresaw the risks of the Alfonsin Government loosing control
of the economy a year before the elections, falling to a military coup, and going into default with the



- 20 -
IFIs. Helping to preserve democratic institutions, avert default on preferred debt, and hold the medium-
term program of structural reforms on track were therefore key assistance objectives, which were attained
despite the plan's collapse in early 1989. The Plan did not fail because of internal inconsistencies;
instead, expected political support for the program did not materialize rendering the Government unable
to keep its commitments regarding VAT reform, improved tax administration, and public service prices.
However, the Bank adequately managed its own exposure risk by building into the loans monitorable
macroeconomic policies and targets, which enabled it to withhold disbursement in January 1989 after only
US$150 million of the US$1.25 billion loan package had been released.
69.   Assistance for Trade Reform. Once the Bank recognized the early mistakes described above,
it set out to work with the Government on the design of a comprehensive structural reform program
including the establishment of a liberal trade regime and the removal of industrial policies inconsistent
with the opening of the economy. The Bank's performance in assisting the design and implementation
of structural reforms has subsequently been of a very high order. This also applies to the management
of the TPL 1: the Bank's sector work and policy dialogue assisted the Government's shift of trade reform
strategy prior to the release of the second tranche, which is reflected in the overperformance on policy
conditionality. The Bank's loan management is difficult to fault: (1) The trade reform initiative and the
broader government program of which it was part were thoroughly discussed with the Government by
both working-level and high-level Bank officials, and an appropriate degree of government commitment
was obtained and documented. (2) The second loan was based on a solid understanding of Argentina's
trade reform needs and on careful and detailed technical analysis of the implications of the proposed
changes. Considerable technical effort was also made in the preparation of the first loan, but was
hampered by a lack of prior ESW  which as previously discussed led the Bank to support a flawed
economic and trade reform strategy. (3) The conditions established for tranche releases indicate the
Bank's close awareness both of the general macroeconomic and the specific trade policy steps required
to implement a successful trade reform package. (4) Bank supervision was close. Several comprehensive
working level Bank missions to Argentina were reinforced by higher level staff. Before and during loan
implementation, letters expressing Bank concerns regarding macroeconomic and other developments were
sent to the Government. (5) Bank technical support assisted the Government both in implementing the
trade reforms and in resolving difficulties with respect to loan audits. (6) Finally, the Bank made strong
efforts to ensure appropriate use of T.A. funds.
VIII. OPERATIONAL ISSUES
A. Program Relations with Government
70.   Overall project relations with the Government, notably with the senior officials of the Ministry
of Economy and SICE constituting the Governnent's loan preparation team, were close and effective.
Good initial understanding was reached with the Government as to the objectives and scope of the two
loans. Difficulties that arose with respect to the scope of the industrial incentive reform component of
TPL 2, which the Bank had determined in advance should be a central feature, were overcome. The
monitoring of compliance with loan conditions was facilitated by effective cooperation at the technical
level between the Bank and the Government. The dialogue with successive Ministers of Economy and
senior officials during the loan implementation phase was intensive; this was crucial for rapidly bringing
the reform back on track after the reversal in the final quar1er of the Alfonsin Administration. Bank
officials were made aware of, and to a large degree accepted, the constraints on the Alfonsin
Government's freedom of legislative action imposed by its position vis-a-vis the Congress.
Implementation problems, apart from that of continued export taxation, were resolved through discussion.
Bank management agreed to propose a waiver of the export tax condition only after a significant
overfulfillment of other conditions.



- 21 -
71.   There were, however, three areas of difficulty. (1) The Bank was clearly uneasy in releasing the
two tranches of TPL 1 and the first of TPL 2 because of uncertainties relating to fiscal performance.
This concern pervaded correspondence and dialogue with the Government throughout the loan
disbursement period. (2) The Bank found it virtually impossible to establish a clear understanding with
the government regarding the technical assistance component of TPL 1. As a result of the difficulties
experienced with this component, loan closing had to be extended from June 30, 1988, first to June 30,
1989, and finally to December 31, 1990. (3) Considerable difficulties were encountered in obtaining
satisfactory auditing of the import statements against which the loans were disbursed. However
satisfactory audit reports were eventually received.
B. World Bank-IMF Relations
72.   World Bank-IMF collaboration in establishing and monitoring the macroeconomic conditions for
the first and second tranche releases of TPL 1 was close. On July 23, 1987, the IMF approved a Standby
arrangement with Argentina, for US$1.4 billion, in support of the Government's July 1987-August 1988
economic program. This was a key consideration in the release of the first tranche of TPL 1. Similarly,
in deciding upon the second tranche release, the Bank took into account the IMF Board's authorization
of a second tranche drawing under the standby. The Bank proceeded with the first tranche release of
TPL 2 despite the lack of IMF backing for the PP. Although Fund Management indicated possible
support at a later stage, the Bank's action subsequently resulted in a period of tense Bank-Fund relations.
This ended with a "Concordat' between the two institutions, which has since resulted in a much closer
and more fruitful collaboration between both staffs. Since 1989, the Bank has taken the lead in the
institutional underpinnings of macroeconomic policy, whereas the Fund has led the way in discussions
of short-term targets and the general architecture of the macroeconomic policy framework, but both in
close consultation with each other. Such consultation also preceded the Bank's decision to release the
second tranche of TPL 2 in August 1990.
C. Loan Disbursement Performance
73.   The policy component of TPL 1 (US$496 million) was disbursed, as planned, in two equal
tranches in FY98 - following effectiveness on August 19, 1987, and second tranche release on
December 14, 1987. The remaining US$4 million, earmarked for technical assistance, was never
disbursed. The second loan (US$300 million) was disbursed in two equal tranches following effectiveness
on November 15, 1988 and second tranche release on August 9, 1990. Release of the second tranche,
originally anticipated during FY89, was delayed because of Argentina's failure to meet loan conditions
pertaining to macroeconomic stability and export taxation.
74.   The T.A. component of TPL I could not be disbursed despite considerable efforts on the side of
the Bank over more than three years. The component was allocated to equipment purchases for the
customs administration and to consultants' services for strengthening the Government's ability to carry
out is economic program. The Bank approved equipment purchases in April 1988, but canceled the
allocation in June 1989 as it appeared unlikely that the purchases would be made in the foreseeable future.
The Bank worked with successive economic policy teams on TORs for consultants. The Government
repeatedly requested and the Bank agreed to closing date extensions. The Government, however, never
reached the point of awarding consultant contracts. The remaining amount was canceled at loan closing
on December 31, 1990.
75.   Nonetheless, a significant amount of technical assistance was provided directly by the Bank. This
included the transfer to the Government of the SINTIA tariff database, a program to calculate the
production-weighted impact of tariff changes, and a model to calculate partial and general equilibrium
effective tariff rates. The Bank also undertook econometric modelling of the impact of import
liberalization measures and exchange rate changes on Argentina's balance-of-payments.



- 22 -
76.   Under TPL 2, US$2.35 million was allocated to goods and consultant services to strengthen the
Government's administrative control of the industrial promotion system. However, the allocation was
not mandatory and the Government elected not to use the proceeds of the loan for this purpose. Hence
second tranche release was for the full US$150 million.



- 23 -                               Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PRtOGRAM COMPLETION REPOR
ARGENnN
TRADE POIICY AND EPORfr DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
(Lo  2815-AR)
Co    wih Lo Cond
CONDITION                                 COMPLIANCE STATUS AT
RELEASE
A. Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche
Loan Agreement, Section 5.01
(a)  Bank approval of T.OR. for study of interest rates on          Complied
Borrower's export credit programs
(b)  Consistency of macroeconomic policy framework,                 Complied
including external borrowing policy, with the reform
program.
B. Release of Second Tranch:
Loan Agreement, Schedule 4
1.   Consistency of macroeconomic policy framework,                 Complied
including external borrowing and exchange rate policy,
with the reform program.
2.   Achievement of smooth and efficient performance of             Complied
temporary admission regimes
3.(i) Expansion of number of import tariff positions not     Complied
subject to prior approval of advance import declaration  Number expanded by 925,
(DJNI) by at least 700, raising the total to at least  representing an annual
7847, with an annual industrial production value of at  production value of
least $700 million                                     US$1,625 million
(ii}  Addition of at least such 700 positions to list subject  Complied
to automatic approval of DJNI                          769 tariff positions
covering important
industrial intermediates
added
4.   Preparation of 3-year calendar for reduction of import          Complied
tariff rats applicable to tariff positions subject to
temporary protection



- 24 -                                Annex I
Page 2 of 2
CONDITION                                 COMPLUANCE STATUS AT
RELEASE
5.(i) Expansion of 'ventanilla unica" one-step window        Partially complied;
process for approval of exports to all 49 customs      expansion to 31 offices;
offices                                                 Government undertakes
converting remaining
offices by end-1 987
lii)  Formal exclusion from one-step window process of all   Not complied; Government
de-facto non-participants                               promises compliance by
February 1988



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(Loan 2996-AR)
Compliance with Loan Conditions
CONDITION                                  COMPANCE STATUS AT
RELEASE
A. Effectiven8ss and Release of First Tranche
Loan Agreement, Section 5.01
(a)   Consistency of macroeconomic policy                             Complied
framework, including fiscal, monetary and exchange
rate policies, with objectives of the reform program
(b) (i) Reduction of production coverage of QRs to no more            Complied
than 18 percent; and
(ii)  Full automaticity of import authorization for at least          Complied
7800 tariff positions not covered by QRs
(c)  Reduction of production-weighted average tariff from             Complied
43 percent to 30 percent of CIF value of imports         Reduced to 18 percent
before Second Tranche
(d)  Reduction of maximum tariff to no more than 40                   Complied
percent for goods with a total production coverage of    Maximum ad valorem tariff
97 percent, and application of a maximum tariff of 50    reduced to 24 percent
percent for the remaining 3 percent                      before Second Tranche
(e)   Maintenance of production coverage of ad valorem                Complied
tariffs at a minimum of 93 percent (i.e restriction of
specific tariff goods with a maximum production
coverage of 7 percent)
(f)   Avoidance of additional tariff surcharges                       Complied
(g)  Inclusion of any countervailing duties, anti-dumping             Complied
duties and safeguard measures in calculating the
limitation imposed under b(i), (c) and (e) above
(h)   Satisfactory progress in auditing beneficiaries under           Complied
the Industrial Promotion System



-26 -                               Annex II
Page 2 of 2
CONDITION                                 COMPLIANCE STATUS AT
RELEASE
B. Release of Second Tranch;
Loan Agreement, Schedule 4
1.   Continued compliance with conditions under Section              Complied
5.01 (a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Loan Agreement       Further action under 5.01
(c) and (d) (See above)
2.0i) Reduction of production coverage of QRs to no more             Complied
than 15 percent                                         Coverage reduced to 7
percent
{ii)  Continuous compliance with section 5.01 (b)(ii) of             Complied
Loan Agreement (see above)
(iii)  Achievement of full automaticity of import                     Complied
authorization for all imports not covered by QRs
3.   Conformity of any countervailing duties, anti-dumping           Complied
duties and safeguards measures established with 2(i)     Government abstained
above and with Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement,      from granting any
paras. (c) and le) (see above)                          countervailing duties, anti-
dumping duties, and
safeguards
4.   Reduction of production coverage of export taxes on            Not complied
industrial goods to no more than 7.5 percent            30 percent of industrial
production still covered by
tariffs up to 10 percent.
Condition waived
5.   Elimination of all export controls except those                 Complied
established under Congressional Laws, international
agreements or for environmental protection and health
purposes
6(i)  Satisfactory progress in completing DGI's (Tax Office)  Complied in substance
program for auditing beneficiaries under the Industrial  Government suspended
Promotion Systems                                       approval of new projects,
eliminated the value-added
(ii)  Satisfactory progress in strengthening SICE's (Industry  tax exemption for
and Foreign Trade Secretariat) auditing capacity        suppliers, and temporarily
suspended 50 percent of
(iii)  Issuance of regulations establishing criteria for     benefits. Cost savings
evaluating and acting upon the results of SICE's audits  exceeded those obtainable
through administrative
(iv)  Furnishing to the Bank of action plan to deal with     control of beneficiaries.
results of DGI audits under (i} above                   The Government also
strengthened
administrative control in
ways that differed from
those envisaged in Loan
Agreement by transferring
authority from SICE to DGI.



- 27 -
Anem-
Annex liI: Policy Statement of Economic Adjustment: Ln. 281 5-AR     Page I of 9
AROELNTINA
TRALE ?OL CY AND :2XPORT DPVLR,)IVFCAT:ON LOAN
Pol cy Statement on Econom_.c Adjustment
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re:  Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment
The Government of Argentina wishes to request a World Bank loan
to support a trade policy and export diversification program.
Thi main objective of this ongoing program is to revitalize
grow:h and employment generation over the medium term, to strengthen the
incentive system towards the adoption of a comprehensive export-oriented
development strategy, to increase the productive efficiency of Argentine
industry, and to redress the balance of payments problems.   To this end,
exchange rate policy play. a major roie; the system of export incentives is
being strengthened; import protection is being rationalized; quantitative
and other restrictions to trade are being phased out; and various
administrative obstacles to good export performance are being eliminated.
A  process  of  medium-terM   structural  reform  has  been  initiated  ani
part:^ular emphasis has been given to the support of programs to promote
growth, employment and poverty alleviation.
Before going into the specific action programs through wh.ch the
policy  changes  will  be  instituted,  let  me  refer  to  several  other
interrelated matters dealing with efforts to arrest inflation and promote
growtn and some of their side effects; and to the ongoing adjustment
efforts  of the Government  that,  to a considerable  extent,  provide  the
macroeconomic framework for the trade policy reforms that the Government
has been adopting.
A. Adjustment Patterns of the Argentine Economy
Argentina  has undergone  a long  period  of very high  rates  of
inflation. Over the last 10 years, price increases have averaged a monthly
rate of 11t.  As can be expected during this period of high inflation, a
number of different stabilization programs were implemented. However, they
did not achieve the expected results.  The continuous changes in economic
policies have in themselves been a source of significant instability.
When the constitutional Government took office in December of
1983,  inflation had already  risen above 17% a month.   Moreover,  strong
inflationary  forces   were  already  at  work.           First,   the  previous
administration had ended its period with a huge fiscal deficit amounting to
16%  of  the  GDP.    Second,  most social  groups  had  been  demanding  an
improvement  in  living   standards  after  a  long   period  of  economic
stagnation.   Third, the heavy burden of the country's external debt had



-28 -
AnnexIII
Page 2 of 9
ncreasedl the Government a financing  requirements and limited tne growtn
potential of the economy, adding to inflationary pressures.
The Government initially adopted a gradualist approach. aimed at
reducing  ;nflation   steadily   wi thout  major  disruptions   of  economic
activity.   Thus,  in 1984, real output  recovered  slightly.    Inflation,
however, continued with a rising trend.   It thus became evident that the
economy would not be able to function vith such high levels of inflation.
Individuals and firms were unable to plan beyond the very ahort term. As a
consequence,  investment and production were significantly affected.   The
Government recognized that price stabilization had to take place quickly; a
slow  reduction of inflation vould be very difficult to manage and would
subject the economy to a long period of unstable prices and reduced
economic activity.   Thus,  price stability became a sine qua non for a
sustainable recovery.
B. The 1985 Adjustment Program
In June 1985 the Government introduced the "Plan Austral'
economic program.   This combined conventional policies to impact demand
with instruments to neutralize the undesired distributive effects of the
abrupt fall in inflation.  As regards demand control, the objective was to
reduce the public sector deficit from 12% of GDP in the first half of 1985
to 2.5% of GDP in the second half of the year.  Specific actions included:
(a) increasing the real public sector prices and tariffs; (b) an 18%
increase in the rate of exchange, along with an equivalent increase in
export taxes; (c) a temporary 10% surcharge on imports; (d) the submis3son
to Congress for approval of new legislation on direct taxes, including a
"forced loan* to the Governzent from both individuals and firms; and (e)
the limitation of public expenditure, although massive unemployment and
cuts in social programs were avoided.
The cornerstone of the stabilization policy was a temporary
freeze on prices and wages. An immediate and major reduction in the growth
rate of prices was tne initial stdp in halting the momentum of inflation,
through a reduction in inflationary inertia.  In the longer term, reduced
inflationary expectations would increase the demand for finAncial assets,
thereby easing monetary pressures.  To give credibility to this approach,
the Government announced that from July 1985 onwards the public sector
deficit would only be financed from external sources. Finally, a new
currency, the Austral, was introduced, vith an Austral equivalent to
USS1 .25.
The Argentine people supported the economic program strongly and
the economy reacted vigorously. The most dramatic success was probably the
sharp fall in the monthly inflation rate from 30.1% in June 1985 to 6.2% in
July, 3.1% in August, and 2% in September; the rate varied between 3% and
4% between October and Fobruary 1986. In March 1986 the inflation rate was
slightly higher at about 4% per month, reflecting the gradual elimination
of the price froose.   The performance of the non-financial public sector
also improved considerably; even when the efforts to cut costs did not
produce immediate results, the rapid increase in receipts brought about a
matching fall of 5 to 6 percentage points in the deficit as a proportion of
GDP in the last two quarters of 1985.  The high degre& of public confidence



- 29-                                   Annex D]
Page 3 of 9
in tne econom:c program and tne Governments  prom-,se not to expand aosestic
credit tO finance  the public sector deficit  led  to an  -ncrease -i  tne
demane   for  financial   assets.       Real   rates  of  interest  increased
substantially and the subsequent remonetization of the economy helped to
lower the rate of inflation.   The external  sector was affected  by the
unfavorable price trends in international markets for the agricultural
products exported by Argentina.   Even so, the balance of payments deficit
on current account was cut by more than half, from almost US$2,400 million
in 1984 to slightly over USSI,000 million in 1985 as a result of an import
compression. Growth, however, was affected, dropping by 4.8% in real
terms.
C. Recent Adjustment Efforts
An inflationary trend became apparent from July 1986 onwaras.  It
led the consumer price index to rise by t.85 during August and was higher
than tne average rate of increase recorded throu6n ftarcn 1986 (4%). A
number of factors contributed to the revival of inflation.   Some of these
had been present since the start of the Plan Austral, as was the case of
foodstuff  supplies.    The  elimination  of  the  inflation  tax  raised  the
purchasing  power  of  consumers,  especially  in  low-income  sectors.    The
growth of demand helped restore economic activity but also put pressure on
prices, since the supply of foodstuffs did not increase in parallel.   An
example of this phenomenon was meat, where prices rose much more than the
average consumer price increase as a result of the gap between supply and
demand.
To these difficulties must be added certain problems with the
policy of price deregulation launched in April 1986.   The mechanism of
administered prices was designed to adjust prices, wage., tariffs, and the
exchange rate in such a way as to keep inflation at l0Y monthly levels
without bringing about a recession.    It was  also  supposed  to  provide
suff4cient flexibility to allow relative price movements.  In this context,
the rate of inflation came to depend very largely on the results of wage
negotiations. The available data indicates that wage adjustments in many
cases  exceeded  those  authorized  and  that  many  labor  unions  achieved
agreements outside the authorized wage bands.   These increases stimulated
demand  and  helped  fuel  inflation.    The  inflationary  trends  were  also
strengtnened by seasonal increases in the price of meat and of some
services (health and tourism).
Monetary policy, which was appropriate and succesaful from the
early stages of the Plan Austral up to July 1986, became lax as a result of
the increase in international reserves and the Central Bank's rediscount
policy.   The expansion of the money supply above the target level also
reflected the difficulty of implementing an active monetary policy in the
context  of  an  unbalanced  productive  and  financial  environment.    This
forced tne Government to continue adopting regulatory measures.   A series
of measures were introduced in September to control administered prices,
public service tariffs, the exchange rate, wages, and the growth of the
money supply.   As a result, monthly price increases decelerated to 4.7% by
year-end. Growth, on the other hand, expanded vigorously, by about 5.5% in
real terms for the year.



- 30 -
AnnexIII
Page 4 of 9
:n Januay ana February of 1987, nowever, inflationary pressures
reeindlei w:tn consumer prices rls:ng to about 7% per month.  Tovards the
end of February the GThvernment :ntroduced a package of econom:c measures
wnich-  -cluded  a wage  and  price  freeze  until  the  end  of  June  1987,
increased taxes and public sector pr:ces, ana also depreciated the Austral
by 7%.
D. Elements Necessary for a Viable Macroeconomic Framevork for Trade
Reform
Following the expected relaxation of the wage and price freeze,
by the end of June 1987, the Government intends to carry out a selective
deregulation of prices in activities where a certain level of competition
already eXists.  In other areas it will introduce procedures for collective
agreements under guidelines laid down by the uovernment.  Finally, in cases
where tnere are public service tariffs, imports and prices, it will replace
the  existing  price   and  wage   controls  with   collective   bargaining
agreements.  It also intends to maintain the real exchange rate at levels
wh:ch will ensure  the  competitiveness  of exports.   Meanwhile a proper
control of the money supply vill mace it possible to maintain positive but
moderate real interest rates.
Recent macroeconomic trends indicate that Argentina's economy
will continue to recover.   The achievements of the stabilization program
will  be  consolidated  through  the  measures  adopted  in  August  1986.
Moreover, the Government intends to implement the medium-term policies
required to promote sustained economic growth.
E. A Viable Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framevork
To put Argentina back on the path of sustained economic growth
within a framework of stability we must advance on several complementary
fronts.  In the very short term, the country faces a difficult financial
situat;on, which is substantially exacerbated by the size of our external
debt (for whicn the State is nov aimost entirely responsible).  The present
ionst:tutional jovernment is not in a position to act as an entrepreneur/
producer State, or to be the provider of massive subsidies as in the past.
It is therefore necessary to redefine its functions in the context of a
strategy for economic growth in which private inveatment must play a
fundamental role.
This process of functional redefin.ition must include the reform
of state enterprises.  The initial step of promoting transfers of public
assets to the private sector is guided by two basic principles: first,
ensuring  that  these  transfers  do  not  entail  the  privatization  of
monopolies,  but  instead  involve  the  progressive  deregulation  of  the
relevant  activities,  in  order  to  increase  competition  and  improve
effic:ency; and second, ensuring that funds generated by transferring
public  sector assets  to  the private  sector are  used  to promote nowv
high-priority productive activities.   The next  step along the path of
reform wi 11 involve those enterprises that are to remain under state
control; it will be designed to provide greater flexibility in terms of
both their management and their financial, labor and marketing policies.
These reforms are dictated not only by the need to increase efficiency but



-31-                               Annzex 
Page 5 of 9
tn-*e  =ore  fundamental  need  t:  redefine  tne  State's f9anctioas  a..:
res3ons  :'_t:es as part of an approacn t.nat assigns to private :nves:e-:
tne pr:i:nial role :_ attasning longer-term aevelo=ment.
The  impact   of  external  debt  service  paymerts  on  publ ^
finances has reduced current government savings, and has brought about a
sharp fall in the level of public investment since 1981.  This reduct:on
has  had  three  direct  consequences:  (a)  lengthening  the  execution  of
projects  already  begun;   (b)  suspension  of  nev  projects;   and  (c)
restrictions on the maintenance and replacement of existing works and
equipment.  As a result, decisions have been taken on a case-by-case basis
to ensure the operation of existing infrastructure, to continue projects in
execution with the highest rates of return, and to include only those
projects which (as in the cases of gas and telecommunications) were of
central importance to successful structural reform.   There is currently a
portfolio of productive public sector infrastructure projects for which the
rate of return is guaranteed. In the social area, the appraisal process is
under way. In any event, potential investment resources for the next three
years are for the most part already committed in projects now in executior.
The policy of restoring the level of public expenditure must be
seen in conjunction with the macroeconomic need to reduce the overall
public sector deficit.  The two are only compatible if structural reforms
are undertaken that enable additional savings  to be generated.   In the
context of reforming the State, privatization is a means for incorporating
private  savings  in  the  financing  of  additions   to  public  service
infrastructures.   Meanwhile, external financing will enable  the public
enterprises to concentrate their attention on major works in which, because
of their size, private investment plays a complementary role.
The Government is reconsidering the public investment program and
its financing in the light of these criteria, and the results vill be
announced in the early months  of 1987.   We also intend  to review the
proposed 1988 and 1989 public inveatment programs.  In this connection, we
are now preparing a multi-annual public investment and financing plan,
which we will present to the Bank.
The restoration of the investment climate is a key factor in the
transition  of  Argentina's  economy  to  sustained  medium-term  growth.
For the private sector, the decision to invest appears to depend on a set
of factors that impact on the sector's expectations.  From the Government's.
standpoiat, sound and stable policies are crucial for restoring the
confidence of economic agents.   Nevertheless, progress in this direction
cannot guarantee the disappearance of unfavorable expectations generated by
years  of  persistent  economic  stagnation.    This  situation  underlines
the importance of public investment and ita role in launching the growth
process. Private and public investment should therefore be seen as having
complementary roles.
Technology   plays  a   significant  role   in   determining  the
orientation of the guidelines governing investment.   In a changing world,
economies rith aspirations toward growth cannot afford to fall behind in
the utilization of new sources of -productivity represented by modern
agricultural and industrial technologies.  From this standpoint, the State



-32 -
Anex III
Page 6 of 9
-s-  -'s.y a ca:aly-:z rolt :-  :.te select-ve promt:on sf aseas of 3avanced
-e^-.-. _^ .  The a:  w: b be to :m=rove  the overall :roduc::v:ty  of the
we.: le a: t.e same time tapping tne patent-al of Argent-na s trained
-.a- resources.  This a proacn becomes al' tne more -mportant e-f one opts
*^r  a  development  strategy  that  opens  the  economy  to  internat:onal
co mpe:::::n.   Competit:on today is based either on h:gh technology or on
L.ow wages.  Argentina cannot compete in terms of low wages--partly because
tr-.s ras not been its historical exrerience, and partly because to attempt
sucn a strategy would endanger the social cohesion which must underlie
tne effzr- to secure growth.   :f investment is to recover,  however,  the
S-ase must do more than provide impetus to productive accumulation In the
private sector; it must also define a growth strategy that guarantees
adequate  returns.    In  this  sense,  opening  up  tne  economy  must  be
established as the cornerstone of growth.   Provision must also be made for
the deveLopment of a marKet for long-term capital as a source of fInanciag
fo- tne pr:vate sector.
These principles are designed to bring about a substantial change
tne framework within which the private sector operates.  ?rivatization,
for wv:-.. a draft law nas already been prepared, the deregulation alreacy
begun :;- the area of foreign trade, and the appeal, also in the process of
p:)le3en:ation, for domestic and foreign capital through financial sector
refor=, are all policies introduced with the aim of stimulating private
investment.
The Government has designed a strategy to broaden and tighten the
'inks betveen Argentina and the world economy.  In recent years Argentina
experienced an attempt to open the economy in ways that took incentives
away from local production; the result was a crisis that seriously damaged
our productive apparatus.   The course now chosen, in the form of export
promti. C-, is  not  only  designed  to  correct  previous  errors,  but  also
responds to the severity of the current external constraints.
Argentina's export effort must extend to both the agricultural
anz t.e :ndustrial sectors.   The  massive  export subs3dies  provided  by
devalopec countries represent a heavy burden for Argentina's economy in
terms of t.Oe-r impact on prices -n the cereals and meat marKets.   Despite
tn.ese  c-stacles,  an  increase  in  exports  of  agricultural  goods  is  an
essen-:a_ aspect of our long-term economic policy, and must be accompanied
- tr.e profound transformation that will result from the open.ng of our
-anufact:ring production to the external market.  Success in this area will
en:tai. an __provement in Argentina's industrial competitiveness, vhich will
aLso affect goods produced for the domestic market.  It Will also open up
tn.e po ss:1 lity of increasing imports that will enhance the productivity of
our  pro__ctive  apparatus  and  meet  its  growth-related  demands.    Tne
corol'ary  to  an  appropriate  strategy  of  opening  up  the  economy  must
tnerefore  be an in-depth  restructuring  of Argentina's  entire production
=act.znerv.  A range of incentives of unprecedented scope has already been
-trobuced t^ this end.  Among these are actlv4ties involvin. international
negot:at:i-ca  and cooperation and integration agreeMents such as those made
witn E-r:ud_, wcich entail an expansion in Argentina's trade.
A restructu.ing of the market for short- and long-term capital is
another :rior-.ty component of our growth strategy.   The tightness of the
snort-term  capital  marcet  is  making  the  fight  against  inflation  more



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 7 of 9
-,ff: lt   since  tne  .rt^cems  Of  :_anc:n.6  p>cIIZ  sec:zCr    :aar.ces
aecessitate an exce-:::ona__y r:gorous anc 3oc:ai;y contert:Ous _aac_a_
aus:er:-y jolicy.       lae .8Cx of a long-term capita  MarKet 3erious.y nampers
:-vestment opportu::tes  :or tne private sector.   A Key e_ement _n tr.is
effort is tne reform of tne  -,nanciai system. a tasc wnicn has a2.reaay
begun and must cont:nue.
While tne reform of the financial system takes piace, it must be
understood that deteuaination to maxe structural changes ana awareness of
the need for a more efficient economy will not suffice to bring about
sustained growth or to satisfy repressed demands unless resources are
available for accumulation.   Therefore  the  present  pattern of external
flows, which represents one of the major constraints on the economy, must
be reversed and replaced by a greater availability of domestic financing
and external investment while we simultaneously eliminate the causes of the
present critical situation.
Along with the June 1985 prices and wages freeze, the Government
:mplemented incomes policies that introduced a progressive flexibility into
the initial controls.  At the present t:me, three categories of goods and
services can be distingu:shed, according to the price policias applied to
them, namely: a sector where maximum prices are adjusted every 45 days and
which includes the main staple family consumpt-on items (except for greens,
fruit,   vegetables  and  meat):   these  prices   are   being  applied  in
supermarkets; a sector where prices are neither controlled nor scheduled,
covering personal services,  fresh  foodstuffs  and  farm  products;  and a
sector with scheduled monthly price increases, wh:ch includes industrial
prices  that are  traditionally  determined  on  the  basis  of cost.   The
Secretariat of Internal Trade authorizes increases that exceea maximum or
scheduled prices in lign: of claims by firms on a case-by-cass  basis.   In
conjunction   with   monetary   policy,   this   mechanism   has   functioned
efficiently, and has reduced inflation since August 1986 without giving
rise to either supply problems or floods of claims.   In an economy wnere
indexation  has  been  an  establisnea  feature,  administered  prices  have
facilitated  flexible  and  orderly   regulation  and  have  uot  enta.lea
impositions by the authorities or losses in terms of artificial prices and
wages.   The (Government's view  is  that  inflation  will  be progressively
reduced, insofar as a deliberate policy of ensuring an abundance of
foodstuffs will tend to push the price index downwards in the context of a
tight  monetary  policy.    Basically,  the  policy  of  administered  prices
results from the need to provide reference prices in the absence of an
adequate degree of integraton to the world economy.   In an open economy
these reference prices are supplied through international trade.   Their
absence gives rise to wage and price agreements by firms seeking regional
advantages  which  contributes   to  the  overall  inflationary  pressure.
Experience shows that the mere application of monetary controls does not
halt the process, but rather generates a recession and expectations that
the policy will not be continued.
The Government is aware of the relative inefficiency of the
system of administered prices and of the need to apply them with
flexibility.  In practice, however, these prices can only be eliminated in
an open economy in which objective reference prices are providea from
abroad. Proposals for self-monitoring agreements by firms are currently at



- 34 -
Annex I1
Page 8 of 9
tne inita  discussion stage.  :hese are globa. agreements and t'.:lude the
e!i=1nation of quantcia::ve res;:_z::ons on Lmports and the accep:ance of
customs carif  leveis similar tc  those currently existing,  as a means of
automacic regulation.
F. Trade Politv Reforms
.he  Government's  trade  policy  reforms  fall  into  four  main
categories:  (a) exchange  race  policy;  (b) export  incentives;  (c) trade
regime ra:ionalization; and (d) administrative procedures.
In  connection   with   exchange   rate   policy,   the   crawling
peg arrangement for the Argentine Austral has already resulted in a real
depreciation.  Furthemore, the Government depreciated the Austral by 7Z at
the end of February and has committed itself to a further depreciation of
2% per month durlng May and June. Following that, the Government intends to
review  periodically  the  level  of  the  real  exchange  rate,  taking  into
account, inter alia, the differential between international and domestic
inflation and export performance, to ensure its adequacy.
The reforms of export  incentives  cover several areas.   First,
the Government has introduced two duty-free temporary admission regimes,
eliminated  export  taxes  on  most  manufacturing  exports,  introduced  a
mechanism  to  reimburse  indirect  taxes  on  exports,  and  drastically
simplified procedures in both temporary admission regimes.   Second, both
temporary  admission  regimes   have   been   made  fully  and  adequately
operational. Based on performance, additional measures will be introduced
if needed to further simplify export procedures.  Third, the list of inputs
for exports that can be imported automatically under the standard Temporary
Admission Regime has been expanded substantially. Fourth, the specific
temporary program of direct stimulus to industrial export growth presently
in use will be replaced by a permanent system of refund of indirect taxes
to exporters.   However,  existing agreements  under this program will be
maintained in force until their final term of expiration. The Government
will also undertake a study on interest rates applicable to export credit
programs.   The Government  intends  to  address  this  issue  of additional
reforms through an Export Promotion Project for which it has requested Bank
support.
In  connection  with   trade   restrictions,   the  Government  is
taking action in several fields.  First, most of the system of quantitative
restric:ions will be eliminated over a three-year period.   At the end of
this  period,  tariff  positions  equivalent  to  about  80%  the  value  of
industrial production are envisaged to be moved to the automatic list.
Simultaneously,   in   some   industrial   subsectors   where   industrial
restructuring  is  required,   i.e.  paper,  steel,  chemical  and  textile
products, it is the intention of the Government to undertake an industrial
restructuring program for which financing has been requested to the Bank.
Second, it is the Government's policy to replace QRs. with temporary
additional  tariff  protection.       Finally,   the  Government  vould  also
undertake, under the PSKTAL, a study which would focus on introducing
competition in government procurement.
As regards administrative procedures, several accions have been
taken that should assist the  export development effort.   First, prior
presentation and documentation of DJNI import tariff requests has been



-35-                                 AnnexII
Page 9 of 9
elim..nated.   Second,  for those tariff positions that remain -in the prior
consultation 1 st, a 5-day deadline has been established for consultations
with the producers' associations (and a maximum of L5 days for the whole
process of consultations with the associations and SICE).   New procedures
for the associations' participation have been developed; these reduce the
scope of the associations'  involvement.   Tariff positions included in the
prior consultation list for which imports are authorized are being excluded
from the  consultation  process  with  the  assoc4ations  and moved  to  the
automatic  list.    Third,  the  one-stop  administrative  window  is  being
extended to all 49 custom offices and the number of participating agencies
reduced  significantly.  The  Government  will  continuously  review  the
above-mentioned actions and mechanisms to ensure their adequate and
efficient operation.
The Government would undertake an Action Program for the second
phase of trade policy reform.   The Government intends to move the economy
towards international competitiveness and relative prices and rationalize
the tariff structure.  It is the Government's Intention to continue opening
up imports as export performance improves.   The elimination of QRs would
continue gradually, with most tariff positions moved out of QRs over a
three-year period, to achieve the Government's final objective in an
efficient,  transparent  and  cont'nous  way.    The  Government  will  also
strengthen its export promotion objectives.   It plans to facilitate the
availability of export financing in the capital market.
The Government has put together an ambitious program of policy
reforms designed to have a lasting impact on the economic structure of
Argentina.  The Government believes that this export-oriented development
strategy will yield positive results.
I should like to stress that while this statement has focused
on economic adjustment and trade policy, continued emphasis would be placed
on socioeconomic programs to sustain growth, employment generation and
poverty alleviation.   Development in these areas that is compatible with
the adjustment described in this letter remains our medium-term goal.
In view of the measures being taken, the Argentine Government
would appreciate your favorable consideration of its request for a Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Loan.   We look forward to a continuing
exchange of ideas with the Bank and to the opportunity to discuss from time
to time the progress made in implementing these reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Juan Vital Sourrouille
Minister of Economy



- 36 -
Annex IV
Annex IV: Policy Matrix: Ln. 281 5-AR                           Page I of 5
AXENTN.:  gltNAR  O           S AN  Y F= ON OF EAI  ?CL S
Before Semd Trm':ne Releae
PoLicy Objectives              C2,ais Already Lncrordjed                             (late 1987)
I. MAICElNC                 (1.a)  Policy Fra    t                          (I.a)  Policy Framork
To .pponr an                                                                0  Safaccory aseeent of 1966
auwcvard-lc±kiig                                                               perfcrum  and 1987 plm  ta
dewelp       screrg                                                            fiscal, rcah,   rare, t
and inicarp che                                                                p3bliz in'snt ad excamal
fi c phae of                                                                   b rrbsing pol±di.
ref ors; iprow
resacrc   e; red        (I.b) External       el rdIevc4rea              (l.b) Exernal vCC±        ea
inflgare; re&Ji
crwdog cuc ef c0e       °     Adopcic  ao  crailIg  e  echii  rare          0 ReviA  &ie         of
finaial markesc;              deiL.aciax8; incrodactam  of a                        rcaf cte rael
iase &,e                  *     dwi±sa co procecc exprcera fro                 eAin  race bed ax
availI .licy cf              exuBhm   rare loss; iovvem   cf                 auer  exrc perforc.
c       cc dhe prime           dhe effeciwve exu     rare co
secror ac  re                 erters     a resulc of reimminic
crci1w ]. rra-; £4            of idirec  cta, imorr dirisa ax
bid 1    ide   in             iacs ad eli  narica af erc  c
aarnc polir.                  an maf-r-Ad  aid agroindserial
gwdis.
IL T1RACE DE                  (2) Te*-ora.y Ad.swiai Reghz  (TAR)             (2) T ncrzy Admuianx Ret    (TAR)
Supporc di firc         (2.1)  Scarird TAR                              (2.1)  Scaird ad  SDA1  EAPRs
-e  cf che  jor
reform  in che            (i)  Covra   and Aut.xc-ciey          (') Cc¶mra  and Auc-rdcny
eternal secror co
increase dtie               0 An * azrric TMR sMuc  h.m  ben                0  Asuce cperacia  of the
ocpec.itjvee  and             intoducd.  le d    ac t ruire a                  scmidrd and apspLal TR sysc
profi cahilHcy of              m.iam2i&. exrc  cmcract.  Ic                   co   eu  cthe atrric imporC af
exporcs durmh                  rWuires cie eporter co b  resiscered            irLcs.
ra±aazarizai cf                in locs both aa  imprcer and
che procec-in                 exporter.  Ircs axer che  ymcy
sysc, reform  co iry-frep. Lid  dIii sys ce,
a*   corary           rucs ceo impore                   co prodku
adbrsiss reg   for            exprts (A) am approd
iported inpics,                       le-ally if the wrrmpiadIng
moving coiard fre-             cariff pcs.ic±    are inC1uP in Cde
crad  scamm for               aitm± icrt  lstc.  6,6C0 cariff
exrp   inCtr.i ,              pciticra he w    Inclued in the
.siplificacim of              a.,crr inrt lst.
iporc an exrc
FlI^S4rL2rj   af ecp     (U) In&xc   Wra
ct aa fa-nw
gJ, £4d ali:a-             0 ?kx.fIcnelco cf che TAR co permic:
ti  cf f  m-tariff            (i) crfer af che             irted
harriers co tr                tno  ic; aid (U) &.ia wok a Wind
to dtird parti be perfoemd an
apcsrarily imported Irpics.



-37 -                                        Anne lV
Page 2 of 5
lef ore Std Tz           Relen
Policy Objer1                   Qws Ary Lncrodim                                    (1-A  1967)
(ii) Revlwc cf Stocks
o  L sC1  prod.urs u     pty ±irp
ca_ m  teir  rpus  and bw
8c lro  aporten cmnno
rplenish thir  invnorie of
i prcd iues an a  i         e
bkis.
(iv)  AdiC raie  P!mdir
o  PFcsing tim  for imprc p.rmcs
hm bow re1zmd frrm wo mmedS to
oa-ch.r   wA  in =S  cs.
-      o  Bot  c   original   t    c=
and dadlir  easim  Cto the        -
m  have bo  exdd fram 10 to
360 defs.
o The prva.zr   used too  I    a fe
fn   alU DI  applicalnt ha b
adjitucad to coal1  it d6sing bids
ha=.  iueamd of       h-- a wmd
co pay by ce ±r d of =h.
o  Ttm leng  af the i'prt
(a=) qpplioaci  form for cp y
adsiain ±nprc permits hm bm
Qcu  da   Crr  fiv  Co chre pap.
o  fle fcm thac hi  co be f -iU    c   to
obvain che ar±ficdim  cf Cho
irut-cucp     effc          h    b
(2.b) FUlly A.zewi±e Soecial Te ry
o  The .pedal rTAR s'tjc   wich.is fully
M_   Mex, Adty-frm  mid cw= all
itp= tariff pruici= ±rlu12gn
cqpital , hs bm  d
7Lt r*qu±r   a MtlizAl eqrC
acgz     mid a   t   -   to I{ma
exrt  oer tt  lUfe cf t        w



- 38 -                                        Anmex IV
Page 3 of 5
Erfore dcod TraLr2ne ielele
polcy Objectives                Quares Aiready Lncrod-i (ilae i%97)
(2.c)  AvAiab Ii irt of Fore±l txcnarue
o  Central Wnk reuiac±on  a,r   Mriz±
a>ucttr  forelpn exhne allocac.D
for capital gtxus iprcs under te
TAR regis. Foreip exnwge
alitation for ocrur inp..m is
autamticc
o  BION-bacad (dollar-de namr
goverrnmc tzrzts) inter-mr
traia.tcm inrerntneiarte by bin*.s
ham bo  le±tiz'd; and    ersl
accepacs lntrodm.
(3)  Sinlificarion of IwLi and Export           (3) Siml.±ficatic of Trc and
Pro~a                                          Ex-rr Prote
o   - al-estop  s.ri3atrative  ir4ndi           o Exten  te ca- -stop wirxc  to all
operi   ithi reprsenr.ativw af six              astars offic   and prenwc
a g~±  (?*at, Fisheries, !tlitary               legialari   to Congr, if
Itnries, Lfme, Aludnum, Ar                     rwaary,  to exclude
Hbrs   and Rac Horee).  &cprt                   .dch are ^  facro no lorgr
shi izlnt whidc are rtc reiLatad to             participits in su:Lh apprwal
Cte awgas do mDt requ±r  pior                   process.
auThorizariza    any more.
o  Detailed popenrk require  for lport
an  eprt procedre   alm"i.
u  Special   re           allow imorrs co
take their goa  our of  uaat  in 46
hous attar Errival of the goods.
o  Iniruniton of a  rr     at ustae
intnds, to furtiz       simplify  4mrc
p:   es, 1rmm  revenue
coLlectim, provie  rellable Iort
data, and detect aier-invoii.
(4)  Exprt T-
° Mlmi 4,Lirtn tf nutv Kowrr tw mt
o ELi~nat±~i tc uwinrl. .eruction
of gricultuwal eqrt  t       to 70% of
tder ?ty 1985 level.  diuctin of
exprr tme an hydrocab            to ICV.
Introdtion of an indirect tax
reimrunr eck   an eMrrS.



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 5
Before Second :arne Release
Policy Obec                        nge  Already Introduc                               (Lace i%97)
(5) Subsidi                                      (5)  S.ibidies
0  N  further s.bidies under the
SpecinL Export Progra.  For firs
which currenrly h     an exorr
tract, the subsidy ele== Woud be
eliminated whei ttu cmract expire.
(6) Raticr4Aization of the Protection            (6)  Rationa.Uation of the Protection
Mytm                                            Syste
o  E±imnar1m   of requiremem of prior            0  Transfer of a blok of 700 tariff
nr.arini for 7,147 tariff                       positions, atuivaleni at l]eas
poitims, eqtudwLaJ      to 48.5 of the           10% of the 1985 value of
value of production.                             irSstrial pr.uctin to the
.Owltic icporr list. For those
psitiau  for which trorary
aditional tariff protectim is
reauired, the Govencrn  w.ld
incree import tariffs up to a
maxium of 1lO% of the c.i.f.
value of isports and wid
etablish a tariff b        with a
40% nwxi  andg 10: mxdmm to be
addevid graually over a
three-year period. At least 85%
of the unxr of tariff pcsitiOm
.zld be subject to a miudum
izport tariff rate rot exadin
75Z. The Goverrme    wld  also
Mintain aC   rane of
flexdbility with resa       to the
dmsx:m tariff in the trid, since
it has difficults in ass ing
the tariff potectia  reuired-
lhlu, for a redIu       sru.    of
tariff positicm, the Govemnnt
.ou.A  introduc a tmrary
murdarg. A chrmg              to reac
the tariff bmd woul4 be agred
on. The abo,-       i       700
tariff positins wld also be
ed to the azr.OMIc   list in
the TAL



-40-                                    Annex IV
Page 5 of 5
Before Secmd Trzanoe Releme
Pol-cy Objecc:e                 Chan    Aeadv Lnnoed                                 (lart L987)
o  Cx enc _. che ~t.scer cf Ecaww
PClfcY Scae   cc an Action Pro
on che basis of  nAisrcr-al prodicrion
%u  for the secrd&-phae of trade
pcl4cy reform. Th-s would sec che
bais fcr a secmd Trade Policy Loan,
cosiscenc vich:  (a) che eliml tim
cf csc iort noncariff  recricr±ors
over a chree-fear period: aid (b)
temrary cariff prcceczion reuired
a-d che phasig cuc of sudi procecria
over a chree-year period.
o  5-day  eadl-ns ecabi.shed fcr
op=i.rs of the prod.Lers'
-.La-r    wich respecc r-o cariff
poiticons n prcr consultation list,
aid incrod.rccn of proces&r  relaced
cc: (a) che parcicipacicn of che
proe ' associaricrs in che prior
oulcaciau ; (b) a maxim= 15-dy
.irm period for the u*ole process of
rul-aricn; aid (c) el:.nrat    of
che cariff pneicicas form the prior
csaur.1rcim lisc and ceir tr 1 fer
co che aioms   llcJNI lsc once
4cros in those car_ff psir-ion are
approed. Goyernnzm ccrsu noc
cc d,a.  chese rpi pronciirm wdchcut
Bark agreemenc or fail co enfarce such
promaiir.
o Tariff posicin suere chere are my
differenc proeic-s included under one
car-egory hav  tn disaggreged to
provide flexihilicy in rving tariff
psiticras to auczacic DNIs.
o  Pendiig caes cf car.ff adjustencs
hav been decided.
c Trad  wlch Brazil. has be   fread on a
larg na r cf capical    d  a-  n
aLl L-ucs for exports.



- 41 -
Amnex V
Annex V: Letter of Development Policy: Ln. 2996-AR     Page I of 8
L--7R CF LIVEOr   =    P>XCAT _::
Buenos Aires
September 22, 3a88
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington. D.C.. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.       In early August. the Argentine Government announced an economic
program designed to reduce inflation and thereby stimulate growth.
Embracing both stabilization objectives and medium-term goals, the program
is intended to curb inflation as well as to help reverse the secular
deterioration in saving and investment that has occurred during the 1980s.
Even though investment rates have improved in the last two years, the
economy still has not been able to recover from the debt crisis and
macroeconomic instability of the early 1980s. The substantial reversal in
flows of net external resources after 1982 has implied a difficult and
prolonged adjustment that must lead to a process of sustained economic
growth.
2.       The Government's short-term measures constitute a strong program
of action that can lead the country away from endemic inflation and towards
a more promising future. The short-term fiscal objective is to limit the
public sector's financing needs as much as possible to amounts that can be
borrowed from abroad, so that total financing is consistent with the
monetary policy designed for stabilization. In order to place the economy
on this development path, short-term measures are being complemented by
structural reforms. In this respect, the Government is implementing an
extensive reform program that leads to the integration of the Argentine
economy with the rest of the world, the modernization of the State and to a
general deregulation of markets.   With these objectives, the Government is
moving in the direction of eliminating quantitative restrictions to
imports, reforming the industrial promotion incentives and reforming the
financial markets to improve the efficiency of private sector activity.
Finally, we are committed to improving the efficiency of the public
sector's own operations, particularly in public enterprises.   Both the
short-term actions and the structural reforms constitute necessary elements
to secure sustained growth and macroeconomic stability of the Argentine
economy.
Macroeconomic Goals
3.       Early experience with the measures announced in August is
encouraging. We expect that the rate of inflation will decrease
substantially in coming months. We believe, however, that sustained
progress toward our goals of permanently reduced inflation, reduced real
interest rates, improved efficiency and increased investment will require
additional measures as outlined here.



-42 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 8
4        Achievjng our near-term f:sca.. objective _ ^zLies that t-e
consolizdae public sector deflcit :nclu_-ng t,e Cent:al Bank's quas _-fscal
deficit will have to be reduced from 4.5 percent of GCP in 1988 to a
max-nu= of 2.4 percent in 1989.  Fisca_ moderation is essential to atta_n
our goals of a unified, market determined exchange rates by the end of
1989 .
5.       Reducing the combined public sector deficit on a cash basis to
2.4 percent of GDP will require a subscantial adjustment in the
nonfinancial public sector because the quasi-fiscal deficit is determined
largely by movements in external and internal interest rates, and is
therefore basically outside the direct reach of policy instruments.  As
external interest rates have risen during 1988 and the Central Bank will
absorb the new external debt of the public sector in 1988-89, the quasi-
fiscal deficit will increase from 0.3 percent of GDP to 1.4 percent of GDP.
This means that the non-financial public sector deficit will have to shrink
by more than 3 percentage points of GDP--from 4.3 percent to 1 percent--to
reach the objective of 2.4 percent of GDP.
6.       To accomplish this goal, the Government intends to improve tax
administration and collection as well as introduce a new tax reform aimed
at broadening the tax base and improving its horizontal and vertical
equity. This additional fiscal effort will yield gross additional public
sector revenues equivalent to about 1.5 percent of GDP in 1989, of which,
about 0.6 percent would be available to the Treasury after revenue sharing
with the provinces. An additional 0.6 percent of GDP deficit reduction
will be achieved through specific expenditure cuts, equivalent to about
USS500 million, by national administration and public enterprises.  These
measures will reduce pressure on domestic financial markets and thus
contribute to a reduction in real interest rates which in turn will reduce
the quasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank.
7.       The combined overall public sector defic't of 2.4 percent of GDP
for 1989 is expected to be financed by the proceeds of public sector
external borrowing equivalent to 1.4 percent of CDP.  Given the expected
remonetization of the economy in 1989, the projected level of domestic
financing (not exceeding 1 percent of GDP) is consistent with the
Government's near-term stabilization target of monthly inflation of less
than 5 percent. It is also consistent with the objective of avoiding any
further crowding out of the private sector.  Nonetheless, prudent conduct
of monetary policy is of fundamental importance for the success of the
plan.
8.       In spite of relatively favorable agricultural export prices and
vigorous growth of both traditional and industrial exports expected to
amount USS10. billion in 1989, we project a modest increase in Argentina's
current account deficit from US$2.4 billion in 1988 to US$2.6 billion in
1989. Substantial improvements in the country's trade balance of
US$750 million in 1989--a 27 percent increase over 1988--are more than
offset by increases of USS1 billion in interest payments mainly due to
increased interest rates on foreign debt.
9.       The Government has begun discussions with its external creditors
and intends to have a complete external financing plan for 1988 and 1989 in
place by the end of this year.



-43 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 8
Publi- Sector Re-orn
10.      wisequilibria in public finances hnave been a contirnung feature or
recent Argentine history.  In 1975. the deficit reached 15.5 percent of GZP
and remained between 10 and 15 percent for much of the remainder of the
decade. .oreign borrowing, especially after 1979, financed most of these
deficits. The 1982 crisis triggered an interruption in credit flows and
caused a significant deterioration of public finance: sharp real
devaluations and high international interest rates increased the domestic
resources required to meet external interest payments. In 1983, just
before the present Government took office, the fiscal deficit was the
highest registered in the last 30 years, 16.1 percent of GDP.
11.      The Government has been addressing the fiscal problem through
across-the-board expenditure restraint, attempts to improve management of
the public sector and concerted efforts in the four areas affecting the
deficit: central government, relations with the provinces, public
enterprises, and social security. The Government began tax reform efforts
in 1985 and an additional package was passed in January 1988. Expenditure
measures have affected public sector wages and public investment. To
reduce the deficit of the public enterprises measures have been taken
towards increasing tariffs, expenditure control, demonopolization and
deregulation of selected public enterprise activities, together with the
start of a program of privatization of public sector enterprises. The
Government will not make funds available to the provinces beyond these
foreseen in the co-participation law, nor with the Central Bank finance the
provinces through extension of rediscounts to provincial banks. Transfer
to public enterprises will be confined to the funds already earmarked for
them. Similarly, the Social Security System will have no recourse to
general Treasury revenues.
Federal Government
12.      In order to facilitate an early agreement on priorities, the
Government will submit the 1989 budget to Congress before December 31,
1988.
13.      The Government regards restoration of its revenue base as one of
the most urgent tasks it faces. Action will be taken both to reduce
evasion and improve collection under the existing structure, to reduce
leakage under the industrial promotion system and to broaden the tax base,
while reducing distortions implicit in the present tax system and in the
current system of industrial incentives. To these ends the Government
will:
- Immediately move to strengthen the tax administration and audit
capabilities of the DGI.
- Develop by December 31, 1988, a medium-term plan of action for
the further development of the DGI.
- Request Congressional approval of legislation which increases
penalties for tax evasion and which facilitates legal
prosecution of tax evaders.



- 44 -                            AnnexY
Page 4 of 8
-   .=rove the auditing capabilsties of both t-e DG: a..> the
Secre:ar-a: o: Industry to dete ine abuses unaer e-.e ex s::-
industrial promotion system so that appropriate penalties ca.
be imposed.
- Request passage of the Industrial Promotior, Law currently
before Congress.
14.      These administrative and legislative measures will be accompanied
by the development of proposals for tax reform to take effect next year, in
part to replace revenue lost with exchange rate unification. The
Government will begin immediately the study of a project of tax reform with
the objective of increasing total revenues and enhancing the efficiency of
tax system. The project will define ways to increase the tax base.
Particular attention will be devoted to a reform of the VAT and excise tax
system. The project will be completed by the end of 1988, and will be the
basis for legislation to be submitted to Congress by that date.
Implementation of the reform will be sought starting July 1, 1989.  The
design of the tax reform as well as ways of improving tax administration
will be elaborated by the Government in consultation with organizations
representing the private sector.
Public Enternrises
15.      The objectives of the Government's program continue to be
increasing the quality of services supplied through public enterprises,
while securing access to private resources to increase investment and
contributing to the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit.  To achieve
these objectives, the National Government has reorganized the regulatory
framevork and decision-making structure of the public enterprises sector to
clarify the financial relations of the sector to the National Government.
Sectoral policies have been placed under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works (MOSP), and budgetary and financial control of the
enterprises managed by the MOSP has been assumed by a holding agency of
public enterprises, the Public Enterprises Board (DEP).
16.      Increased accountability of public enterprises requires that they
operate in an predictable environment with respect to their tariff levels.
This is particularly important if the principles referred to above
restricting their access to Treasury finance are to become well-
established. Accordingly, at the end of the current policy on public
utility rates and fuel prices, the Government will undertake adjustments to
maintain prices in real terms.  The goal would be to prevent an erosion in
the real revenues of public utilities.  We consider that in the electric
power sector there is a need to improve working margins of federally owned
utilities.  It is also our intention to adjust relative prices of gas and
diesel (gas-oil) to encourage utilization of the former.
17.      We shall maintain our efforts to improve the financial planning
and management of public enterprises by the following means:
- The DEP will require all enterprises within its charge to
develop budgets and performance targets for 1989. The approved
budgets and plans will be published by December 31, 1988.



-45 -
Page 5 of 8
- The DE? wil.1 con-tnue its efforts to standardize ac_ounting and
information systems among enterprises, as well as iproving
long-tern plann.ng o:. investments and finances in a consistent
fashion.
18.      In order to improve operating efficiency and reduce working
capital needs of public enterprises, the Government will direct ii=ediate
attention to procurement and inventory control practices.  To this end, the
Government, through the Ministry of Public Works, will develop by
December 31, 1988, for enterprises reporting to it, guidelines to increase
the competitiveness and transparency of the enterprise procurement process,
guidelines in purchase programming and inventory control, and methods for
monitoring compliance by public enterprises with the guidelines.  These
measures will be complemented by continuing reforms of the 'Compre
Nacionall policies that apply to public sector procurement, with a view to
reducing cost and increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the
public enterprises and their suppliers.
19.      The Goverrment will give urgent attention to the restructuring of
Ferrocarriles Argentinos and the development of an action plan to divide
the current operation into specific lines of business (freight, inter-city
passenger and suburban passenger).  In addition, to ensure that oil
exploration activities are protected from continuing fiscal pressure and
are consistent with the Government's general policy of encouraging private
sector participation, the Executive will sign the Petroplan Decree so that
the program can start before the end of the year.
Financial Sector Policies
20.      The financial public sector in Argentina has traditionally been
characterized by the strong participation of the Central Bank in financial
intermediation; substantial recourse to the banking system as a source of
involuntary public sector deficit financing; and the existence of serious
inefficiencies in the operation of certain national and provincial public
banks.
21.      Central Bank participation in financial intermediation has taken
place both through overregulation of the sector and a substantial volume of
Central Bank lending through rediscounts.  To finance rediscounts and the
deficit of the nonfinancial public sector, the Central Bank has imposed
heavy reserve requirements and other forced investments on the financial
system's deposits. When reserve requirements and forced investments have
not been enough, the monetary base has been expanded. Moreover, losses on
the lending operations of several public banks--most prominently the
National Mortgage Bank (BHN), the National Development Bank (BANADE) and
certair. provincial banks--have eroded their financing base and these banks
have tnerefore become excessively dependent on Central Bank credit.
22.      In recent years these problems have resulted in large Central Bank
losses (the quasi-fiscal deficit referred to earlier), adversely affecting
interest rates and inflation.  Financial intermediaries, in turn, have
substantially reduced credit to the private sector and become inefficient.
They have to charge large spreads to cover high operating costs and losses
associated with reserve requirements and forced investments.



-46 -
Annex V
Page 6 of 8
23.      Part:cu Larly in the last t-wo years, the Government has taken
numerous measures to rationali-ze th.e financial public sector a.d to
strengthen t.e financial system.  These reforms include:  (i) a restrictive
policy on new Central Bank rediscounts (excluding rediscounts to BHN, the
net cash flow of Central Bank rediscounts has been negative during January-
August 1988); (ii) streamlined rediscount portfolio administration,
including greater transparency (the 1988 rediscount budget has been sent to
Congress together with the fiscal budget); (iii) a reduction in subsidies
associated with Central Bank rediscounts; (iv) liberalization of interest
rates; (v) improvement in regulations and supervision of financial
institutions; (vi) deposit insurance for all small-sized deposits;
(vii) liquidation of several insolvent intermediaries as well as
privatization of other whose administration had been taken over by the
Central Bank; and (viii) strong sanctions against overdrafts of the public
banks.
24.      The Government intends to continue its efforts by taking the
following measures:
-  Continuing the rationalization of Central Bank rediscounts,
including improved accounting, transparency, and a negative
cash flow;
- Gradually reducing reserve requirements and forced investments
to facilitate access by the private sector to financial
resources;
- Establishing a deposit insurance agency for the rehabilitation
or liquidation of ailing financial intermediaries;
- Continuing to improve supervision and transparency in the
financial system as well as firmly enforcing prudential
regulations (particularly on provisions for potential loan
losses);
- Restructuring major public banks--especially BHN and BANADE--to
transform these institutions into self-sustaining financial
intermediaries (discontinuing reliance on Central Bank
rediscounts and gradually reducing existing indebtedness with
the Central Bank). The Central Bank will continue to restrict
rediscounts to BHN only to finance BEHN's lending commitments
outstanding as of January 1988; a vigorous collection policy-
-including automatic foreclosure of loans in arrears--will be
an important source of funds for BHN.
Trade Policy
25.      Export expansion, efficient import substitution, increased
international competitiveness, and overall investment growth in the
productive sectors are key elements of the medium-term strategy. The
country's poor export performance in the past, while partly caused by
external conditions, has reflected a domestic economic policy environment
not conducive to export activity.  This environment in the past included
-_ -   -_-  -     - -



-47-
Page 7 of 8
overvalued and unstable excrange rates, heavy protection fcr dcmest-:
market production and sales, export taxes and other imnediments to exports.
Recently these policies have begun to change.  Since 1985, the Gove -ent
has purs_ed a policy to stimulate exports, principally through a high and
stable exchange rate policy.
26.      During 1987, the Government:  (i) transformed the temporary
admission regime for imported inputs for exports, extending it to almost
all intermediate goods and making it automatic: (ii) removed export taxes
for about 800 positions of the export nomenclature; (iii) introduced a
general GATT--compatible scheme for indirect tax reimbursement for exports;
(iv) improved credit risk assessment in export financing; (v) reduced the
production coverage of quantitative import restrictions from 62 to 37
percent of manufacturing production; and (vi) undertook a program to
simplify export and import procedures.
27.      Since the beginning of 1988, the Government has taken other
important steps: (i) transferred authority over iron and steel imports
from the General Directorate of Hilitary Industries to the Secretariat of
Industry and Foreign Trade, which subsequently removed all quantitative
import restrictions on iron and steel, thereby reducing the production
coverage of quantitative restrictions to 32 percent); (ii) reduced the
production coverage further to 30 percent by removing the import
restrictions on agricultural machinery and tractors; (iii) removed all
reference prices in line with the application of the special temporary
admissions regime to indirect exporters after first introducing a Domestic
Letter of Credit; and (v) reduced import tariffs on iron and steel,
petrochemicals, agro-chemicals, pulp and some paper products.
28.      The Government recently has taken measures to:  (i) reduce the
production coverage for quantitative import restrictions to less than
18 percent of manufacturing output and to make importation of all other
goods fully automatic; (ii) remove export taxes for about 400 positions of
the export nomenclature; and (iii) remove tariff exemptions outside the
temporary admissions regime.  By October 21, 1988, the Government intends
to reduce the average tariff rate to 30 percent (on a production-weighted
basis) and the maximum tariff rate to 40 percent, thereby also reducing
tariff dispersion.  In addition, by April 30, 1989, the Government intends
to:  (i) start the process of transferring all export transactions to the
free market exchange rate: (ii) reduce the production coverage of
quantitative import restrictions further to 15 percent; (iii) remove a
substantial number of export taxes; and (iv) remove export licenses that
are neither required by law or international agreement, or not justified on
grounds of health, quality control, or environmental protection.
29.      Other new measures will include:
-- simplification and liberalization of export procedures,
specially those affecting small- and medium-size firms; and
-- development and implementation of a comprehensive international
marketing strategy and improvement in the quality of govermment
ser-vices for exporters, specially for small- and medium-size
enterpr_ses.



-48 -
Anne V
Page 8 of 8
Industrial Policv
30       The objective of the Government's industrial policy is to promote
an internationally competitive industrial sector capable of realizing its
full export potential.  Efficient and competitive industry will increase
Argentina's global market share and improve the population's standards of
living. Achieving this goal requires that trade reform be complemented
with a reform in industrial investment incentives to increase investment
productivity., Implementation of macroeconomic and financial reforms is
also necessary to mobilize financial resources to undertake the investment.
31.      The present provincial and sectoral investment regime entail a
large fiscal cost--nearly 3.5 percent of GDP--and do not encourage the most
efficient investment. In 1988, the Government sent to Congress a law that
would unify the industrial promotion system by abolishing the special
provincial and sector regimes.
32.      As noted earlier, the Government will request a rapid passage of
the above legislation through the Senate and undertake the related measures
noted above to reduce the fiscal cost and tax abuses associated with the
present incentive regime.
Conclusion
33.      I believe you will agree this is an important agenda of measures.
The Government fully intends to pursue these measures vigorously. However,
our success depends on financial support from your organization.  Two
sectoral loans--the Banking Sector Loan and the Trade Policy Loan--have
already been negotiated.  In addition, several other investment loans are
under preparation. I trust that this program and its implementation
constitute an adequate basis for the materialization of these loans.
Sincerely,
Juan Sourrouille
Minister of Economy



- 49 -
Annex VI: Letter of Sector Policy: Ln. 2996-AR    pAnnex V
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear Hr. Conable:
1.       Argentina is rapidly approaching a crucial turning point.  If the
country can accelerate its efforts to reform the state and integrate the
economy with the world as well as put in place a program of external
finance, it will be able to surmount the obstacles that might impede
sustained growth in the years ahead. The Government has formulated a
strong program of action that could lead the country away from the path of
endemic inflation and toward a more promising future. The program's
ultimate success will rest not only on the conviction of the current
administration, but also on the determination of all Argentines to
persevere with the reform program. However, success also depends on the
decisiveness of Argentina's financial partners to work with the Government
in implementing this program to rekindle investment and growth.
2.       Trade reform and industrial deregulation are at the core of the
Government's action program. In 1987, the Government has implemented a
strong trade reform program, supported by the World Bank through a Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Loan, which focussed on the introduction
of free-trade status for Argentine exporters, but also reduced
substantially the production coverage of quantitative import restrictions.
The Government has, in 1988, vigorously continued the trade reform on the
import side, and plans to complete the reform by early 1989. Closely
coordinated with the trade reform, the Government has also worked with the
Argentine Congress on a drastic overhaul of the domestic framework for the
regulation and promotion of industry. In this context, the Government
wishes to request a World Bank loan in support of the trade policy program
and of complementing administrative actions on industrial promotion.



- 50 -
Annex Vl
Page 2 of 5
Chanre of t:e Pol cv Model
3.        aviward-looking economic policies begun irn the 1930s, the
unintended outcome of the world depression and trade contraction, and were
deliberately strengthened in the 1940s, providing a legacy of high cost
industries. Over 50 years of industrialization oriented towards the
domestic market, supported by subsidies and high protection, has left the
country with serious problems of efficiency and competitiveness in the
industrial sector. In the 1980s, macroeconomic instability and the
unavailability of long term investment financing has further inhibited the
capacity of the industrial sectors to become efficient and competitive.
4.       Export expansion, efficient import substitution, increased inter-
national competitiveness, and overall investment growth in the productive
sectors are key elements in the medium-term strategy.  The country's poor
export performance in the 1980s, while partly due to external reasons, has
reflected a domestic economic policy environment not conducive to export
activity. This environment has in the past included overvalued and un-
stable exchange rates, heavy protection for domestic market production and
sales, export taxes and other impediments to exports.  Only recently have
these policies begun to change.
5.       At the end of 1984, the Government defined a program of economic
integration into the world economy as a key part of its medium-term
strategy. This approach was designed as part of the overall, in-depth
reform of the structures and behavior of the economy. The Government
recognized that with changes in the incentive framework industrial
investment could be made much more efficient, and Argentina's world market
share could increase substantially. While the program of opening the
economy up assigns an important role to agricultural production and the
utilizaticn of energy resources, a central reliance is placed on industry,
which needs to be modernized.  Industrial exports enable the economy to
better withstand the vagaries of commodity prices.  With a larger share of
exports coming from industry, the country would be better positioned to
control its domestic macroeconomy.
Trade Policy Performance Until 1987
6.       An important effect of the Plan Austral on trade and industry has
been the progressive real depreciation of the exchange rate for trade
transactions. Fiscal necessities of the 1985 stabilization plan, however,
prompted the Government to impose a tariff surcharge of 15 percentage
points. The combined effect of real depreciation and tariff increase has
been that a number of the quantitative import restrictions, particularly
for intermediate goods, have become non-binding.
7.       The Government started to reform trade policy in 1986, and has
since intensified its efforts. The measures in 1987 were supported by a
Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan from the World Bank.  During



- 51 -
Annex VI
Page 3 of 5
1987.  the Government:  (i) transformed the temporary admission regime for
exports, extending it to almost all intermediates and capital goods and
making it automatic; (ii) removed export taxes for about 800 positions of
the export nomenclature; (iii) introduced a general GATT-compatible scheme
for indirect tax reimbursement for exports; (iv) improved credit risk
assessment in export financing; (v) reduced the production coverage of
quantitative import restrictions from 62.3 percent to 36.8 percent of
manufacturing production; and (vi) undertook a program to simplify export
and import procedures.
8.       The first indicator for a success of these reforms was a raise of
imports under the temporary admission regime for intermediates by more than
1201 in 1987 over 1986. The most recent export figures for the fourth
quarter of 1987 and the first quarter of 1988 show an increase of about 502
over first two-quarters of 1987 for the export of industrial manufactures.
The Government's perseverance in bringing about a competitive exchange rate
despite a difficult macroeconomic situation, and of moving rapidly in 1987
to establish free market status for exporters appears to produce results.
Recent Trade Policy Actions
9.       The Government has taken other important steps.  It:
(i) transferred the authority over iron and steel from the General
Directorate of Military Industries to the Secretariat of Industry and
Foreign Trade, which subsequently removed all quantitative import
restrictions on iron and steel, thereby increasing the production coverage
of fully automatic imports by 5.3 percentage points; (ii) removed all
reference prices in line with the application of the GATT customs valuation
code; (iii) extended the standard and the special temporary admissions
regime to indirect exporters after first introducing a Domestic Letter of
Credit; (iv) reduced import tariffs on iron and steel, petrochemicals,
agro-chemicals, pulp and some paper products; and (v) removed quantitative
restrictions on agricultural machinery and tractors, reducing the
production coverage of QRs to 30.22.
10.      Currently, the Government is preparing the following actions:
(i) replacing the tariff exemptions for imported capital goods granted to
firms that benefit from industrial promotion by a general flat tariff rate
of 5S for all importers; (ii) removing export taxes for a substantial
number of agricultural and industrial goods; and (iii) announcing publicly
a trade reform program concentrating on the removal of QRs and the
reduction of the maximum and the average tariff rate.
ContinuinR Trade Policy Actions
11.      The Government intends to complete the trade reform by early 1989.
Until October 31, 1988 or before, the Government will:
-- reduce the production coverage for quantitative import
restrictions (QRs) to 18Z;



- 52 -
Annex Vl
Page 4 of 5
- reduce the maximum tariff rate to 401 and the average
production weighted rate to no more than 30Z;
-- maintain the production coverage of ad valorem tariffs at no
less than 93Z;
-- not apply specific tariff surcharges other than the temporary
surcharges for certain electronic goods that will expire
progressively until September 1990; and
-- remove all industrial export interventions other than those
explicitly required in an Argentine law or in an international
agreement or necessary for the maintenance of health and
quality standards.
Until March 31, 1989, the Government will, furthermore:
-- reduce the production coverage of QRs to l5.OZ;
-- reduce the production coverage of industrial exports taxes to
7.S2; and
-- bind safeguard measures as well as countervailing duties and
anti-dumping duties to the limits on the production coverages
of QRs and ad valorem tariffs and on the average tariff rate.
Comvlementing Domestic Industrial Policy Actions
12.      The Government recognizes that the effectiveness of its trade
policy reform is seriously impaired by: (i) provisions in the various
industrial promotion laws that are responsible for high fiscal costs,
misallocation of labor and capital, and the replacement of export oriented
investments by defensive investments in internal markets designed to
capture special tax advantages; and (ii) a lack of administrative control
over the system that compounds the fiscal costs and economic distortions
and facilitates substantial tax evasion.
13.      A thorough reform of the industrial promotion system requires a
nev unified industrial promotion law as well as changes in the structure of
taxation. The Government has worked with the Argentine Congress on a law
that would unify the industrial promotion system by abolishing the special
provincial and sector regimes. It would further replace specific taz and
tariff exemptions by tax credits that can be charged against various tax
liabilities, thus avoiding serious allocative distortions. In addition,
the Government has taken the following administrative measures: Ci) the
application of a more transparent and rigorous project ranking methodology
to applicants for benefits, thereby increasing investment efficiency and
reducing in half the authorized fiscal benefits; (ii) improvement in the



- 53 -
AmuLYLI
Page 5 of 5
effectiveness of the tax collection associated with the deferment scheme
through the introduction of a system of real warranties (Resolution
2794/87); (iii) reduction of fiscal cost and closing of tax loopholes
through the elimination of the freely transferable tax credits on sales of
the suppliers to promoted firms with exemptions on the value-added tax on
purchases (Decree 575/88); (iv) eliminating the indirect tax reimbursement
for suppliers from the mainland to the island of Tierra del Fuego.
14.      The fiscal costs and the economic distortions of the existing
industrial promotion system can only be contained through improved
administrative control. In this context, the Tax Revenue Service is
currently investigating all promoted firms and is preparing reports to the
national and the provincial authorities of application. The Government
will, until March 31. 1989: (i) accelerate the program of investigations
conducted by the Tax Revenue Service; (ii) strengthen the auditing
functions of SICE which is the Authority of Application for the special
sector regimes and for all but five provinces; (iii) make public a
transparent set of auditing criteria; and (iv) submit a plan of action to
deal with all cases of irregularity detected by the Tax Revenue Service.



5 4 -
Annex VII
Annex VIl: Policy Matrix Ln. 2996-AR                                            Page  I of 2
d~~~~~~~~CLIMSU                                         Meaurs ge9X  aennuntxll            MP._s_ o 18  cmn  ceoC   jaer   _r. to L cn ador
PoLlcy obJet  fi m           (awm ta  w-)                      SeVCanoo r 30 I  95                Loan Effac%i_ffa         | iccr  'r,w   Rai,
DaaqZuA.n  cd            i
^tnouc      Em:vor-    I
(1) _.0W  Af"nIi VAtrUlt lr=M                     MM s ir TARl for Lncrmcii  G en             Full suamokcy cd          tU  Full acavacicle d   AR
ANF_-                C cAoLti  pm   Vr-c.L".           to LCO Lw i:tet en-                L      xm ma-cw  pamLrAL         ums    ttra    Go &LI
w2mhu  dumuLt  ~C  tuos n canc stelt cd                                                              t mt  cutito rug
rtZca  to C f otLm                                                   a st uw g. (SW            :     am*ccto  COL  (Sea
toc wc  F iLi  1(0 )1 tu 
htramo. (SW lEiX).I
(Ui) Erdfiret Tm            ILdLt cm t         tawm
hltmi_mm         am    sc       ucu_m  t og 1
Er,t SukadLie          oi' U~C   w  mo_tcrs
(iti) bt         T_tua   c lpt  ima   ULA   o                 Ev  rt t_m   tLona            or                                    All Lk=            amt Lvogo 
rdm   for IO  pos.ta    at       2CU U-01C L Rd IW                                                   %_Anc    mmmq  tar WZ
_O; c_=  nMA  ofO  950                                                                               7. 5:
pomiLlo    with 1SZ
Uvt) Expt Carrs          t      -U       U   Wmowasq                                                                             Al  opm  Umum,a
with Prbmkti  ctt_r_ Ot                                                                               Q^Nra  (iUiFt_ tO
1_C .                                                                                                rvquLd  byrnnuL=
(JXi)  _ stlaL  riolad
to tlu micmm at
tLur   *ciiat  or to
PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-C  hr:                                                         t_ o amlrk.                         cm ctcra;  lwti_
-ox     by h&t ttF  Lient Lum                                   alt  c         qmlLc ci SiQE
beam  r btcn cr mme                          tor deLU                            th emmmI c
-ir_m  Aterno  t tmehcrx  d  adc                                                             d cd
H_A_-tu    mi   mw  byn                                                 '   In U_ c_
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTT.tt4    cI   har  trUr
-t  rrmm  ct otp w   gc                        tt suecf   ^    Uo
tLmi c t  tt                                               d  tloclm ci crlUSn
mcmm            o etcias                                      cd  mtux  0d dt        o
d  soe  oi O_sMMeici  an cociati  dt
_,cLm.LmLnos                    m                                  bmtU; atim pi_
ad tLma  cs  zcreatro.                                             Mcna            C  r  W.
Four  _^1=PrAnla  rm_,m                                             prq_g- for  _J-tlel
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~S *dfor _S.l WadruloL.                                                                     d  ltLU1c  tor ti     trot
r_ tft  mu    CsI ot t_"ha-x   mpL   ktn
_ tmmh    for 1>Oua    to Co                                        Cul r ezn Uam    red    tte
0vei d  m          w                                                   -ti_ vee) ; Jo)rc
two  _m  Jdo_tho                                                    idae           w mo   1=.
dlro    tm       _     tbmm     tDr                                 SU2E ads1 gecC=m atd
-4om- tn0 che  _dLn                             rls_ eve  WCU~an
to Tom4L d             vU- _                                         r"        O   *wa  tit
a     _tm ot0m for Ht_r                                       Akio         tb  timM  ad
Lai FWgA    UeL    D                                           mbao"ruv  Cmt^L
ta  &I Nmo *S '
_&ve     cat 1      513 kc
alm   4_v-2   CNPC
I  ur~~~~~~~mf
l                          tl~~~~~~~frm_;
Ta Immmm _ 5vw, (=Xz) hm
pnoc    fe  ad  _Lte
comAm         km  .



- 55-
Annex VI
Page 2 of 2
ftI9S cUl iqi)    r _           W   c^s-n @fnl  U*U LW co              Cmn  cantr    M       Csa on  t   _ ca CAL& iN*om
loe  VU           Seoc.temr 30. 19ES        L|    a    Effucwvme.s        SnC T rr       R_ a
L ~~~~~~emd ff_ntt
p     n rc _                co_n.                                                      cR_.
(LI) Lg~~~~v~~  NLIaicmSJa~~~~~V~~                        Fu1ll alutcc2tIv urwLFLI amg c=Ly am"M
Uorow   cun  u    tor                                 c~~~~~~~~~~~~o 7,8000 cttrf  ottw.    to gi  cft a- twme "Ic
LLCiIWM       Lomn (t    I ugZb    10 fa7Wcf1I  1Im.                                                C aLtoI~t~uf
5,0 (of IL.7w) ttLLI aca Ii (9.7).
(Lu) Oscm                                        AU 'odf±ltLa   w              CmcInsl   .Lk              Cmmnun_      dL
%UWSLI                   ~nmra    r pr-o
&LEga:   cwo         vr-lon
_  an cmarm scan" C     o
GM  OU c    LMI  0cun  a
brl.tt m                                                                   c_
Allnco*Ln~ d
TArLt tsX
(LI)     aztIt  l9                                                                                _G
(111  tt    1 Scnt  =rumd 
-urtf tS                                                                    k 0 tro 0-53t toe    e        igenm   ,la
0      tor tttf p.ltum
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tn9tpotA
bca.                                                                        f        tri  I UZ Ca SO    COtoUi    saie.
f6w ic taLlIf I     tmorwy &EUwpw                                         % smdtlc eawwo              CmeIn   .=DLLuu
I    L±f CD t.e c f miU                                          t p -g _
S~~~~~Yv .                                                          mauwZ cor  1tttUt0
tor  U  _n r.                    r     _                            fee
3. LULwJum cd                                                                      fta    Uta *LIL  PA Ca       Cmgninm    1.L.u
Sat inram  -w                                                                    d±in1auu   attar
AM L-a.MnIf AM                                                                   EUmiaAhi at I:i
AMtL-MADwE Dium  Ca                                                              wtUWln am ym. cc to to
c.:u 2'ar-cam.                                                                   cartm wtumS UiLUts
of a       Pr--,=  coQ               e
ot .CS tl   net
ws        tcw tt ra. (r a
10L) Ut Z(L.)



- 56 -
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did not respond to the Bank's request for an independent assessment of the two operations.
The Bank's draft PCR, Parts I and EII, was sent to the Borrower on April 29, 1993, but no response has been
received.



- 57 -
PART III: BASIC DATA
A. TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
(LOAN 2815-AR)
ORIGINAL  DISBURSED   CANCELLEDI REPAD    OUTSTANDING
Loan 281 S.Ak                           -415M-$   -    496.9- 4-03    A103 -- 420. 74-
ORIGINAL LOAN DATES
ACTUAL.
~~~~~~~~.            . . .   . .-    .      .   E      :. . , . E,  
Initiating -- Ornd.. 11/0 -..
Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment          early 87
Complition of Negotistions                       04-1 5l87
Board Approval                                   05/19/87
Loan Areement.                                   07/29187
Effectiveness                                    08/19/87
Fifst Tranche Release (US$248 mi   .....        0/307W- 
:,.:~~ ~ ~~~  .:.:  ...  ..  .. ,   ..  .     .   : - -,-,, ,   ,.
Second Tranche Release (US$248 million)    12/87    12/14/87
Loan Closing      -6130/08. 12/3140 -
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(US MILLIONS)
Pl)  anned....                    ..........
First and Second Tr-nches. 4olicy                i                ....7.........
Consultant Services and Equipment           4.03        4.03       4.03
Total                                      0          600.00  -00.0:: 
(b) Actual
First and Second Tranches, Policy        495.97      495.97      495.97
Consultant Services and Equipment           0.00      0.00 0O 49i7  9.00
Total                                    495.97       49.7       495.97
STAFF INPUTS
FY86        EX F78A fXFY90
To appraisal                             43.0        35.8        0.0: i- 0.0 -0.0
Appraisal                                 0.0        23.9        0.0       0.0          0.0
Post Appraisal                            0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0     :-0.0
-.    -)          0 . .. .,  ..,..  
Negotiations                              0.0         5.1        0.0       0.0          0.0
Supervision and Administration   0           0                    fi
Total                                    43.0        64.7       27.6       3.5          3.2
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Second Trade Policy Loan (Ln. 2996-ARI: US$300M
a) As of May 31, 1993



- 58 -
B. SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
(LOAN 2996-AR)
ORIGINAL   DISBURSED   CANCELLED   REPAID    OUTSTANDIN
Loan 2996GAW                      US#300t    30.              0.0        0.Oa       321.25
ORIGNAL LOAN DATES
Initiatirg Memorandum                         3121/88&
Letter of Development Policy                  9/22/88
Letter of Setor Policy                        9/29188
Negotiations                                  8/9-30/88
Board Approval                                10/27/88
;fLoiangrement                                11114/88
Effectiveness                                 11/15/88
Second Tranche Release            early 89    08/09/90
Loa ClosiGng 00-t0 : 00 ;\0000000000- 11/30/89 0i1i2/31/80-
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(US MILLIONS)
EM      fXQ XM
First an  eodTeces  oiyW78                       2976        29.8
Consultant Services and Equipment      2.35        2.35        2.35
Total                                300.00      300.00w     300.00
(b) Actual
First and Second Tranches, Policy    150.00      150.00      300.00
Consutant Services and Equipment       0.00     0.00           0.00
Total                                150.00      150.00      300.00
STAFF INPUTS
FY88       FY89        FY90       FY91
To appraisal                        68.8       00.00         0.0       0.0
Appraisal                           27.8         2.8         0.0       0.0
Post Appraisal                       0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Negotiations                         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Supervisbon and Administration       0.0        18.2        11.2       5.4
Total                               96.6        28.4        11.2       5.4



59 -
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan ILn. 3291-AR): US8300M
Public Sector Reform Loan (Ln. 3394-AR): US$325M
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (Ln. 3555-AR): US$450M
Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3556-AR): US$300M
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3558-AR): USS450M
a) As of May 31, 1993



