Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 2815 AR 
(Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 29, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2815 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1987, between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to develop and implement  the Borrower's 
economic growth strategy focused on improving export  competitiveness and increasing 
the productive efficiency of Argentine industry (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed  imports and services 
required during the execution of the first phase of the Program;
     (B)  the Borrower, as part of the Program, will establish a fund for the 
financing of exports of manufactured goods; and
     (C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making  the Loan in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof  set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
     financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
     Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
     date as may  be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
     Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
     such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
     execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
     respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
     the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade Classification, 
1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in Commodity Indexes   for the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 
2 (1981);
     (b)  "Austral" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Banco Central" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina;
     (d)  "SICE" means the Secretaria de Industria y Comercio of the Borrower;
     (e)  "DJAT" means Declaracion  Jurada de Admision Temporaria, the Borrower's 
import request required for the importation of goods under its temporary admission 
import regime;
     (f)  "DJNI" means Declaracion Jurada de Necesidad de Importacion, the Borrower's 
general import request requirement;
     (g)  "MINEC" means the Ministerio de Economia of the Borrower;
     (h)  "Temporary Tariff Protection" means any import tariff rate increase above an 
import tariff rate of 40% on the CIF value of imports carried out by  the Borrower 
after December 31, 1986; and
     (i)  "tariff position" means the denomination of a product in the Borrower's 
import tariff nomenclature.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and  
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost  of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) Banco Central is designated as representative of the  Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be  taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  As part of the foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts Banco Central  with 
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the  Loan and for 
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in 
support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent  
practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not 
less than $100,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall by December 15, 1987 and, at 
such other times at the request of either party, exchange views on the  progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) As part of the execution of the Program, the Borrower shall, 
not later than the Closing Date, take all such measures as shall be  required to: (i) 
improve customs procedures and equipment in order to speed up international trade 
processing, including acquisition of computer and telex equipment, and weight scales; 
and (ii) strengthening the Borrower's  capabilities to carry out the Program, 
including acquisition of office equipment for SICE and MINEC.
     (b)  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the measures included in the 
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be  satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank  as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
Page  4
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to: (i) limit its Temporary Tariff 
Protection to a maximum import tariff rate of 100% on the CIF value of  imports, 
provided however, that the import tariff rate for at least 85% of the Borrower's 
import tariff positions which shall have benefitted from Temporary Tariff Protection, 
shall not exceed 70% on the CIF value of imports; and (ii) prepare and implement a 
three-year calendar for the reduction of the import tariff rates applicable to tariff 
positions which have been subject to Temporary Tariff Protection to a minimum rate of 
10% and a maximum of 60% on the CIF value of imports, provided, however, that the 
maximum import tariff  rate for at least 75% of such import tariff position shall not 
exceed 40% on the CIF value of imports.
     (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph (a) (ii), the 
Borrower undertakes to take all necessary action to ensure that the maximum  tariff 
rate for at least 75% of the value of imports under tariff positions  covered by the 
calendar referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) (ii), calculated on the basis of 
the import values for the third year of implementation of such calendar, shall be 
subject to a maximum tariff rate not exceeding 40% on the CIF value of imports.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a study on a timetable  
satisfactory to the Bank on the interest rates applicable to the Borrower's  export 
credit programs; and (ii) exchange views with the Bank on the  conclusions and 
recommendations of such study.
     (b)  The Borrower shall: (i) not later than March 31, 1988, carry out  under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, studies on improvements to  its present 
trade regime and public purchases systems and procedures and on  the levels of 
effective protection to domestic production; and (ii) promptly upon the completion of 
each of such studies furnish to the Bank, and exchange  views with the Bank on, their 
conclusions and recommendations.
     Section 3.06. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall  not 
change or fail to enforce its procedures established in Resolucion SICE  No. 1,062/86 
for consultation of producers associations in connection with the  approval of DJNI 
for the importation of goods subject to the prior  determination of the existence of 
comparable goods locally manufactured.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than four months after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  5
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event has occurred which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have approved terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank for carrying out the study referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower, including its 
external borrowing policy, is consistent with the Program.
     Section 5.02. The date October 27, 1987 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as representative of  the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINISTERIO ECONOMIA            121952-AR
               Baires
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                        THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Santiago del Puerto
Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds 
of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of (a) imported 
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds, and (b) goods and consultants' services
required for the execution of the measures referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-groups:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco, unmanu-
                                            factured tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured
      667                    -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
      688                    -              Uranium depleted in
                                            U235 and thorium, and
                                            their alloys, un-
                                            wrought or wrought,
                                            and articles therefor,
                                            n.e.s.; waste and
                                            scrap of uranium
                                            depleted in U235 and
                                            of thorium
       718                    718.7         Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, n.e.s.
      897                    897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
Page  7
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
         -                   971.0          Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures for goods subject to prior approval of DJNI pursuant to Decree 
No. 4,070/84 as amended from time to time;
     (c)  expenditures (other than those related to the measures referred to  in 
Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement), in the currency of the Borrower or for  goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (d)  payments made for expenditures prior to March 1, 1987; 
     (e)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
     (f)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any public  national 
or multilateral international financing institution or agency shall have financed or 
agreed to finance;
     (g)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or related purpose; and
     (h)  expenditures in connection with the measures referred to in Section 3.03 of 
the Loan Agreement which, in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
3.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay  
amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures, other than the those 
referred to in paragraph 2 (h) of this Schedule, to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of 
$248,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in carrying out the  Program; and (b) that the Borrower has complied with the 
conditions set forth  in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.   Unless the Borrower shall have complied with the conditions set forth or referred 
to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule by March 31, 1988, the Bank may,  by  notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make  withdrawals with respect to any 
amount remaining undisbursed in the Loan Account after such date, other than the 
amount required for the execution of the activities referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1991
     through   February 15, 2002                    20,835,000
On August 15, 2002                                  20,795,000
Page  8
________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years                                 1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for goods procured by public agencies of the Borrower estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each, and contracts for goods for  the activities 
referred to in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement estimated to  cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set  forth in Sections I and II of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans  and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is substituted 
therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner of
     the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to
     apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
     prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at 
     least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
Page  9
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum,
               Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal
               of wide international circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries and territories
               referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
               the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Fuidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder
           to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
           international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof, contracts for goods procured by public 
agencies of the Borrower estimated to cost the equivalent of less than  $5,000,000 
each and contracts for goods procured by private sector companies  may be awarded on 
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for goods for the activities referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 may be procured on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to  the Bank of the 
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, 
such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support 
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 shall not apply to contracts 
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan  Account on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
     The following are the conditions for purposes of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement:
1.   that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower, including its external 
borrowing policy is consistent with the Program;
2.   that the Borrower shall have reviewed the performance of its temporary admission 
regimes for imports regulated by Decree No. 1553, dated September 4,  1986, and Decree 
No. 1554, dated September 4, 1986, and if required, taken all administrative measures 
necessary to ensure the smooth and efficient  performance of such temporary admission 
regimes;
3.   that the Borrower shall have: (i) expanded its list of import tariff positions 
which are not subject to prior approval of DJNI by at least 700  tariff positions by 
removing such import tariff positions from the Borrower's  list of import tariff 
positions subject to prior approval in force on December 31, 1986, thus raising the 
total number of positions on the former list to at
least 7,847 import tariff positions, such import tariff positions so transferred to 
represent an annual industrial production value equivalent to at least $700,000,000, 
Page  10
calculated on the basis of the 1985 industrial production and the dollar value in 
1985; and (ii) added at least such 700 import tariff positions to the list of import 
tariff positions which are subject to automatic approval of DJAT;
4.   that the Borrower shall have prepared the calendar referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement; and
5.   that the Borrower shall have: (i) expanded its so-called "one-stop window" 
(ventanilla unica) process for the approval of exports to all its 49 customs  offices; 
and (ii) taken all necessary measures, including, if necessary,  presentation of 
appropriate legislation to Congress, to formally exclude from participating in such 
"one-stop-window" (ventanilla unica) process all public  agencies of the Borrower 
which are de facto non-participants in such export approval process.
