Page  1
September 16, 1987
Mr. Juan Vital Sourrouille
Ministro de Economia
Ministerio de Economia
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Re:  Loan No. 2815-AR (Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Minister:
          I refer to the Tloan Agreement dated July 29, 1987 between the 
International Bank for Recorstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Argentine Republic (the Borrower) for the above-mentioned Loan.  I am 
pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your request to amend the 
Loan Agreement in order to include provisions related to the parallel 
cofinancing loan by private commercial banks in support of the trade policy 
and export diversification reforms supported by the Loan, as follows:
1.
The following new paragraph "(j)" is added to Section 1.02:
     "(j) "Parallel Cofinancing Loan" means the loan made by the 
commercial banks listed on the signature pages of the Parallel 
Cofinancing Loan Agreement (hereinafter defined), and Citibank, 
N.A., as Agent (the Lenders) to the Borrower in order to assist the 
Borrower in carrying out the Program, and the term "Parallel 
Cofinancing Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Lenders, 
Banco Central de la Reptiblica Argentina, and the Borrower providing 
for the Parallel Cofinancing Loan, dated August 1, 1987."
2.       Section 4.01 is amended to read as follows:
     "Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)
an event has occurred which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried 
out; and
(b)
(i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Parallel Cofinancing Loan shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to and in accordance 
with the terms of the Parallel Cofinancing Loan 
Agreement; or
(B)
the Parallel Cofinancing Loan shall have become 
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof;
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this Section shall not 
apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the  
Bank  that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematur-ing is not 
caused by the Borrower's 
failure to perform any of its 
obligations 
under the Parallel Cofinancing Loan Agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds to support the Program are 
available to the 
Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent 
with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement."
Page  2
          Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating 
the form of confirmation on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to 
us.
Sincerely yours,
By Pieter Bottelier
Director 
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
