Page  1
June 15, 1989
Su Excelencia
Senor Jesils Rodriguez 
Ministro de Economonia 
Ministerio de Economia 
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan 2815-AR
(Trade Policy and Export Diversification 
Loan)
Amendments to the Loan Azreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) dated 
July 29, 1987, between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for 
the above-mentioned loan, as amended to this date.
I am pleased to advise you that the Bank agrees to a request 
of your Government, through Mr. Aldolfo Canitrot,' to amend the Loan 
Agreement to finance a study relating to the restructuring of Banco 
de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, in an amount-not to exceed 
US$150,000 equivalent.
Consequently, the Loan Agreement, is hereby amended as 
follows:
1.
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 is deleted.
2.
The following new paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) are added 
to Section 3.03:
"(b) As part of the execution of the Program, the 
Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, no later than 
November 30, 1989, a study on the need of, and the alternatives for, 
the restructuring of the Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires in 
order to, inter alia, reduce its operating costs and provide banking 
services. consistent with the financial requirements generated by 
the execution of the Program."
"(c) The Borrower shall (i) carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, the study referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) promptly 
upon its completion, furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, 
a copy of the recommendations and main findings of such study, (iii) 
exchange views with the Bank on such recommendations and findings; 
(iv) if the Borrower carries out the study through an entity which 
is legally or administratively independent from the Borrower, make 
available to such entity proceeds of the Loan in amounts not to 
exceed $150,000 equivalent, under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (v) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, 
waive, abrogate or repeal such arrangements or any provision 
thereof."
"(d) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out 
the measures and study included in the preceding paragraphs, the 
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment. 
shall be satsifactory to Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected 
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981."
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the 
confirmation form in the enclosed duplicated original of this letter 
and returning that duplicate to us.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Pieter Bottelier
Director, Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
