      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020206


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P145764                                               Zambia-Health RBF Project

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Zambia                                                Health, Nutrition & Population



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-95772                                             31-Jan-2013                                                             16,760,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  07-Dec-2010                                          31-Oct-2014

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                     0.00                                                17,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                      0.00                                                16,960,928.67

  Actual                                                                  0.00                                                16,720,928.67




 Sector(s)
 Health(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Child health(50%):Population and reproductive health(50%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Hjalte S. A. Sederlof              Judyth L. Twigg                     Joy Behrens                        IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The Project Development Objective (PDO) set out in the Financing Agreement (p. 4) was to increase access to, and use of, interventions for
    malaria prevention and treatment by the population of Zambia, within the context of the Recipient’s National Malaria Control Program (the
    Program). The PDO as stated in the Results Framework of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was to increase access to, and use of,
    interventions for malaria prevention and treatment by the target population. The PAD defined “target population” as being the whole
    population of Zambia, with priority given to children under five years, pregnant women, and all those infected with malaria. Following
    IEG/OPCS guidelines, this Review will assess achievement of objectives as stated in the Financing Agreement.
    The objective was formally revised at an Additional Financing on August 31, 2009, and key indicators and targets were adjusted. The
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



     revised objective, as stated in the Financing Agreement (2009), was to increase coverage of interventions for malaria prevention and
     treatment and other key maternal and child health interventions.
     The original PDO had three key outcome indicators directly linked to achieving the PDO. With the revision of the PDO under the first
     Additional Financing, a new key outcome indicator was added, and baselines and targets for the original key outcome indicators were reset
     to reflect an extension of the project Closing Date.
     Under a second Additional Financing in 2010, another new key outcome indicator was added, and baselines and targets for the other key
     outcome indicators were reset to reflect further extension of the project Closing Date.
     Efficacy will be assessed separately for the two objectives. In assessing the results, outcomes cannot be attributed only to the project: other
     donors were involved in supporting the malaria strategy; the country experienced growth and urbanization, better living conditions, and
     migration out of malaria-prone areas; and climatic variations are also likely to have contributed to outcomes. Such effects are likely to
     influence results for both objectives.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     31-Aug-2009


c.   Components
     The project initially had three components:
     Component 1: Strengthening the health system to improve service delivery (appraisal estimate US$ 13.42 million; actual cost US$
     59.86 million). This component had two sub-components:
     Sub-component 1 (a): Strengthening the health system. This sub-component was to provide funds to all 72 district health
     management teams (DHMTs) to improve their malaria service delivery. It was to finance the supply and distribution of insecticide treated
     bed nets (ITNs), increase the coverage of indoor residual spraying (IRS) in eligible areas, and provide rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) and
     microscopes to improve diagnostic accuracy, case management, and intermittent presumptive treatment of pregnant women (IPT). This
     component was also to include expansion of a Community-Based Malaria Control Program (CBMCP) to address district-level staff
     shortages that the DHMTs were facing.
     Sub-component 1 (b): Improved environmental health management. This sub-component was to finance activities to improve
     management of health care waste associated with malaria control and to support environmental monitoring for impact of insecticide use.
     The project was also to support activities outlined in a vector management action plan agreed on during project appraisal.
     Component 2: Community Malaria Booster Response (COMBOR) (appraisal estimate US$ 13.42 million; actual cost US$ 18.65
     million). This component was to strengthen local capacity to prevent, control, and treat malaria and mitigate some of the demand-side
     constraints to effective malaria control, focusing on community-level demand-driven interventions: (i) financing sub-projects by community-
     based organizations; and (ii) facilitating interventions by communities and local leaders. The community malaria booster response was to
     extend the geographic coverage of core malaria control interventions, particularly into rural communities, and involved communities in
     promoting behavior change. Administration of the COMBOR component was piggy-backed on the network infrastructure of the
     Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) demand-driven fight against HIV/AIDS.
     Component 3: Program Management. This component was to strengthen the capacity of the National Malaria Control Centre (NMCC) to
     provide technical leadership and coordination for the implementation of the national program. It was to include strengthening of the human
     resource capacity of the NMCC, as well as monitoring and evaluation of the malaria control program, including data gathering, analysis,
     and dissemination of findings.
     Revised components
     Additional Financing 1. With the original Malaria Booster Project having achieved or exceeded its targets and almost fully disbursed the
     Credit a year prior to its original January 2009 Closing Date, the Bank and the Government agreed to restructure the project, making use
     of available funds from a Russia Trust Fund and a Health Results Innovation Trust Fund (see Section 2d). The project had already had
     success in improving malaria outcomes, and the revised project was to broaden its focus by continuing its support for the malaria program
     and also supporting selected maternal and child health interventions beyond malaria. The revised project was to focus on six maternal
     and child interventions in 15 health districts, piloting results-based financing (RBF) as a tool for improving coverage and quality of the
     interventions. The RBF mechanism was not to be applied to the malaria control interventions. The revised project added the following
     activities to Components 1 and 3::
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)




       • Component 1: (i) the provision of a free package of defined preventive and curative services for pregnant women and children under
       five years, and family planning services, in 15 districts, through results-based payments, and related medical materials and training; (ii)
       activities to improve Ministry of Health (MOH) capacity to supervise and provide the RBF package; and (iii) external validation of
       results.
       • Component 3: provision of an independent fiduciary review agent to strengthen fiduciary oversight in response to broad corruption
       reported in the MOH in 2009 (see Section 11b).



    Additional Financing 2: This Additional Financing, an IDA Credit of US$ 30 million, was approved in December 2010 to help Zambia
    address increases in malaria in several provinces, as well as to sustain other ongoing project activities.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project costs: At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$ 20 million, including contingencies of US$ 1.48 million. Actual costs
    at closing were US$ 72.33 million, including contingencies of US$ 1.13 million.
    Project financing. The Bank provided two IDA credits, one for US$ 20 million at project approval in 2005, and another one at US$ 30
    million at the second Additional Financing in 2010. Early strong results of the project attracted additional funding: a Russian Federation
    Trust Fund (Russia TF-91376), a dollar-for-dollar matching grant of US$ 6.85 million that became effective in 2008, increased coverage
    of key malaria interventions; and a US$ 3 million grant from the UK Department for International Development (DfID) provided parallel
    financing to implement and evaluate combination therapies for malaria. In 2009, Zambia also received a separate grant from the Health
    Results Innovation Trust Fund (HRITF) to pilot RBF. After an initial pre-pilot in one district, the RBF mechanism was introduced on a pilot
    basis into the Malaria Booster project (as noted above).
    Borrower contribution. There was no Borrower contribution to the project.
    Dates. The project was approved on November 15, 2005, with an original closing date of January 31, 2010. The Closing Date was
    extended three times. The first time was part of a Level 1 restructuring in 2009, when the project was extended by two years to January,
    2012, with the extension being financed by the two trust funds. In 2010, when the second IDA credit was introduced, the Closing Date
    was again extended by one year to January 2013. Following implementation delays, a third extension was granted in August, 2012,
    setting a new Closing Date of June 30, 2013. To allow completion of activities financed by the HRITF, those activities were delinked from
    the main project, a new code created, and a Closing Date set for July, 2014. That date was subsequently extended to October 31, 2014,
    at which time the activities had been completed and the operation closed.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Both the original and the revised PDOs were highly relevant to the country situation, Government priorities, and Bank country strategy for
   Zambia. Malaria is endemic to Zambia, and at the time of project appraisal, it was the leading cause of morbidity and the second highest
   cause of mortality among women and children (World Bank, 2005). While this no longer is the case, in part due to preventive measures
   introduced under the project, and broad donor support for the national malaria program, malaria remains endemic and continues to be a
   continuing challenge. The shift in focus in the revised project reflects the progress against malaria. While the country has attained Millennium
   Development Goal (MDG) 6 – malaria reduction – it still lags on attainment of the MDGs for maternal and child health.
   Despite its success in tackling malaria, further improvement in malaria outcomes remains a key goal of the Government’s national malaria
   strategy, and is an important input into achieving the MDGs (4 and 5) for child and maternal health. The latter, in turn, are explicit priorities in
   Zambia’s Vision for 2030. The project has been and continues to be in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and notably
   one of its perennial goals to improve lives and protect the vulnerable; there, improving performance in the health sector has been a recurrent
   theme. A follow-on intervention focuses on health system strengthening to accelerate improvement in maternal and child health outcomes,
   building on some of the lessons of the Malaria Booster project (CAS FY13-16, p. 28).




   Rating                                                                                Revised Rating
   High                                                                                  High
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)




   b. Relevance of Design

       Project design was substantially relevant to the original and revised PDO. Activities under the original project were directly linked to expanding
       proven prevention and treatment methods for controlling and reducing the incidence of malaria among the population, and especially pregnant
       women and children. The potential impact of such methods was strengthened by the introduction of a small grants component for awareness-
       raising and behavior change in the community, drawing on a successful model for tackling HIV/AIDS. Another element – using the HIV/AIDS
       network for oversight and administrative input for the small grants component – was not as well conceived, as it received less than full attention
       from the AIDS team geared to addressing the challenges of a different disease. Formal arrangements for coordination with other stakeholders
       supporting the national malaria program (donors and the global disease program) ensured complementarity in interventions aiming at the
       common goals of malaria reduction. Planned project procedures and guidelines were an important feature to ensure that national malaria
       authorities, who had little experience in working with the Bank, were ready to do so.
       With the revised PDO, design adapted to changing circumstances on the ground, as other diseases rose to the forefront in maternal and child
       health care. Malaria remained an important cause of illness and death, and the project’s focus on improving malaria outcomes was
       maintained. Other interventions reflecting different priority maternal and child health risks were also introduced, directly addressing the second,
       non-malaria objective in the revised PDO. At the same time, and building on a pre-pilot, results-based financing (RBF) was introduced on a
       pilot basis in 15 districts in order to promote improved maternal and child health service provision. Here, the ICR notes that RBF was
       introduced without sufficient buy-in by the Ministry of Health (ICR, p. 43, 45, 46), a design element that appears to have had some
       adverse effects during implementation.
       The original and revised results frameworks were straightforward and coherent. There were clear statements of objectives, the causal chains
       between funding and outcomes were straightforward, and the target populations were specified. Linkages between planned outputs and
       anticipated outcomes were clear.




       Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                         Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To increase access to, and use of, interventions for malaria prevention and treatment by the population of Zambia, within the context of the
     Recipient’s National Malaria Control Program


    Rationale
    Outputs (outputs relate to both the original and the revised objective)
    Health system strengthening:

        • Distribution of ITNs, insecticides and other related equipment and supplies for the malaria program’s indoor residual campaign
        • Equipment and supplies for IRS, including insecticides, and operational costs
        • Activities to improve MOH capacity for case management: epidemic preparedness guidelines revised and updated, and distributed to
        provincial offices; training of community health workers in the revised curriculum, including diagnosis and treatment of acute malaria
        cases
        • Improving the capacity of the MOH for increased intermittent presumptive treatment (IPT) and training of front-line health workers on
        the use of rapid diagnostic tests and prophylaxis such as IPT, and case management for infants, children and pregnant women


    Logistics and supply chain management
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



   • Scaling up of essential medicines and logistics improvement program for last-mile distribution of health commodities


Results-based financing

   • Distribution of reproductive health commodities and vehicles at central and province levels
   • Distribution of emergency obstetric equipment (EmONC) in 20 districts, as well as vehicles for RBF team and technical focal points
   • Training of MOH and district staff, technical focal points and front line health workers in RBF and EmONC


Environmental health management

   • Improving environmental safeguards by supporting implementation of the National Health Care Waste Management Plan


Community malaria booster response

   • By December 2012, community grants had funded 530 subprojects, increasing from 52 funded community projects spread across 27
   out of 34 malaria prone districts in 2007 to 192 subprojects in 2010 covering all 34 districts. By June 2013, of a target of 768, 69% (530)
   of the community projects had been funded and 420 had completed implementation.
   • As of June 30th 2013, a total of 128 District Facilitation Team members had been trained in 10 districts to help improve the capacity
   of the districts to facilitate project cycle activities for the subprojects.
   • By mid-2013, a total of 238,2000 ITNs had been distributed to vulnerable populations (pregnant women, children under five years old,
   chronically ill patients) through the 530 subprojects spread over 34 districts in four targeted provinces


Outcomes
a. Prevention

   • The share of children under five sleeping under an ITN increased from a baseline of 16 percent to 40 percent by 2008, meeting the
   target.
   • The share of pregnant women receiving intermittent presumptive treatment (IPT) rose from 45 percent to 66 percent by 2008,
   exceeding the target of 55 percent.
   • The share of people in indoor residual spraying-eligible district areas who sleep in appropriately sprayed structures increased from 40
   percent to 60 percent by 2008, meeting the target.


b. Treatment

   • The share of children under five with a fever receiving anti-malarial drugs within 24 hours reached 29 percent in 2008, or 48 percent of
   the original target.


Care should be exercised in interpreting this particular result: the data is likely to be influenced by the success of preventive measures,
diagnostic accuracy, and fluctuations in climatic conditions.


Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
To increase coverage of interventions for malaria prevention and treatment and other key maternal and child health interventions

Revised Rationale
a. Malaria
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)




    • The revised target for increased use of bed nets by children under five to 55 percent by 2013 was exceeded, as coverage increased
    to 57 percent.
    • The revised target for the share of pregnant women receiving IPT to 75 percent was almost met, reaching 73 percent in 2013.
    • The revised target for residual spraying was adjusted to be measured at the national level, and is therefore not comparable with the
    original indicator. Nevertheless, the national target of 26 percent was exceeded, reaching 29 percent in 2013.
    • The target for children under 5 receiving anti-malarial drugs within 24 hours was changed during the 2010 Additional Financing from
    measuring prompt treatment to correct treatment. A baseline of 76 percent was set for 2010 and a target of 85 percent for 2012, which
    was met.
    • The share of households reporting spraying in the previous 12 months rose from a baseline of 23 percent in 2010 to 29 percent in
    2013, exceeding the target of 26 percent.
    • 32 percent of children under five with fever in the previous two weeks were reported having a finger or heel stick, compared to a target
    of 25 percent and a baseline value of 17 percent in 2010 (indicator of diagnostic improvement).


 b. Maternal and child health

    • The share of women delivering in facilities with skilled birth attendants in RBF districts rose from a baseline of 34 percent in 2009 to
    72 percent in 2014, exceeding the target of 50 percent; in RBF districts.
    • The share of pregnant women receiving ante-natal care during a visit to a health provider in RBF districts was 91 percent in 2014,
    exceeding the target of 75 percent and a baseline of 72 percent.
    • The number of women using contraception (new acceptors) in RBF districts was 110,800, against a baseline of 48,000, and
    exceeding the 2010 target of 67,000.
    • 67,300 children were immunized in RDF districts by 2014, against a baseline of 50,000 and a target of 65,000.


 Summary. Overall, the trend in malaria incidence over the 2001-2013 period, as described in the ICR (p. 29), shows a markedly declining
 trend until 2008, after which the trend lines flatten out, indicating that malaria incidence was relatively stable after that, albeit with continued
 decline in malaria deaths (the latter declined from 3,500 malaria child deaths in 2006 to 2,100 in 2013). Taking into account the increase in
 child population, about 17 percent over the period, about 7,000 child deaths were averted (ICR, p. 52). A reasonable conclusion is that the
 project, together with other interventions, contributed to a substantially improved situation.
 The achievements outside the malaria context reflect a steady uptake in maternal and child health services in RBF intervention districts.
 The differences between targets and actuals average 46 percent. This may reflect an underestimation of the power of RBF, based on the
 limited experience of the pre-pilot, and would then be a fairly convincing demonstration of the effectiveness of RBF.
 It should be recognized that the results cannot only be attributed to the project, but rather to the overall malaria program to which the
 project contributed with various other donors in an integrated way. That said, IDA’s financial support to the program was some 16 percent
 over the period 2006-2013. On that basis it is unlikely that the above outcomes can be wholly attributed to the project. However, its
 contribution is nevertheless likely to have been significant. Bank funding was expected to fill critical gaps (ICR, p. 1), including providing
 operating costs when there were shortfalls in the program, and in that way ensuring that effective use was made of program inputs. in
 addition, the focus of AF 1 was on high-incidence provinces, something that plausibly should have had an important effect on the national-
 level outcomes.


 Revised Rating
 High




5. Efficiency

The ICR undertakes a cost-benefit analysis and a cost-effectiveness analysis of the malaria program covering the project period 2006-2013.
The analysis recognizes that isolating project outcomes from program outcomes is not possible. World Health Organization (WHO) data for
low-income countries was used to ensure the plausibility of the Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) attained in the analysis. Sensitivity
analysis on benefits was undertaken. Finally, discount rates of 3 percent and 5 percent were used. Baseline scenarios for both cost-benefit
and cost-effectiveness calculations yielded favorable results that are in line with findings of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health,
and the Copenhagen Consensus.
While the favorable results arise mostly from the welfare benefits of reduced child mortality, project implementation also paid attention to
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



 efficiency gains from process changes. The early adoption of newly available malaria techniques made prevention and treatment more
 effective: the switch to long-lasting bed nets that require no retreatment, and the use of combination ACT drugs.
 Recurrent costs for the malaria program were estimated at US$ 45 million per year, or some 13% of the MOH-s annual budget over the 2006-
 2013 period.
 A cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken of the RBF pilot, and found it to be cost effective: effectiveness was found to be 16 percent
 higher with than without RBF. Using different comparators for quality adjustment, results were found to vary, but overall they pointed to
 favorable impact from the RBF program.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Project under original objective: satisfactory
Relevance of the original objective is rated high, as it was addressing a priority health risk and supporting both Government and Bank strategy.
Relevance of design is rated substantial, reflecting robust design, but also generating some uncertainties relating to community grant
administration. Efficacy is rated substantial, as the project achieved, or nearly achieved, its intended outcomes on access to services for
malaria prevention and treatment. Efficiency is rated substantial.
Project under revised objective/targets: satisfactory
Relevance of the revised objective/targets is also rated high, as it addressed priority maternal and child health risks, as well as continued malaria
risk, and continued to reflect both Government and Bank strategy. Relevance of design is rated substantial, reflecting robust design, but also
raising some uncertainty about provisions to anticipate and address MOH's commitment to the RBF. Efficacy is rated high, as targets were
mostly reached or exceeded with regard to both malarial and non-malarial objectives. Efficiency is rated substantial.
According to the harmonized OPCS/IEG guidelines for restructuring projects, the final outcome rating is determined according to the percentage
of the Credit that disbursed before and after project restructuring. The share of the Credit disbursed before restructuring was 33 percent, and
after restructuring 67 percent. The satisfactory ratings both before and after the restructuring amount to a combined final outcome rating of
satisfactory



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The malaria element of the project faces a number of risks. Some are epidemiological, as climate and entomologic conditions can lead to
outbreaks at any time, as was observed through limited outbreaks during project implementation, and to resistance. Here, disease surveillance
and quick responses to outbreaks will be key factors to maintaining gains. Financial risk is also present. The Government is allocating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



resources through the budget, as are donors who continue to support the malaria program. At the same time, the effort may over time be
weakened by the shift in focus in the health community to systemic approaches to health care, This is reflected in the Bank’s withdrawal from
the malaria program and its broader support for health systems development through the follow-up Health Services Improvement Project, which
provides more direct support to RBF, and to maternal and child health.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     In preparing the project, the Bank team benefited from strong technical advice in designing the malaria interventions, including contributions
     from the WHO, and a technical quality enhancement review prior to initial project appraisal. Experience from implementing a prior health
     sector project provided lessons that were recognized in the risk assessment and incorporated into project design, mostly linked to capacity
     limitations in MOH and at field level, in institutions for procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. Results
     frameworks were clear, and monitoring and evaluation design was thorough (see Section 10a). The project was fully aligned with
     Government and Bank priorities, initially in combatting malaria, and subsequently on a more systemic basis to approaching health care. It
     was also integrated with Government and donor support for the national malaria program. The groundwork for assigning responsibility for the
     administration of community grants to the AIDS response program may have been insufficiently prepared, as the program subsequently would
     appear reluctant to sufficiently commit to the success on malaria.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Project implementation was closely monitored with supervision missions occurring every six months, in addition to continuous field support.
     Supervision included training in Bank procedures, resolving bottlenecks, notably initial capacity constraints and personnel gaps in the MOH,
     and seeking additional grant funding for the malaria program, notably the Russian Trust Fund and the HRITF. The team maintained
     reasonable continuity in leadership (two team leaders over the full period with sufficient overlap), and an appropriate skills mix, including
     technical, procurement, and financial management experts. It successfully supported the early achievement of objectives under the original
     project, and supported the expansion of the original project into the two Additional Financings with satisfactory outcomes (see Section 6
     above). The team provided a balanced response to a corruption scandal in the MOH (see Section 11b), including adjustments to the project to
     address delays in implementation as a result of the scandal. With the closing of the AIDS program, the team supported the shift of community
     grant administration to the malaria program. While Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) point to a strong relationship built with the MOH,
     there also appears to have been some friction. This is the case with the implementation of the RBF, where initially there appears to have been
     insufficient consideration of MOH views, subsequently resulting in some instability in RBF-related staffing (ICR, p. 12). The ICR (p. 41) also
     points to the absence of documentation of district-level expenditures on malaria activities over a 30-month period between 2007 and 2009.
     More generally, during the early years of the project it appears that little use was made of the indicators to monitor progress in the Bank’s ISR
     system (ICR, p. 17).



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)




a. Government Performance
  The Government demonstrated strong ownership and commitment to the project's objectives, and the MOH was fully engaged in project
  preparation and implementation. The Government was an early adopter of malaria strategies, and its malaria program reflected best
  practice. To implement it, the Government had built partnerships with donors, the private sector and NGOs, and it had given operational
  leadership to a technically competent National Malaria Control Center. Strong Government commitment was also reflected in its
  willingness to continue borrowing from the Bank in 2010 to respond to the resurgence of malaria, and to allocate US$ 24 million of
  budget funding to the program in 2012.
  Government performance did, however, suffer from a number of incidents: (i) a corruption scandal showed that MOH had significant
  weaknesses in its internal control systems: quarterly project financial reports were late and their use seems to have been uncertain (ICR, p.
  42), and observations in auditors' reports were not acted on; (ii) a re-organization of the MOH shifting responsibilities for maternal and child
  health to a new ministry created disruptions in the RDF pilot; and (iii) further disruptions in the RBF pilot were generated by staffing
  disputes between the MOH and the Bank. Internal controls were subsequently strengthened, and Bank disbursement arrangements
  adjusted; and the re-organization of MOH was later reversed. Neither of these appear to have had an adverse impact on project outcomes,
  only the pace of implementation. The results of the pilot RBF mechanism may have been somewhat compromised both by the re-
  organization and MOH concerns.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The main implementing agencies were the NMCC and the RBF Implementation Support Team.
  The NMCC was regarded by the Government and stakeholders as being a competent agency for implementing the malarial program. It
  worked with partners and coordinated joint annual reviews and malaria program planning. Bi-annual Management Information System
  (MIS) surveys and resistance monitoring were completed on time and used to inform decision making. Once the administration of the
  community grants program was transferred to NMCC from the AIDS program, performance improved and results were recorded, including
  400 completed projects by mid-2012. The NMCC maintained an informative website (ICR, p.43) during the project.
  Financial management displayed some shortcomings in budgeting and internal auditing, in accounting, and in financial management
  reports being consistently late and incomplete. In response to corruption allegations in 2009, measures were successfully taken to improve
  financial management. The RBF Implementation Support team of consultants was to manage the RBF pilot. The reluctance of MOH to
  accept them as program manager made this job difficult. Nevertheless, they were able to roll out the pilot to ten additional districts (it was
  already rolled out in the pre-pilot district). There were some delays in paying bonuses, which may have influenced the effectiveness of the
  program.




  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  Objectives were clearly specified for the original as well as the revised PDO. The set of indicators underpinning the original and revised PDOs
  were straightforward and measurable, albeit narrow when it came to measuring malaria treatment (focusing on early treatment of symptoms in
  children). The ICR points to some inconsistencies in the formulation of indicators, as the form of a number of them was adjusted as the project
  moved from its original form through the Additional Financings (ICR, p. 15). Data collection instruments were national, combining periodic
  surveys (the five-year Zambia Demographic and Health Survey, DHS, and a bi-annual Malaria Indicator Survey) with routine collection of MOH
  MIS data. Baseline data was available in most instances, and for all key indicators. It was recognized early on that data was national, rather
  than project-specific, except for the maternal and child health indicators introduced with Additional Financing, which were specific to the target
  areas. The RBF pilot included a baseline, monthly and quarterly data reporting, an independent technical review, a process evaluation, and an
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



   Impact Evaluation comparing pilot facilities to control groups.




b. M&E Implementation
   All planned M&E activities for malaria were carried out on schedule and were of high quality, according to the ICR (p. 17). The NMCC
   published a comprehensive M&E plan on its website along with data from the Malaria Indicator Surveys, as well as monthly data from ten
   sentinel districts. The MIS was upgraded to provide real-time data through a rapid reporting system. The M&E system also drew on DHS
   data.




c. M&E Utilization
   The NMCC made extensive use of the routine data in its MIS as well as from other sources. It published a number of papers on the impact
   of malaria program activities. It paid particular attention to regional differences, and as one result, it stratified the country into three malaria
   zones, adjusting the malaria program to target high-risk areas. A strategic malaria plan covering the period 2011-2015 drew extensively on
   the data in the MIS. RBF monitoring data was a key tool in assessing quality and determining incentive structures for facilities in the
   program.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   Two safeguards were triggered by the project: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09). The
   project was assigned environmental category B. Safeguard compliance was rated satisfactory consistently in ISRs, with careful attention
   from a Senior Environmental Specialist on some supervision visits. The National Health Waste Management Plan was reviewed during
   appraisal and found satisfactory. The Plan was updated in 2009 and disclosed in 2010 as part of preparations for the restructuring and AF.
   The 2014 RBF Technical Review team found instances of poor medical waste disposal. For pesticides, no environmental assessment was
   required given a detailed assessment already done by WHO, which had found Zambia’s vector control activities to be acceptable.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Early delays in procurement were quickly resolved. After 2009/2010, turnover of procurement staff exacerbated capacity
   constraints, and there were delays in some large procurement packages. A procurement specialist consultant was hired under the project, and
   supervision missions gave careful attention and intense implementation support to help resolve specific problems and suggest ways to address
   underlying causes. Senior MOH management also worked to speed up processing of large, time-sensitive procurement packages.
   Financial management. Financial Management was not a strength of the project. The medium term review in May of 2008 found the project's
   financial accounting working well, but other financial management components were performing poorly, a situation that persisted for three years.
   Budgeting and internal audit for the project were weak, and financial management reports were consistently late and incomplete. The project
   stopped using financial management software system in October of 2008 and reverted to unreliable Excel sheet manual accounting, which,
   together with staff shortages, resulted in continued weak performance. In response to corruption allegations in the MOH made in 2009, the
   government and the Bank carried out extensive investigations. Following an in-depth review of project financial management by the Bank in
   2009, a financial management improvement plan was developed, and the financial management arrangements for the Additional Financings
   were revised. The MOH hired a Senior Accountant for the project, and the Bank intensified supervision attention to all aspects of FM and
   provided additional training in Bank guidelines .An Independent Fiduciary Review Agent (IFRA) was contracted to review all financial
   management and procurement transactions and build capacity of MOH teams. No further IDA funding was provided through the pooled funding
   (“basket”) mechanism through which Government and donor funds were being channeled, and direct payment to suppliers was encouraged.
   Supervision reports in 2011 reported improved financial management, and very detailed 2012 and 2013 financial management supervision
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



   reports showed that most issues had been fully resolved, including unqualified audits, timely reporting and replenishment requests, and much
   improved budgets and record keeping.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                               High                               ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

These lessons are drawn from the ICR.
Behavior change interventions and community involvement can persuade households to actually use ITNs, and to know when to seek
care and actually access care when needed, but more work is needed to know how best to design and implement interventions to achieve
the desired behaviors. The MIS and DHS assessed the extent to which ITNs were actually used by household members, and found significant
gaps between net ownership and use. Distribution of nets is not enough, and it makes sense to include a demand-side intervention, such as the
community grant mechanism, to elicit appropriate behaviors. However, more thought needs to go into design, implementation and monitoring.
Interventions are most successfully implemented by people who understand their purpose and have a vested interest in the outcome or
have some other incentive to perform well and appropriately monitor and assess impact. The initial decision to have the AIDS team administer
the small grants was logical. They had the relevant experience, procedures, and infrastructure (transport, etc.), and it would have been costly
and inefficient to try to set up duplicate capacity in the NMCC. However, the AIDS team lacked motivation and understanding to ensure that the
malaria grants were as effective as the HIV grants.
Results-based financing is complex to design and implement well, and so it makes a lot of sense to proceed in careful stages, and learn and
adjust along the way. This project is a good example of a staged approach. It began with a pre-pilot in one district, then a full pilot that included
a limited set of outcomes and facilities and careful evaluation that could offer experience to use for a decision on whether to adopt the approach
widely.




14. Assessment Recommended?
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Zambia-Health RBF Project (P145764)



No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

While the document is relatively extensive, it offers a strong basis on which to assess the project. It provides well-presented evidence and solid
analysis on which to draw conclusions. The document is informative, internally consistent, and in line with the guidelines. It is particularly
thorough in analyzing the pros and cons of implementation, and in its analysis of monitoring and evaluation processes (often a weak element in
ICRs). The assessment of outcomes is thorough and convincing, and the malaria trend analysis and the discussion on RBF are additional
bonuses, as is the analysis of poverty impact. The cost effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses are thorough, as is the set of lessons
learned..




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     High
