Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7 148-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$800 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
June 5, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Rubles (Rb)
US$1           5744 Rb
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Rubles per US$1
1926          1295             1994              1993
5500 Rb       4640 Rb          3550 Rb            1247 Rb
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIS  -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBF  -  Extra-budgetary Fund
EF  -  Employment Fund
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
FES  -  Federal Employment Service
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOR   -  Government of Russian Federation
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ILO   -  International Labor Organization
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
LIBOR   -  London Interbank Offering Rate
MLSD   -  Ministry of Labor and Social Development
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NGO   -  Non-Govemmental Organization
OECD   -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAYG   -  pay-as-you-go (pension system)
PF  -  Pension Fund
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
RF  -  Russian Federation
SAL   -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL   -  Sector Adjustment Loan
SIF  -  Social Insurance Fund
SPAL   -  Social Protection Adjustment Loan
SPIL   -  Social Protection Implementation Loan
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Robert Liebenthal, EC3HR
Responsible Staff: Hjalte Sederlof (Task Manager, EC3HR), Anastassia Alexandrova (EC3MO), Jeanine
Braithwaite (PGP), Arvo Kuddo (EMTHR), David Lindeman (HDDSP), Andrei Markov
(EC3MO), Jonathan Pavluk (LEGEC), Alexandra Posarac (Consultant, Social Protection)
Contributors: Robert Ackland (Consultant, Poverty Analysis), Mary Canning (EC3HR), Kathryn
Dahimeier (EC3HR), Lev Freinkman (EC3C2), Thomas Hoopengardner (EC4MS),
Emmanuel Jimenez (PRDPH), Timothy King (EC3HR), Jeni Klugman (EC3HR),
Alexander Kolev (Consultant, Poverty Analysis), Marsha McGraw Olive (EC3C2), Costas
Michalopoulos (EC3DR), Branko Milanovic (PRDPH), Pradeep Mitra (EC3C2), Alexander
Morozov (EC3MO), Philip O'Keefe (EC3HR), Arlene Pastor (EC3HR), Friedrich
Peloschek (LEGEC), Suman Rajpal (EC3H4R), Andrei Roudoi (Consultant, Pension
Modeling), Michal Rutkowski (EC3C2), Marcelo Selowsky (ECAVP), Kalanidhi Subbarao
(PGP), Mark Sundberg (EC3C2), Ronald Venezia (EC3HR), Ruslan Yemtsov (SA2CI),
Ulrich Zachau (EC3C2)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IBRD LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .
1. INTRODUCTION.                                                                                              I
II. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT .I
111. SOCIAL PROTECTION IN RUSSIA.                                                                             4
GENERAL.                                                                                                      4
SOCIAL PRCTECTION PROGRAMS AND ISSUES.                                                                        5
Pensions.                                                                                                  5
Unemployment Assistance                                            ........................................................6
Social Assistance.                                                                                         7
Child Allowances.                                                                                          7
Social Insurance                                                                                           8
IV. GOVERNMENT SOCIAL PROTECTION REFORM PROGRAM ........................................................ 8
GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY.                                                                                        8
Pensions.                                                                                                  9
Unemployment Assistance .I I
Social Assistance .......................................................                                 12
Child Allowances .......................................................                                  13
Social Insurance Fund .......................................................                             13
Gender Aspects .......................................................                                    14
V. THE PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN .......................................................   14
OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE .......................................................                             14
FrNANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .15................................... I S
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS .16
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .16
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................                               16
INSTITUTIONAL BENEFITS .16
THE IMPACT ON POVERTY .17
POLITICAL RISKS .18
INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRAINTS .1 9
VII. SUPPORT FOR SPAL IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................                 19
VIII. RECOMMENDATION .......................................................                                20
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
ANNEX  1: LETTER  OF SECTOR  DEVELOPMENT  POLICY ....................................................................                               21
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX ....................................................................                                                     33
ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS ....................................................................                                           37
ANNEX 4: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS ....................................................................                                            41
ANNEX 5: SYSTEMIC PENSION REFORM IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ............................................ 43
ANNEX  6: SOCIAL ASSISTANCE PILOTS BACKGROUND ....................................................................                                47
ANNEX 7: MAJOR FINDINGS OF THE POVERTY ASSESSMENT AND THE SPAL .................................. 51
ANNEX  8: MATRIX  OF SPAL  SUPPORTING  ACTIVITIES .....................................................................                           55
ANNEX 9: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS ........................................................... 57
ANNEX  10: STATUS OF BANK  GROUP OPERATIONS IN  RUSSIA .............................................................. 59
ANNEX  11: RUSSIAN  FEDERATION  AT-A-GLANCE .....................................................................                               63
MAP SECTION .....................................................................                                                               65



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Russian Federation
Guarantor:          Not Applicable
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Development
Beneficiary:        Not Applicable
Poverty:            Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:             US$800 million
Summary:            The proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) aims at the following:
(a) to mitigate the adverse effects of transition on poor and vulnerable population
groups; and (b) begin to build up an effective and sustainable system of income
support and poverty relief that meets the requirements of a market economy. The
SPAL will focus on reforms in social insurance (including pensions and short-termn
insurance for sickness and maternity), unemployment assistance, child allowances
and social assistance. It will pursue poverty alleviation by raising and protecting
minimum benefits, and through better targeting. It will help establish a viable
social safety net by introducing structural reforms in pensions and welfare
programs.  In order to help safeguard the Government's macroeconomic
stabilization targets, the SPAL will emphasize efficiency improvements in the
safety net programs and the reallocation of resources within existing programs
towards needy groups, without increasing public expenditures as severe fiscal
constraints prevent the Government from undertaking reallocations from other
sectors in the short term.
Terns:               Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace at the Bank's standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:      0.75% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Onlending Terms:    Not Applicable
Net Present Value:    Not Applicable
Project ID Number:   RU-PA-38573
Map:                Number 27188R






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IBRD LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Russian Federation for the equivalent of US$800 million to provide financial support for the
Government's Social Protection restructuring program. The loan would be at the standard LIBOR-based
interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans, with a maturity of seventeen years, including five years
of grace.
2.    A new Russian Government has recently been formed with the mandate to carry forward a
second wave of economic reforms aimed at comprehensive solutions grounded in accumulated
knowledge and experience. Prime targets for this second wave of reform are the social sectors, in broad
terms involving social protection, education, health and housing; the budget; and the natural monopolies,
which through non-payment of taxes are one of the root causes of the pervasive problem of arrears in the
payment of wages and social benefits, especially pensions.
3.    The proposed SPAL is the result of a long period of sustained collaboration between the Russian
authorities and the Bank to develop a social safety net that will build on and replace social protection
programs that existed prior to transition and that will be more appropriate for the requirements of a
market economy. As a result of that collaboration, the Government has, over the recent months, put in
place a policy framework for a medium-term program to reform social protection (pensions,
unemployment benefits and labor market structures, short-term benefits i.e. sickness and maternity
benefits, and child allowances). The program focuses on addressing immediate issues as well as
launching the process of building the system for the medium and long term.
II.    THE MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.     Russia's transition to a market economy has been both wrenching and chaotic. Implementation
of reforms has fluctuated from boldly market-oriented (e.g., capital markets development) to being
captured by vested interest groups (e.g., case-by-case privatization) to near stagnation (e.g. agriculture).
Average annual inflation remained high for most of the period, reaching a peak above 1300% during
1992 and falling below 100% only in 1996; measured GDP has fallen by 40% in real terms since 1991
and still fell by 6% in 1996; and there has been a dramatic increase in poverty, and various surveys
indicate that despite some recent improvements 25-35% of the population are living in poverty.
5.    Notwithstanding the short-term fluctuations in policymaking and the dramatic decline in output,
it is clear that a major economic transformation has taken place in Russia over the last several years.
Over 70% of GDP is now produced in the private sector; prices and trade have been essentially
liberalized; the monthly rate of inflation has dropped to below 2% on average for the past 12 months; and
a trade surplus of US$23 billion was recorded in 1996. Recently, Russia returned to the international
capital markets with two Eurobond issues of US$ I billion and DM2 billion respectively.



- 2 -
6.     The last twelve months have been a period of gradual political and economic stabilization,
setting the stage for a resumption of economic growth in the second half of 1997 and 1998. In elections
held in June-July 1996, the Russian people broadly endorsed continued progress toward a market
economy under the leadership of President Yeltsin. On the macroeconomic front, Russia complied with
all agreed quantitative targets under the EFF arrangement with the IMF for the end of 1996. The 1997
EFF arrangement was approved by the IMF's Board of Directors on May 16, 1997. Inflation continues
to slow down, and the exchange rate continues to appreciate slowly in real terms, remaining comfortably
within the stronger half of its pre-announced sliding band.
7.     Although basic financial stabilization has now been achieved, it remains fragile. Sustained
macro-stabilization and the realization of dynamic private sector led growth -- the key to raising general
living standards and easing growing social tensions -- will depend on the implementation of fundamental
structural reforms. Making the necessary political choices in support of such reforms has long proved
exceedingly difficult in Russia. In his address to the Federal Assembly in March, 1997, the President
strongly reaffirmed his commitment to completing stabilization and accelerating structural reforms and
as noted above, the President and Prime Minister restructured the Government to make it more
responsive to carrying out this agenda.
8.     Further fiscal consolidation is a prerequisite for both economic growth, and to help mitigate the
social consequences of transition.  It is essential to reduce inflationary expectations, encourage
households and investors to move out of hard currency holdings, help reduce real domestic interest rates,
and sustain overall macro-financial stabilization. Reducing the federal budget deficit (still between 7 and
8% of GDP in 1996, according to preliminary estimates) and achieving a sustainable fiscal balance will
remain an enormous challenge, given persistently poor tax collections at the federal level (less than 12%
of GDP in 1996). The poor revenue performance has caused several delays in the monthly tranches of
the EFF. It has undermined orderly fiscal management and led to the sequestration of expenditures,
contributing to an increase in budget arrears and non-payment of wages and pensions. Moreover, most
of the resulting budget deficit has been financed domestically, which has contributed to high real interest
rates, increased the cost of domestic debt service for the budget, and crowded out lending to the private
sector.
9.     The need for decisive fiscal reform to address the basic causes of the weak revenue performance
is urgent. Such reform will entail: (i) removing remaining serious distortions in the overall tax structure;
and (ii) dramatically improving the efficiency of tax administration. In addition, several large and
currently inefficient expenditure programs need to be rationalized, especially in the areas of housing,
pensions, and defense. The budget management system and process needs to be strengthened, and inter-
governmental fiscal reforms need to correct mismatches between expenditure responsibilities and
revenue assignments, to encourage fiscal responsibility and the implementation of key structural reforms
by sub-national governments.
10.    Provided there is sustained macro-fiscal stabilization, growth will be propelled by reforms that
introduce competition and enhance the efficiency of the country's huge, monopolistic energy and
infrastructure sectors; development of the private sector; and banking sector reforms. Reform of the so-
called natural monopolies will have large positive spillovers throughout the economy. Their improved
performance should also have a strong positive impact on reduction of wage and pensions arrears, as the
natural monopolies are the biggest debtors to the budget and extra-budgetary funds. The realization of
dynamic private sector growth -- through efficiency gains from competition and restructuring as well as
from new investment -- will depend mainly on improvements in the overall business environment. Banking
sector reforms -- including dealing with illiquid and insolvent banks, improving bank accounting and



supervision, and payment systems reform -- will be essential to facilitate the financial deepening that is
needed both for the consolidation of stabilization on the monetary and credit side, and for effective
financial intermediation as a basis for investment and growth.
11.   On the external front, foreign trade has been a bright spot in Russia's economic performance
over the last five years. Its current account balance amounted to 2.8% of GDP in 1996, with exports
(dominated by energy resources and other raw materials) outpacing imports by US$20 billion. The
composition of trade has also changed substantially, and CIS countries now account for just 20-30% of
Russia's exports and imports. Russia has continued making good progress in liberalizing its foreign
trade regime, and average statutory import tariffs are below 15%. Trade liberalization, greater access to
hard currencies, and the successful implementation of an exchange rate corridor in 1995-96 have had a
profound effect on the domestic price structure and the real exchange rate. The steady real appreciation
of the ruble over the period 1992-96 fundamentally reflects the growing convergence of domestic and
world prices. It has also led to a reemergence of protectionist pressures, which have been largely resisted
so far except in few isolated cases. The Government hopes to complete WTO accession in 1998, which
would help to preserve Russia's basically liberal trade regime.
12.   The main medium-term scenario in the 1998-99 CAS assumes that "good policies" are expected
to continue. Over the next three years, a combination of revenue increases and spending cuts is forecast
to reduce the budget deficit by more than half, to less than 3% of GDP. On this basis, inflation is
projected to continue falling (to around 6% a year after 1999), and the ruble is expected to continue
appreciating in real terms. The resulting restoration of confidence in the economy is expected to lead to
an expansion of foreign investment, a slow-down and eventual reversal of net capital outflows, a
reduction in real interest rates (to roughly 6% by the year 2000), and progressive financial deepening
(growth of banking sector assets as a share of GDP, which stood around only 25-30% in late 1996). All
this will serve to support a gradual recovery of output as Russia copes with the ongoing challenges of
deepening market reforms and industrial restructuring.
13.   In this scenario, output growth is projected to turn around by mid-1997, with zero year-on-year
growth in 1997, positive growth in 1998, and a projected trend growth of 6% annually thereafter. This
would allow a recovery of output to just below 1991 levels by 2005. The recovery will be driven by a
further expansion in services (trade, telecommunications, banking), export oriented industries (oil, gas,
metallurgy), power, and later on housing, with a growing positive effect on overall factor productivity.
Investment is forecast to increase substantially, growing at an average annual rate around 9% for a few
years, although gross investment as a share of GDP is expected to rise only slightly due to lower than
average price increases for investment goods.
14.    Fundamental restructuring of key sectors of the economy, envisaged to take 10-15 years, will be
key to the resumption of growth. The Government program argues that structural reform must be
underpinned by a stable macroeconomic environment, increased investment, reallocation of assets and
resources currently tied up in non-productive enterprises, and deep institutional transformations required
to make the market economy operate efficiently. The Government's medium-term program, submitted
to the State Duma on March 6, 1997 1 notes that the first phase of reforms following the collapse of
central planning is substantially completed, and that Russia has become predominantly a market
economy. Building on these achievements, the Government intends to take measures to restore growth,
which it sees as a prerequisite for reducing poverty and addressing other social problems.
"Medium-Term Reform Program for 1997-2000: Restructuring and Economic Growth"



-4 -
III.    SOCIAL PROTECTION IN RUSSIA
GENERAL
15.    There have been severe social costs of economic and institutional transition in Russia. Since
1992, real money incomes and output have fallen by over 40%, and a gradual widening in income
distribution among population groups and between regions has occurred. High average monthly rates of
inflation have adversely affected the population, especially those on fixed incomes. Real earnings have
fallen, and in 1996 real wages averaged less than half their level in 1991. Increasing numbers of people
have been subject to layoffs and hours adjustment in the face of overstaffing and falling labor demand.
In 1996, only some 40% of the work force was paid fully and on time. Unemployment, including
disguised unemployment and underemployment, is now estimated to be close to 15 percent.
16.   The poor in Russia are primarily families with children, the unemployed and the elderly living
alone who receive a minimum pension. The working poor predominate, reflecting the strong negative
impact of wage arrears: some 66% of poor households are headed by someone who is employed. The
largest sub-group is composed of households with children, including in particular young households.
Generally, the younger and more numerous the children, the more likely that the family is poor (see
Annex 7).
17.    Pensions, unemployment benefits, child allowances and social assistance programs and short-
tenn sickness and maternity benefits absorbed some 8% of GDP in 1995. In addition, enterprises and
local authorities (oblast level) provide an array of social benefits, ranging from subsidized housing and
utilities to cheap food and vacations. While income from formal and informal sector activities is the
primary form of support for the majority of the population, the formal social safety net also plays an
important role for many households. On average, public transfers accounted for 16.7% of household
income at the start of 1996. Private transfers have always been an important component of the safety net
in Russia, and while there is little accurate information on them, they appear to continue to be so.
Finally, the NGO sector is emerging as an important complement to the overall safety net.
18.    Social insurance and unemployment assistance are financed through extra-budgetary funds
(EBFs), supported by payroll taxes currently totaling 34.8% of the wage bill. Child allowances are a
universal benefit financed from local revenues and supplemented with federal transfers. Such transfers
are in the form of unconditional block grants to oblasts for a range of federal government obligations, of
which child allowances are a designated priority. Social assistance is funded entirely from local
resources.
19.    This system has not been able to cope well with the demands placed on it by transition:
* It is a costly system: average replacement rates are high (although benefit amounts are low)
and coverage is extensive and untargeted;
* The current payment crisis (pension and wage arrears) exacerbates the situation: the payroll
tax base is eroding, as production shifts towards informal or unreported activities, and there
are growing arrears in federal obligations;
* Decentralization has not worked well: local resources have been insufficient to provide
poverty relief, especially in poorer regions with weak local tax bases; existing federal



- 5 -
equalization mechanisms lack transparent rules that would allow better targeting of poorer
regions; and limited federal resources have kept transfers small;
*  There is no basic poverty benefit; local regional social assistance programs attempt to fill
this role, but vary widely in the poverty focus of their interventions and are underfunded; and
*  A large number of poor households do not receive benefits, with one out of five poor
households not receiving any public transfers. Benefits are also insufficient to lift poor
families over the poverty threshold: unemployment rates average on some 15% of the
subsistence minimum; child allowances between 13% and 19% of the subsistence minimum
for children; the pension floor is at 75% of the elderly subsistence level; and social
assistance is widely regarded as inadequate in scope and amount to have a significant impact
on poverty.
20.   In sum, the current system, if maintained in its present form, will not be able to provide adequate
social protection. It is unable to fulfill either a poverty relief or an income replacement function
adequately, nor can the programs be set at or above subsistence without upsetting fiscal balance -- it
would require an estimated additional 4% of GDP (start 1996) to raise all poor households to subsistence
levels. Efforts to reduce poverty and strengthen social protection will require a combination of economic
growth and reforms in transfer programs. An appropriate safety net strategy requires: (i) higher
minimum benefits and better targeting of vulnerable groups; (ii) adjusting existing programs to improve
efficiency; and (iii) initiating systemic reforms to create an affordable system of poverty relief and
income maintenance.
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROGRAMS AND ISSUES
Pensions
21.    The pension system is the largest social transfer program, accounting for around 5.5% of GDP
and providing support to 37 million pensioners. It is a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system, financed
primarily through a 29% payroll tax, and augmented by transfers from the Federal budget to cover
specific pension responsibilities of the Govemment. The average pension relative to the average wage
has been fairly stable since 1993 at between 35% and 40% (the OECD average is 45%). The Pension
Fund (PF) and the Ministry of Labor and Social Development (MLSD) administer the public pension
system. The PF, an autonomous public agency, collects payroll contributions and handles cash
management. The MLSD calculates entitlements and makes pension payments.
22.    The system provides universal retirement benefits through two types of pensions: labor pensions
and social pensions. Some 95% of pensioners receive a labor pension. The social pension is paid to
those with less than five years of employment when they reach age 65. In addition, there are military
pensions, and various private arrangements which are inadequately regulated. In principle benefits are
indexed quarterly, but legislation does not specify an indexation mechanism, and in practice pension
levels have not kept pace with inflation. The nornal retirement age is 60 for men and 55 for women, but
a large number of exceptions for early retirement exist: early retirees number about 12 million, or about
one out of three pensioners.
23.    Since 1995, the PF has been confronted by a deepening financial crisis, driven mainly by
revenue shortfalls. The tax base has been contracting, reflecting a steady decline in real wages and rising
unemployment, as well as shifts in worker compensation towards non-wage benefits: currently, the share



-6 -
of money wages in GDP is 25%, which is low for a transition economy. Moreover, there are significant
shortfalls in tax collection, first, as a result of inappropriate collection practices in the PF, but more
importantly because of non-compliance by large enterprises and insufficient budget transfers for
statutory federal obligations. The two latter elements have been decisive in generating arrears in pension
payments, which were Rbl 18 trillion (US$3.2 billion) by end-1996 (over 10% of the PF's payment
obligations). The imbalance between PF obligations and revenues has been aggravated by rising pension
expenditures. These are due mainly to increasing numbers of early retirees, and supplementary benefits
to particular groups (war heroes, victims of Chernobyl, etc.).
24.    As a result, and despite periodic upward revision of pensions, there has been a steady erosion of
pensions vis-a-vis subsistence needs. Today, average pensions barely equal the minimum elderly
subsistence level, and minimum pensions are around 75% of that level. Also, there has been a gradual
compression of pensions over time, as the ratio of average to minimum pensions has declined from
slightly over 2 at end-1993 to 1.2 by end-1996. The most severely affected have been the elderly on
minimum pensions and with no supplementary earnings capacity, and no access to income from family
members or other relatives.
25.   While the current crisis in the public pension system can be addressed by better collections and
compliance, it is unlikely that the system can be maintained for the longer term without causing serious
macroeconomic and labor market distortions. The aggregate pension debt will continue to grow because
the population will become older, and incomes will rise. This will exert pressures to increase tax rates to
protect the solvency of the PF, and is likely to threaten fiscal balance and affect national savings. The
Government will therefore need to look at systemic reforms involving the introduction of contributory
schemes of various kinds.
Unemployment Assistance
26.   Open unemployment has risen only gradually relative to the decline in output. This reflects low
labor shedding, as enterprises put workers on short time or administrative leave, and increasing numbers
of workers moving into the informal sector (almost 16% of the labor force in 1996). By the end of 1996
there were an estimated 6 million unemployed (ILO definition), of whom 2.6 million were officially
registered as job seekers; 2.3 million had a status of unemployed and about 2 million were receiving
benefits. Incentives to register are reduced by low benefit levels, stigma associated with unemployment,
and low level and quality of jobs registered with the Federal Employment Service (FES). Recently,
however, the share of unemployed who register has been increasing. At the same time, employment
services have reduced their active labor market programs, when faced with few placement opportunities,
especially in high unemployment areas, limiting their services to the payment of benefits.
27.   Unemployment benefits are set as a share of previous earnings, initially at 75%, and declining to
45% over a twelve month period. Eligibility depends on an earnings requirement, and people with short
or no work history receive a minimum benefit equal to the minimum wage. Average benefits are low: in
1995, some 50% of beneficiaries received benefits averaging 40% of the average wage, or some 64% of
minimum subsistence for working age adults. The remainder received a minimum benefit equal to 15%
of the adult subsistence minimum. Benefits are paid out of the Employment Fund (EF), an EBF
managed by the FES, which was recently incorporated as a Department in the MLSD. The Fund draws
its revenues from a 1.5% payroll tax, and its resources are also used for active labor market programs,
miscellaneous activities, and the FES administration. The bulk of revenues are retained at local levels.
The remainder goes to FES central administrative costs and for redistribution to deficit regions. In 1996,
EF expenditures were 0.3% of GDP.



- 7 -
28.    Since 1992, the Government has been improving the performance of local employment services,
supported in part by a Bank-funded Employment Services and Social Protection Project (L-35320).
However, the system has a number of deficiencies: (i) benefits are too low to serve as a buffer against
poverty or facilitate job changes; (ii) EF funds are inefficiently used; the bulk of revenues are retained at
local levels, which allows wealthier regions to spend the surplus on programs that often have little to do
with unemployment assistance or active programs, while the centralized portion is insufficient to
adequately support deficit regions; (iii) the federal reallocation mechanism fails to prioritize adequately
among poor regions; (iv) benefit eligibility is lenient: formal joblessness is a sufficient contingency to
receive at least the minimum benefit; and (v) while the number of long term unemployed is growing,
measures to address their special reinsertion needs are underdeveloped.
Social Assistance
29.    In Russia, the financing and provision of social assistance has been left almost entirely to the
regions and local authorities. The federal government (through the MLSD) provides support mainly in
the form of social services to traditional categories of needy, essentially the disabled and elderly. Local
programs appear to be extensive and in the wealthiest areas comprise cash transfers as well as in-kind
benefits. However, in other areas, collapse of the revenue base has precluded provision of even basic
social services. A combination of categorical and income-based criteria are used to deterrnine need.
30.    The system suffers from three major shortcomings. First, assistance is badly focused: there are a
large number of criteria under which help can be given, but they vary and there is much overlap between
categories; provision appears to be administered unevenly across jurisdictions; and there is no systematic
approach to bringing deserving households into the safety net. Second, there is a shortage of funding,
resulting in irregular provision of assistance, especially in poorer regions. Third, there is need for
national policy and federal backstopping: the central government has an important role to play in
providing guidelines for assistance and general oversight of the provision and outcomes of social
programs; and, given the magnitude of economic restructuring and associated fiscal shocks in many
regions, federal support is necessary. Although the federal government has introduced an equalization
mechanism to channel budget support to deficit regions, this has not been successful in alleviating
regional disparities.
ChildAllowances
31.    Child allowances (which amount to about 1% of GDP) are a critical source of income support to
the poor. It is the only national program that reaches the working poor and families with children, both
groups for whom poverty incidence is high. While the objective of child allowances to date has been to
support all families with children, rather than provide poverty relief, the incidence of poverty is higher
among households with children, and child allowances can therefore provide a useful instrument for
reducing poverty for families.
32.    At present, child allowances suffer from a number of problems: (i) the benefit is untargeted; (ii)
uptake is low, with only 50-60% of eligible children receiving the benefit, and only 40% of children in
families in the lowest income decile; and (iii) benefit delivery is irregular across regions, resulting
in arrears which on a cumulative basis amounted to more than Rbl. 13 trillion as of early 1997.
Financing of the child allowances is opaque. In theory, the benefit is co-financed by the federal and local
budgets. However, the specific federal allocation for child allowances is not explicitly identified in the
block grant provided to regions for all items co-financed by the federal budget. This means that in



- 8 -
practice, it is difficult to identify whether sequestration of federal transfers, inadequate pass-through of
federal revenues to child allowances on the local level, or lack of local financing, or some combination
of the above or other factors, is responsible for arrears.
Social Insurance
33.    Sickness and maternity benefits are paid out of the Social Insurance Fund (SIF), an extra-
budgetary agency, which derives its revenues from a 4.3% employer payroll contribution. It has
regularly been running a surplus.  Benefits are administered by committee (the local SIF, local
authorities, employers, employees). A person is eligible for sick pay the moment a contract of
employment is signed; the duration is usually until recovery or until eligibility for disability pension is
established. The benefit level is 100% of the individual's wage. The maternity benefit consists of a one-
time grant of three times the minimum wage, and a continuing benefit equal to the woman's wage for
140 days. There is also a 3 year job retention guarantee. A significant share of SIF expenditures are
generated by miscellaneous programs, essentially rest and recreation programs.
IV. GOVERNMENT SOCIAL PROTECTION REFORM PROGRAM
GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
34.    Since the elections in 1996, and especially since the formation of the new government earlier
this year, the Government has become very concerned about social protection issues. This reflects the
high political and social costs of arrears in social payments, especially pensions, brought on by fiscal
pressures, as well as a growing realization that existing income transfer programs, even if fully funded,
do not reach important vulnerable groups. The Government's strategy is articulated in the Program of
Social Reforms 1996-2000, approved by the Government in February 1997, and in President Yeltsin's
address to the Federal Assembly in March 1997.
35.    At the same time, new appointments have been made at high levels of the Government of
individuals with credible track records of social reform in the regions, a favorable popular image and
proven capacity to muster support for difficult decisions. In addition, several other appointments have
been made which greatly strengthen the cadre of reformers working on social sector issues. These
changes have brought new momentum and energy to the reform program in the social sectors.
36.    The Government's social protection strategy focuses on:
* Creating an efficient pension system, in line with modern western practice that would be
financially viable and provide adequate social protection to the poorest groups;
* Providing economically efficient employment opportunities, while improving labor force
productivity and labor market flexibility;
* Reallocating public (federal and sub-federal) financial resources devoted to social protection
so as to increasingly target income support to needy households; and
* Clearly delineating of responsibility for social issues at the federal, regional and local levels.



9-
37.   The first step in this strategy entails the establishment of a new legal framework for social
protection, and the next few months will see an intensification in the introduction of such new
legislation. In parallel, the Government will be introducing changes through the 1998 budget process,
and taking steps to reform the institutions involved at the federal level.
38.   Over the past few months, the Government has launched a number of new initiatives which,
supported by this operation, will amount to a major and far-reaching reform of the whole social
protection system. These reforms focus on improving the poverty impact and targeting of existing
transfer programs, and at institutional reforms aimed at making such programs sustainable and efficient.
These initiatives are outlined in the relevant paragraphs below. In addition, the Government has taken
important steps which improve the environment for social policy reform, notably:
*  the introduction of measures to strengthen tax collection, including better reporting
obligations for banks and enterprises;
*  public initiatives to enforce tax payment compliance of large companies, especially the so-
called natural monopolies;
*  housing and utilities reform, with a particular focus on protecting poor households as
subsidies are reduced; and
*  improvements in the system of inter-budgetary transfers, which are especially important for
social programs and child allowances.
Pensions
39.   Systemic Pension Refornm  The Government's pension reform strategy is to introduce as soon as
possible a three-tier system. Already, it has introduced draft legislation for the establishment and
regulation of private voluntary pensions, in line with Bank recommendations. This legislation on
providing an appropriate operating framework introducing predictable pension rules, protection for
pension plan participants, and rules governing investment behavior to ensure pension assets are used for
the sole and exclusive benefit of plan participants. (For a detailed description, see Annex 5: Systemic
Pension Reform in the Russian Federation). The Government's pension reform strategy would involve
the following:
(i)    A first tier with one or more publicly financed programs to provide minimum income
security and protection against poverty for the elderly. The first tier probably would have
the following features: (a) a relatively large "flat" benefit paid to mostlall elderly or
disabled, and probably conditioned on labor force attachment, that is designed to sustain
the current population of elderly (and disabled) and those who will be retiring over a
transition period that could range from 10 to 30 years; and (b) back-up means-tested
benefits, for those whose work histories do not qualify them for a full labor-based
payment and who otherwise lack adequate income.
(ii)    A second tier with one or more mandatory earnings-related programs, which in turn
would be fully or at least partly capitalized. Ideally, this second level should consist of:
(a) for (at least) younger workers, a mandatory system of funded, earnings-related,
pensions using the individual account approach during the capital accumulation phase;



- 10-
and (b) possibly for older workers, an eamings-related add-on to the flat benefit financed
out of current taxes.
(iii)   A third tier with one or more voluntary earnings-related pension regimes, which in the
long run should be fully capitalized. There may be up to four major variants, the
common feature of which is that they are not universal, but rather are products of
employer decisions about compensation and/or individual choice. The four major
variants under consideration are: (a) universally available private pension funds; (b)
special purpose early retirement schemes; (c) other (not just early retirement) "defined
benefit" pension schemes; and (d) special public sector schemes at the municipal, oblast,
and federal levels, some of which will be capitalized and some of which may depend on
current tax resources.
40.    The underlying objectives for systemic reform  would be to provide income security and
protection against poverty in old age; reduction in high payroll taxes with their negative effects on
compliance and labor markets; reduction of the burden of pensions on public finance; and provision of
mechanisms for increasing private savings. To underpin the reform process, the Government will prepare
a "White Paper" on systemic pension reform. The "White Paper" will analyze in detail the various
options for pension reform, explain the reasons for the choices made, and spell out the requirements for
implementation of systemic reform, including fiscal requirements for transition to a system with a
funded component. The "White Paper" would provide the basis for legislation that contains workable
and mutually consistent proposals supporting the objectives of pension reform. To publicize and seek
widespread support for the reform program, the Government intends to undertake an extensive public
relations campaign. The Government is seeking extensive Bank technical assistance lending to develop
the reform and the related public relations campaign, and the Bank is in the process of setting up such an
assistance program (see Annex 8).
41.   Minimum Pensions. While this long-term systemic reforn is being introduced, the Government
plans to make important interim changes in the current PAYG system to ensure its financial and
institutional viability, and ensure adequate protection of the poorest pensioners by ensuring a minimum
pension floor at an affordable level. These are elderly, especially women, living alone. It has issued a
presidential decree providing that: (a) the pension floor will be maintained at a level not less than 80% of
the federal Minimum Elderly Subsistence Income (MESI); (b) this pension floor will be adjusted
quarterly when cumulative monthly inflation, as measured by the official Consumer Price Index, over the
quarter exceeds 6%; (c) total expenditures of the Pension Fund will remain within Pension Fund
revenues. This third condition will ensure that the minimum pension provision is fiscally neutral. To
ensure that resources are available to maintain the pension floor, an allocation would be made annually
in the PF budget, based on the previous twelve months' inflation. A first such allocation would be made
in the 1998 PF budget. In the event that the financial requirements of maintaining the pension floor start
to exhaust available Pension Fund revenues, the policy would be to compress the pension structure; and
only if this were to result in actually reducing nominal pensions, would the floor be lowered. Currently,
the minimum pension is at 76% of MESI. An immediate adjustment of the pension floor is estimated to
cost about $250 million for the remainder of 1997. Therefore, in order to avoid excessive fiscal
pressures in the second half of 1997, the decree would be applied starting only January 1, 1998. At that
time, an adjustment to the 80% level would be made, drawing on the PF adjustment allocation.
42.    Pension Arrears.  Following social protests earlier this year, the Government intends to
eliminate pension arrears and prevent their recurrence; it has drawn up a month-by-month program to
eliminate pension arrears by end-June and so far is on schedule. To ensure that new arrears do not arise,



it intends to strengthen PF revenues, both through the introduction of better collection practices and
stricter enforcement of compliance by large enterprises, and through expansion of the revenue base; it
will ensure that sufficient allocations are made in the 1998 federal budget to meet its own statutory
obligations to the Pension Fund. The sources of such measures will be reflected in the PF's ability to
maintain balance. Already, legislation has been passed extending payroll tax obligations to non-wage
benefits. Measures under the new tax code, currently in the Duma, include a one percentage point VAT
allocation to the PF, as well as a reduction in special tax privileges of enterprises; and a 1% share of the
payroll tax will be transferred from the Social Insurance Fund (SIF) to the PF, as the operations of the
former are rationalized. To strengthen overall financial management and transparency in the PF, the
Government intends to introduce annual audits of the PF carried out to international standards to
determine the adequacy of financial information and financial reporting, and of internal control systems.
The first audit, which would focus on 1996, would take place over the coming eight to twelve month
period. It will be supported by Bank technical assistance.
43.    Beyond these measures, the Government has initiated measures to reduce expenditure
requirements of the PF: legislation has been prepared to reduce the pensions of working pensioners and
shift financial obligations for early retirement pensions to enterprise-and sector-funded schemes.
Unemployment Assistance
44.    Government policy aims at ensuring benefit provision for all laid-off workers and facilitating re-
entry into employment status; and at the establishment of a new labor code suited for a market economy.
In that framework, Government has already initiated a number of actions and is preparing others:
45.   Benefits.  Draft legislation has been introduced in the Duma to raise the minimum
unemployment benefit to 20% of regional subsistence, plus 10% for each dependent, with the total
supplement not to exceed 30% of regional subsistence. At the same time, the Government has
introduced draft legislation to restrict benefit eligibility and duration of benefit payment for job seekers
refusing to participate in active placement, for first-time job seekers, for those with no work history, for
part-time workers, and for workers dismissed for disciplinary reasons; and over the next six months it
intends to introduce legislation aimed at compressing the benefit scale, which currently is relatively
generous with replacement at entry of 75% for the first four months of unemployment gradually falling
to 45% of replacement. These measures will, first, better target the unemployment benefits on active
labor market participants, and, second, allow the increased costs of higher minimum benefits to be
absorbed.
46.    Centralization. With pockets of high unemployment in many regions, the centralization of EF
funds for equalization purposes is important to ensure that all qualified recipients have access to benefits.
The 1997 EF budget currently in the Duma, includes centralization of 20% of revenues. For the 1998 EF
budget, the Government envisages increasing the centralized portion of the EF to 30%. Centralization at
the 20% level is estimated to be sufficient to ensure payments of benefits nationally at current
unemployment levels. The further increase in 1998 would allow introduction of high priority active
programs, including targeted public works schemes in depressed areas. For equalization purposes, the
Government is developing an allocation formula that would better guide the distribution of centralized
resources according to regional need.
47.   Active Programs.  The Government is also evaluating and developing its active programs
(assessment, counseling, job search, placement, training and re-training) with Bank assistance through
the Employment Services and Social Protection Loan, with a view to applying such programs selectively



- 12-
in areas where job placement is most possible. Moreover, with the gradual rise in long-term unemployed
-- those without a job for over a year -- the Government realizes that its programs to meet the specific
needs of the long-term unemployed need to be reviewed, and is seeking Bank support for this under the
proposed SPIL.
48.   Audits. The Government intends to introduce annual monitoring and evaluation of the coverage
and efficiency of all EF benefits through the MLSD, with a first evaluation to be issued in mid- 1998. To
further improve EF resource use, the Government will introduce annual audits of the EF, according to
international auditing standards. The first audit will take place this year. It will cover 1996 and focus on
the adequacy of local employment activities, as well as include an evaluation of financial flows and
financial reporting practices, and internal control systems. It is expected to be completed by mid-1998.
49.   Labor code. The Government intends to draft a new labor code within the next half year, aimed
at reducing regulations which aggravate labor market rigidities, and introducing flexibility and mobility
in the labor market, legally regulate hiring and firing practices, and provide for employer-employee
relations and worker protection appropriate for a market economy. Already, a working group has been
convened under the auspices of the Government's Social Policy Reform Program to draft a new code and
a package of related labor laws and draft legislation. The group is already active and has contributed to
the preparation of a component of the SPIL.
SocialAssistance
50.   The federal government recognizes the need for a poverty benefit of last resort to ensure
subsistence for the most vulnerable population groups. While responsibility for such a benefit has been
shifted to regional levels as part of administrative decentralization, the need for national policy and
federal backstopping is evident: the central government has an important role to play in providing
guidelines for assistance and general oversight of the provision and outcomes of social programs; and,
given the magnitude of economic restructuring required in some regions and the associated local fiscal
shocks, federal support for social expenditures is necessary. So far, the federal government has
introduced an equalization mechanism to channel budget support in the form of block grants to deficit
regions. In practice, however, this mechanism has not been successful in alleviating regional disparities,
nor has it enabled regions to provide targeted support to the neediest population groups.  The
Government has proposed a national poverty benefit to be financed under a cost sharing formula, but this
has been rejected by the Duma. As an initial step towards developing a national plan, it intends to
proceed with pilot programs of social assistance to inform the design and cost implications of a
consistent national scheme.
51.   Pilot Programs. Currently, the Government is considering federally supported means-tested
social assistance targeted at the poorest households. Local experiments in means-testing of social
assistance do occur, and the Government wants to assess which means-testing methodologies would have
low errors of excluding the poor (errors of exclusion) and of making payments to the non-poor (errors of
inclusion or leakage). This would enable the Government to have establish a national standard for
means-testing. This standard would be applied ultimately for all targeted benefits (such as housing
allowances, local social assistance, and possibly a minimum pension if the Government was to introduce
a targeted social assistance pension). In this context, the Government is initiating a series of pilot
programs in collaboration with the governments of three regions (Komi, Volgograd and Voronezh). The
regions have been selected with a view to their poverty levels being close to the national average. In
each region, a particular approach to means-testing would be applied, over a period of about twelve
months, by local social assistance offices. The pilots would be evaluated as to cost and targeting



* 13 -
efficacy. The pilots would be co-financed by the Bank (through the ESSP and the SPIL), the federal
government and the regional governments. The Government has recently authorized the Ministry of
Finance to allocate the necessary federal funds for the pilots. The exact amount of federal funding will
be determined as a function of the regions' co-financing proposals. (The pilots are described in greater
detail in Annex 6.)
52.    Rationalization of beneflts. With many different programs and benefits in a cash and kind
offered under the heading of social assistance by federal, regional and local authorities, the Government
intends to undertake a comprehensive review of them over the next six months, in order to develop
recommendations on greater program coordination and coherence.
Child Allowances
53.    Child allowances are important because, as indicated earlier, they are the most effective
instrument in the present array of income support measures in alleviating poverty, especially among the
working poor and families with children, both groups where poverty incidence is high.  The
Government's strategy is to move away from the universal child benefit and allow the introduction of a
means-tested benefit for poor families. As a first step, the Government is introducing legislation that
would authorize regions to introduce means-testing on a voluntary basis. In the short run, there is little
scope for the introduction of means-testing due to the limited experience in Russia with means-testing.
Still, in some regions capacity to use means-testing is already relatively advanced, and local authorities
could move quickly to implement the now legislative guidelines. In other regions capacity still needs to
be developed, and a program to support the introduction of means-testing will be needed. (Models are
being tested under the social assistance pilots described above, and these are expected to provide a
national standard for means-testing that can also be applied to targeting child benefits.) Furthermore, the
Government has already taken steps to shift the responsibility for administration of child allowances
from enterprises to local social assistance offices. Not only is this a more rational system, but where it
has been piloted, there have been significant cost savings due to the elimination of duplicate payments.
54.    With a universal benefit increasingly unaffordable and extensive means-testing still essentially a
model for the future, the Government has recently decided to propose a federal guarantee for child
allowances through the age of three as an affordable interim measure targeted at a particularly vulnerable
age group. (Budget constraints prevent the proposal of such a guarantee for older children at this time).
It is proceeding to introduce legislation to this effect in the Duma. The guarantee will be covered jointly
by federal transfers and local budget contributions. To monitor payment of the guaranteed benefit and
increase the transparency of the child allowance system, the Government intends to introduce in
connection with the draft 1998 federal budget a new monthly reporting system accessible to the public,
which will provide information on payout of benefits, number of beneficiaries and any arrears, as well as
information that will allow determination of the source of the arrears (either from inadequate federal or
regional budget allocations). It is expected that public availability of such information will encourage
more rigor in the payment of child benefits as a priority item.
Social Insurance Fund
55.    The Government has established an interdepartmental working group to examine the options for
reform of the Social Insurance Fund, including a comprehensive assessment of all SIF-financed benefits:
sickness and maternity benefits, spa and sanatoria vouchers, recreation camps and funeral benefits. That
review, which is expected to be completed over the next year, focus on the future role of the SIF. It will



- 14 -
in particular consider limiting SIF benefit provision to sickness and maternity benefits, and on
redesigning sickness benefits and maternity leave policy. Already, in order to reduce misuse of the
sickness benefit, the Government has introduced draft legislation to limit the level of the monthly
sickness benefit to a maximum of 12 times the minimum wage; and within the next six months, it
expects to introduce legislation requiring that the employer pays at least part of the number of days of
paid sick leave and/or capping the employer's responsibility as a share of the payroll. Its review of
matemity leave policy will focus on the effects of current policy on women's employment opportunities.
Gender Aspects
56.   The analysis of poverty in Russia does not suggest much gender differentiation in poverty, and
single-parent female headed households are no more likely to be poor than other types of households
with children. Still, women are vulnerable to be poor: pensioners living alone, nearly all of whom are
women, are especially vulnerable to poverty; and women have more limited work opportunities, with
over half of the registered unemployed being women.
57.   The SPAL addresses gender issues implicitly in several ways:
*   Targeting child allowances better and improving their delivery helps women, because of
their role as the ,main child care givers;
*   Defending the pension floor benefits women predominantly;
*   The social assistance pilot schemes will provide important feedback on gender aspects
through monitoring and beneficiary assessments undertaken by the Government;
*   Targeting minimum unemployment benefit better will disproportionately help women;
*   Maternity benefits will be rationalized.
V.   THE PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
58.   The proposed SPAL would support the Government Social Protection Reform Program in order
to gradually develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief to meet the needs of a
market economy. It would also support efforts to reduce the adverse effects of transition on the poor
and vulnerable population groups. The key areas covered by the SPAL are social insurance (including
pensions and short-term insurance for sickness and maternity), unemployment assistance, social
assistance and child allowances. It will pursue poverty alleviation by raising and protecting minimum
benefits, and through better targeting. It will help establish a viable social safety net by introducing
structural reforms in pensions and welfare programs. In order to help safeguard the Government's
macroeconomic stabilization targets, the SPAL will emphasize efficiency improvements in the safety net
programs and the reallocation of resources within existing programs towards needy groups, without
increasing public expenditures, as severe fiscal constraints prevent the Government from undertaking
reallocations from other sectors in the short term. Preparation has been a collaborative effort between
the Russian authorities and the Bank. The process has been led by an Interministerial Steering
Committee headed by the Minister of Economy, and has involved key ministries and agencies in the
relevant social areas. The SPAL has also benefited from extensive sector work and discussions with



- 15 -
policymakers and independent Russian experts.2 The proposed reforms will represent major changes in
the system of social protection and income transfers, and are expected to have a significant impact on
alleviating poverty and stabilizing incomes among vulnerable groups, and prepare for more targeted
safety net interventions in the future.
59.   Relationship to the CAS. The Country Assistance Strategy for Russia, discussed by the Board
on June 5, 1997, emphasizes a lending program aimed at supporting structural reforms for economic
growth and sectoral development, through adjustment operations, including both SALs and SECALs, if
there appears to be substantial progress on a critical mass of structural reforms and a clear Government
commitment to their effective implementation. In the social sectors, the CAS aims at helping the
Government develop cost-effective and affordable social protection programs and social services adapted
to the needs of transition and the longer term. Specifically, the proposed SPAL would support the more
effective use of constrained fiscal resources for poverty alleviation, and would set the basis for
institutional reforms, including a clearer relationship between federal and regional authorities as
concerns their responsibilities for social protection. The SPAL would facilitate follow-up lending and
technical cooperation, especially in pensions and social assistance, where structural changes that the
SPAL is intended to initiate would be further pursued.
60.   Relationship to other External Assistance. The proposed SPAL is closely coordinated with the
IMF's Extended Fund Facility, which includes structural benchmarks on social policy as part of its
package of conditionalities. The IMF Fiscal Affairs Department has recently prepared a report on
strengthening revenue collection in the Pension Fund, whose findings have been helpful in the design of
the SPAL program. In addition to the Bank and the IMF, the Government and, independently, a large
number of oblasts are receiving advice and assistance from a number of multi- and bilateral sources. The
Bank has taken steps to include and complement these initiatives as much as possible in the SPAL.
Notably, the SPAL is expected to draw on the support from EU/TACIS, the European Union agency for
assistance to the FSU countries, which is mounting an important effort in social protection, especially the
implementation of improvements in pension and welfare administration.
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
61.    The proposed SPAL of US$800 million will be released in three tranches, the first of US$300
million upon effectiveness (expected July 1997); the second of US$250 million on fulfillment of second
tranche conditions as outlined below and in Annex 2 (expected December, 1997) and the third of
US$250 million on fulfillment of third tranche conditions (expected June, 1998).
62.   In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be
linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. Disbursements of
the Loan will be subject to a standard negative list of ineligible goods and countries of origin. The
Government has indicated that the counterpart funds will be used to provide support for the social
protection restructuring program and specifically pension and wage arrears. Upon notification by the
Bank of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank into the
Deposit Account in the Central Bank at the Government's request. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or
goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require the Government to either (a) return
2 Sector work includes Russia: Social Protection During Transition and Beyond (World bank, 1994) and Poverty in
Russia: An Assessment (World Bank, 1995).



- 16-
that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in
which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. Although routine audits
of the Deposit Account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time. The
expected closing date of the proposed loan will be December 31, 1998.
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
63.   Monitoring of SPAL activities beyond supervising the implementation of SPAL conditionalities
principally refers to the appropriate use of the federal transfers in the pilot schemes and the payment of
child allowances, as well as to poverty monitoring and program participation. Progress on the SPAL
tranche conditions will be supported and maintained through technical assistance and studies in the
framework of the Portfolio Development Loan, the Employment Services and Social Protection Loan,
and the proposed SPIL.
64.   Federal transfers. Under the SPAL, the relevant federal transfers for child allowances and
social assistance will become subject to a new federal monitoring system, which traces expenditures
down to and including local levels. At the same time, the system will allow the tracking of the adequacy
of local contributions to these programs.
65.   Poverty monitoring and program participation. In connection with the social assistance pilot
programs, household surveys of income and program participation, including local variation in the
availability of social services and social assistance, will be undertaken in the pilot regions. They will
also allow determination of participation (and changes in participation) in the child allowance program in
the pilot regions. These surveys are expected to become prototypes for an expansion to the national level
of income and program participation surveying, which would complement the standard national
household expenditure survey.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
66.   The proposed SPAL is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact and as a result it
has been rated a Category C project.
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
INSTITUTIONAL BENEFITS
67.   The initiatives introduced under the proposed SPAL and supported by it and by related technical
assistance address the inefficiencies of the previous system of social protection and are expected to be
determinant in reshaping them to meet the needs of a market economy and lay a solid foundation on
which Russia can build a pension and welfare system that corresponds to its needs. The initiatives will
achieve the following:
*   while the difficult fiscal and financial situation precludes large increases in benefit
payments, higher pensions and regular pension payments will be secured for some 4 million
of the poorest pensioners, and minimum unemployment benefits will be set at a level which
will allow a somewhat better standard of living for the unemployed;
*   the current US$27 billion/year (5.5% of GDP) pension system will be stabilized: arrears
will be drawn down and eliminated, the revenue base of the PF strengthened, and the



- 17 -
process towards better financial management of the PF, which is a longer term process, will
have been set underway through better collection procedures and through a gradual audit of
the PF;
*   systemic pension reform will be well underway: voluntary pension legislation will have
been enacted, and the process of enacting legislation for systemic reform will have reached
the legislature; supported by a strong public campaign to explain the tradeoffs;
*   the unemployment benefit system will have been restructured, making it a targeted system
providing benefits for all eligible laid-off workers, and delivering active services in an
appropriate labor market context (i.e. where programs lead to jobs or job opportunities);
*   the labor code will have been revised to provide a market-oriented framework for employer-
employee relations;
*   the US$2.8 billion/year (1% of GDP) child allowance program will be undergoing complete
restructuring towards an affordable, poverty-targeted, means-tested program;
*   the US$3.5 billion (1.25% of GDP) program of social insurance short-term benefits will
have been restructured and reduced, focusing exclusively on sickness and matemity
benefits; and
*   streamlining of social assistance will be underway.
THE IMPACT ON POVERTY
68.    The policy reforms proposed under the SPAL will serve to raise and stabilize incomes of the
poor and strengthen social safety nets over the medium term. These programs, taken together, will
improve the lives of over 15 million people over the medium and longer term. However, eliminating
poverty in Russia will ultimately have to come through restoring economic growth to generate job
opportunities at higher real wages, coupled with strengthening investment in health and education
services. The structural changes in the different programs will provide Russia with a social safety net
that will be well targeted toward vulnerable groups beyond transition.
69.    The different programs will have the following impact (see Annex 7 for details):
* Approximately 12 million pensioners receive the minimum pension. The SPAL will
establish a floor for pensions equal to 80% of subsistence income and introduce new
automatic indexation of this floor, beginning in 1998. As a result, the poorest pensioners
will have incomes protected from inflation and delivered regularly. Altogether, an estimated
4 million pensioners would see their living standards improved.
* Only 0.6% of households are receiving unemployment benefits. Hence, the poverty impact
of increasing them would be modest. Around 2.4 million people are registered as
unemployed, and about 1.5 million of these receive the minimum benefit. The increase is
from 15% to roughly 20% of subsistence, plus 10% of subsistence for each dependent family
member (and with a total benefit ceiling of 30% of subsistence). Although the marginal
increase in their incomes will not lift many poor unemployed out of poverty, the targeting of
benefits to those unemployed families with dependents will help to reallocate resources
towards the neediest. On average there are 1.5 dependents per unemployed individual, and



- 18-
approximately four-fifths of the unemployed have dependents. Benefits in these households
will average 40% of subsistence income, nearly tripling their current level of unemployment
benefits, and targeting them to those most in need. An estimated 240,000 unemployed
would be favorably affected; most of them would be living in households that are classified
as very poor, i.e., at least 50% below subsistence minimum.
*  In child allowances, the medium-term  SPAL emphasis is on improving targeting and
gradually introducing means testing. In the short term, responding to the budget crisis that is
felt at both federal and regional levels, the emphasis will be on providing support for young
families with children in the critical age group 0-3. As means-testing develops, the provision
of child allowances will become increasingly poverty focused and potentially serve as the
most effective instrument for reducing poverty, since the highest incidence of poverty is to
be found among Russia's 25 million children.
*  The initial poverty impact under the social assistance pilot programs will be restricted
geographically to three oblasts, and further targeted towards the "poorest of the poor" in
these areas, thus affecting potentially less than I % of Russia's total population. However,
the pilots will provide invaluable information about targeting, which will be used to expand
the program to the national level. Although expansion may take a number of years as local
capacity is developed, it will eventually alleviate poverty in Russia in an efficient and
targeted manner.
POLITICAL RISKS
70.   Commitment to the SPAL agenda has been growing and there is now a broad domestic
constituency supporting proposed reforms. But there remain significant political risks that need to be
recognized. The main ones relate to pension reform and the need to secure parliamentary approvalfor
each of the major legislative initiatives for reform.
71.   Pension reform. While there appears to be consensus about the need for pension reform, and the
Government is committed to reaching closure on the design of the reforrn by second tranche, it is not
certain that such agreement will be reached, even within the Government. Nor, while likely, is it certain
that the final shape of the Government's long-tern reform policy for pensions will be of a kind that the
Bank can endorse. To mitigate these risks, the Government will be working closely with Bank staff, and
drawing on expertise financed by the Bank, and evidently appreciates, because of recent experience with
arrears accumulation, that the existing system must be radically reformed as quickly as possible.
Furthermore, most of the competing views on reform in Russia turn on such issues as how quickly, and
under what conditions, Russia could move towards a funded pension system, on which there would be
many different possible outcomes which the Bank could support.
72.   Legislation. In several areas, reforms will require new legislation. This relates, in particular, to
establishing protected minimum benefit levels, balancing the budgets of the social extra-budgetary funds,
and systemic pension reform. The likely timing of submission of draft laws to Parliament and their
adoption vary. Legislation to restructure the unemployment benefit system has already been submitted,
and its adoption could serve as an appropriate first tranche condition. However, in several other areas,
such as restructuring the pension fund and targeting of child allowances, drafting the legislation is only
now beginning. In the case of the systemic pension reform, drafting of legislation can only be started
once the Government's own position has been decided. The risks are high that, even if the Government



- 19-
reaches a satisfactory conclusion on pension reforn, the Duma will wish to modify it significantly. On
the other hand, postponing Bank support for such reform to a later operation would risk loss of time and
momentum, at ajuncture when the commitment to reform appears especially favorable. In addition, the
Government will be undertaking, with Bank assistance, a substantial public education program to create
a favorable climate for reform.
INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRAINTS
73.    Even with the adoption of appropriate policies and with stakeholder support, reforms can only
succeed if there is a well-functioning administration that is able effectively to implement government
policy and provide the necessary feedback into the policymaking process to ensure its relevance. In
Russia, the issue of a well-functioning administration is present at two levels -- the unclear delineation of
federal and sub-federal governmental responsibilities, and the ability of the central government
administration to fully perform its functions.
74.    The institutional constraints are an explicit element of the Bank's assistance strategy and are
being addressed through the institutional changes that the SPAL is supporting, as well as the SPIL, which
will emphasize administration and staff training to ensure adequate implementation of policies, as well as
complementarity with non-governmental organizations. Fiscal federal responsibilities will be redesigned
to provide appropriate support in the crucial areas of social assistance and child allowances. Full
institutional transformation (particularly when existing institutions have largely functioned as
implementation agencies) cannot be achieved overnight. This is a focused start that will be pursued
under future projects that are expected to build on the SPAL and expand its policy and institutional
changes, including the proposed SPIL.
VII.   SUPPORT FOR SPAL IMPLEMENTATION
75.   Implementation of the SPAL program will be supported through reprogramming of funds from
existing Bank operations, trust funds for project preparation, and a proposed companion TA loan, the
Social Protection Implementation Loan. The activities and sources of finance are:
* Reprogramming existing loans: At the request of the Government, and in order to ensure
timely execution of the activities, funds will be reprogrammed from: (i) the Portfolio
Development Loan, to finance work on individual pension accounts, pension modeling and
regulatory issues in private pension schemes and, to assist in improving the efficiency of EF
expenditures; and (ii) the Employment Services and Social Protection Project, to expand
computerization of pension delivery, finance piloting of computerized social assistance, and
assess the role of public works schemes in poverty alleviation;
*  PHRD Grants:  Two PHRD grants of US$ 60,000 (Bank executed) and US$ 442,300
(Government executed) have been approved. These will finance a series of workshops
involving Government officials and international experts on specific aspects of pension
reform. The workshops will help support the Government's design of its systemic pension
reforms, and continue to build a constituency for reform among legislators and other policy
makers. In addition, the grants will finance training and capacity building in regions where
the social assistance pilots are to be implemented, to improve their poverty reduction impact;



- 20 -
* Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL): The proposed loan (of around US$ 25
million) is being designed specifically to support the longer-term needs of the SPAL, and is
expected to be presented to the Board in August. It will finance: (i) technical assistance to
support implementation of pension reform, including design of the legal and regulatory
framework for private pensions, computerization of benefit payment, and introduction of
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms; (ii) audit implementation, and capacity building to
carry out future audits of social expenditures to international standards; (iii) evaluation of
social assistance pilots, dissemination of findings, and roll-out of best practices; (iv) support
in drafting a new Labor Code and evaluation of active labor market programs; (v) national
surveys of income and social assistance program participation; and (vi) assessment of
regional social assistance programs.
76.   The complexity of the program will place significant demands on the Bank's own support
through supervision and related non-lending services.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
77.   1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1997



- 21 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MOSCOW
June 5, 1997
1818n-n2
Dear M:r. Wolfensohn,
I am hereby honored to inform you about the approval of thc
olitcomes of the Negotiations on the Social Protection Adjustmncnt oan
towards financing the adjtistment of social protcction systcnm, that have been
reflected in the draft Loan Agreement and Minutes of thc Ncgotiatinns dated
April 29. 1997 agred between the dclcptions of the Russian Fcderation and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
During the Negotiations, a prelininy understanding has been
reached about reallocation of funds under this loan between its individual
tranches as follows: tranche I - $ 300 million, tranclic 2 - $ 300 million,
tranche 3 - S 200 million. I would requcst you to explore the possibility for
such rcallocation of loan funds.
Also, enclosed please find, as has been agreed, a letter outlining
policies ot the Government of the Russian Fcdcration in the arca of social
protection.
Encl.: on 5 pages.
First DepuLty Chairman
of the Goveriment of the Russian Federation         A.Chubais
To: PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Mr. JAMES WOLFENSOHN
Washington, DC, llSA



- 22 -
ON THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION GOVERNMENT POLICY
IN SOCIAL PROTECTION
1.    Introduction
Falling output and economic dislocation have resulted in a serious reduction of real incomes of
large groups of the population of Russia, emergence of open unemployment, accumulation of wage and
pension arrears, as well as reduction of budgetary allocations on the development of education, health
care, science and culture. Income distribution patterns have changed dramatically, and new groups have
entered poverty. On the whole, the problem of poverty is characterized by considerable inter-regional
differentiation. Measures aimed at addressing these emerging issues are currently in the focus of
attention of the Government of the Russian Federation.
2.     Basic principles of social policy reform
Over the past year the Govemnment of the Russian Federation has made a number of steps aimed
at ensuring stability in the social sector. In February 1997 the Government adopted the Program of Social
Reforms in the Russian Federation for a period of up to the year of 2000. The Program envisages a broad
plan of actions to be taken in the social sector. In his March 1997 Address to the Federal Assembly the
President of the Russian Federation has formulated strategic objectives of reforming the social sector.
In the period of up to the year of 2000, the Government will focus its efforts at the following
directions:
* achieving a noticeable improvement in the material conditions and living standards of the
population;
* re-orientation of social policy to focus on the family, provision of rights and social
guarantees to the family, women, children and youth;
* provision of social assistance to the needy based on targeting;
D increasing the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources in the social sector;
* creation of an efficient pension system that would combine financial sustainability with an
adequate level of social assistance to the population group in question;
* ensuring effective employment of the population, improving the quality and competitiveness
of labor resources;
* prevention of chronic unemployment in the process of structural reforms in the economy,
and creation of new jobs;
* clear delineation of authority and responsibilities for resolving social issues between the
federal level, the level of the subjects of the Federation, and the local level.
The Government of the Russian Federation has developed and is initiating the implementation of
a package of measures aimed at structural reforms of social protection, including rationalization of social
expenditures reflecting actual needs of individual population groups and fiscal capacity of regions, as
well as increasing sustainability of state social extra-budgetary funds and efficiency of resource use.
Since attaining these objectives requires, first and foremost, a renewal of the legislative
framework, the Government of the Russian Federation intends to make an active use of its right to
introduce legislative initiatives in accordance with the above priorities.



- 23 -
3.    Pensions
Thus far the Government's efforts to reform the pension system have been focused on the
strengthening of the revenue base of the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation, improving the
procedures of collection of insurance contributions, and maintaining the minimum pension payment for
socially vulnerable pensioners. The Government has adopted a program to monitor and eliminate pension
arrears.
A mechanism is being developed to adjust pension payments with a view of supporting the
minimum pension payment while ensuring a balanced Pension Fund budget.
The Government intends to pay a special attention to the issue of increasing the efficiency of
Pension Fund operations and eliminating the existing shortcomings. It is also envisaged to introduce
annual audits of the Pension Fund in accordance with international auditing standards, the results of
which will be in the public domain.
Simultaneously, energetic efforts will be taken to develop and implement basic principles of a
systemic pension reform. The concept of the pension reform stipulates creation of a tree-tier system
whereby there would be a publicly-funded social (basic) pension which would be paid regardless of the
work tenure or premiums paid. Mandatory pension insurance would be formed on an earnings-related
basis with partial or complete use of the funded principle. A system of voluntary non-state pensions
would be fully funded; strong guarantees would be provided to ensure its financial sustainability.
Under this arrangement there would be a guaranteed pension level for the elderly, insurance
contribution rates would be reduced, pension-related burden on public finance would be lessened, and
mechanisms would be created to increase pension savings by the population.
The Government of the Russian Federation has submitted to the Federal Assembly draft
legislation on non-state (voluntary) pensions.
A comprehensive public information program will be developed and implemented to support the
pension reform.
The Government intends to submit to the Federal Assembly draft laws on the systemic pension
reform before the end of this year.
4.    Labor market
The objective of the Government's activities in this area is to ensure effective employment,
increase work force mobility, support the unemployed, and facilitate their prompt re-entry into
employment.
Steps will be taken towards greater centralization of resources of the Employment Fund and
elimination of the practice whereby Employment Fund resources are used to finance measures related to
subsidizing of employment (job) support activities at enterprises. A draft law will be introduced into the
State Duma stipulating a 30% centralization of Employment Fund revenues. Criteria for redistribution of
the centralized portion of Employment Fund resources among regions will be developed. It is envisaged
that a full-scale audit of the Employment Fund will be carried out in accordance with international
standards.



- 24 -
As a priority, the Government will ensure an increase in the minimum unemployment benefit
linked to the regional subsistence income. The period during which unemployment benefits are paid will
be reduced, and eligibility criteria will be tightened. These measures will make it possible to increase
efficiency of the use of Employment Fund resources.
It is also envisaged to develop a draft new Labor Code and submit it to the State Duma.
5.     Social assistance to families with children
The main objective is to make child allowances a targeted benefit. The Government expects that
legislation will be enacted establishing federal guarantees of monthly payments to families with children
of up to 3 years of age, and allowing subjects of the Federation to pay targeted allowances for children of
other age groups. The Government will promote the development at the regional level of a system of
household means-testing and support the transfer of responsibility for paying child allowances from
enterprises to local social assistance offices. The mechanism of monitoring child allowance payments
will be improved on simultaneously.
6.     Social assistance
Major reforms in the area of social assistance are aimed at establishing a system that would
provide income support to the neediest groups based on household means-testing. It is envisaged that
such a program will initially be implemented through pilot projects in three regions of Russia using
federal resources specifically allocated for this purpose and co-financing from the participating subjects
of the Russian Federation.
For the purposes of improving the use of resources allocated for social assistance, work is in
progress to streamline social privileges and benefits, both cash and in kind, provided at the regional and
local levels, so that to ensure that such privileges and benefits are directed to the poorest households.
7.    Social insurance
It is envisaged to develop a legislative framework for the operations of the Social Insurance Fund
that would determine the Fund's policies in relation to the payment of all insurance-based benefits.
Employment Fund resources must be used primarily to pay out short-term benefits, which would make it
possible to relieve the Fund of the responsibility to finance extraneous activities.
In order to increase the efficiency of short-term sick leave benefits, it would be useful to
introduce a ceiling on such benefits and make sure that employers participate in the funding of costs
related to sick leaves.
8.    Institutional support
To implement the intended policy agenda in the area of social protection, the Government of the
Russian Federation will:
* ensure efficient interaction with the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation on issues
pertaining to development and passage of legislation on social matters;



- 25 -
* ensure the implementation of comprehensive monitoring of the social and economic
situation and implementation results of social programs, including pilot social assistance
programs;
*  inform the public on a regular basis on the progress and outcomes of social sector reforms.
The Government will authorize corresponding ministries and departments of the Russian
Federation to implement the policy in the area of social protection, and corresponding divisions of the
Apparat of the Government of the Russian Federation - to carry out coordination and control functions.
An independent Russian Foundation for Social Sector Reform will be established to support the
implementation of the above objectives. The Foundation, which will comprise representatives of all the
parties concerned, will carry out its activities in accordance with the law on non-commercial
organizations and the Civil Code of the Russian Federation.
A. Chubais
First Deputy Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation



-26 -
n PABI4TEA1bCTBO
POCCMICKOIH- OEAEPAHU4
MOC'KHA
"5 " HIO   1997 r.
W. 1818n-n2
YDazaembzi9 rocnlol ,HH ByffeHmof,
HacroRIitiM HMeo oqecrb coo6urnTb n6 ngnfipeIIH  pe3yjibTraToD neperoRopos n
3aiiMe P,nI  4mHaHCHpOBaHKSi CTpyKTypHH(H  nepec'pO-KKH  CHOTMMi CO1tHaJZbHOi
3auIwThi iHaceJeFHHs, oxpaeHHbix B coracaBaHHxbrx  IacraukisMw  Poccckiiicoii
clegepauiH  iu MeiKgyHapoaHoro 6aHKa peKolIcTpyJcumH H pa3BHTmU  nlpOCXTC
CornaUeHHa 0 o:awiMe m npo i-oicone nIcpcroBopoD OT 31 mauI 1997 r.
B  xo2ee neperopopon  n  npeABspmi'eJlbHoM   nnpqAxe  6bLJIo  0om ru
B3aHMonoHHMaHHc no Bonpocy o nepepacnpeAeeJLeHHH cpCecm  galiHoro 3aftma
Me)K4E ero OTIRCJIbHb]MH TpaliWUINM  CJle)YIOWLHM O6pa3OM: I wwuw - 300 Mji.Hao=uI
2 rpaiiw - 300 MJim.OAj., 3 TpaHW - 200 Mmi.JUix. flpocin 6w Bac paccMoTrpcr
Bo3MO)HOTb TaKOrO nepepacI-ipeIeiieCHU  CpCacTi 5saiM8a.
OgHoBpeMeUiilo HianpaBJWao BaM R COOTPICTCTTHH C AOI-OBOPeHHOCTMM  nCbO  .
c HM3NeHCcM  rno3HTHKII fIpaQwreibcTna Pocctincxoii TPeepauiHH B o65iacim
COUHajimOrl 384aTlljbi HaceiJeHHM.
flpmioeaHe Ha 5 a,.
nleplulu&i 3aMecrTenb )lpeAicega
RlpastTewremma PoccScIori ?'czIepauK\                           A.4y6affc
rIPE3H4EHTY ME)KjPYIAPOAHOI'O
BAHKA PEKOHC.TPY  UW4 H PA3BITHA[
r-Hy ,ZIEAMCY BYJIOEHCOHY
r.BaWHHrro1, oxpfr KOJIyM6Hs
CIIIA



- 27 -
0 U1OJIHTHKE FJPABHTFAb6CBA POCCFlCKOf TEAEPARMH B
OJJIACTH COLAHAJ1bHOR 3AIIAHTbl HACEJIERHJ
1. BiJeAetHiC
Coxpalu.eHHC  Up0Il35OXCTa  it 3XOlIoMHICCKKe  TryiWoc2n  npHBEI   I
Cepbe31lOMY CH)KCIIH1O peawibIml4xIoXo.Lo-1 uia4HTCabHO6i qarTK HaceJieiui PoccHH,
nOXBJICHHIo o rKpbiToii 6&epa6oTHubl, 3aaoji3KeHHocTH  no BbinnIaTe 3apa5oTiioi
nIaTbi u i1eBicHJi, a TaK)e K yMeJibiJlelHIO 6,oAKeTubix aCCHrHOJI8aIHr Ha paIiwHTe
o6pa3onaHns, 3zpaROOXpaHeNHa, HayKH  H  JyJIbTypbl. CCp6e3Hmle  M3MeHlHit
npe'repnciia  clpyx-rypa  paCnpcCIcHrn  gOXoAois,  Bo3iiHx  ~eHOMeit  'HOuOrI
6exiocTn".  B  UaJIOM  L41m  npo6JmeMbi  6eAHocrK  xapaxTepRa    aiHlemHaR
cexpermoiianima. Am4X+epcHuHaLuiRs. MCPOIIPH3TH., HanpasellHbIc Ha peJfCHHe
3T}X  HoBJIX  npo6)ieM, B  HacroRXuc  BpeMR  HaxOmITCS(      UCHipwe RJIMMaHN
rlpaBHTeJIbcTra PoccHkcxoio OegepauMw.
2. OCHOItHbie npHHUHibi peFOpMmpOsaiwR C0UHa3ICUHOi  I noJiiTHx
3a nocneimHIii roA IlpanHTicTwbo POccHiSCKOi CDeAzepaIut    nprpeIpmHHfo
umibu  p51A waron, Hanpabine'mmiiix Ha cra6"jlH3aLIUHO nIOJ)OKCHHRI B COIAU4aHOM
ceKTOpC. B 4eipaJxe 1997 r. -IpaBHTeMR,CTBO OAo6p}JIO rIporpaMMy CoitmaJIkimibX
pCpOpM  B PoCCHii1CKOU  (Dea.cpauwu iia nepwoR, jao 2000 roAa. nporpamMoi
npeAycMaTphkaercs  iulbpOicOMaCTrla6HIAi nJIfaH  MCpOrlpH5(THiS   B  COLIHBJ11HOM
cerrope. B cHoeM FlociiaiHmn OcaepanbimoMy Co6paHMno B mapTe 1997 r. flpet3CaHT
POCCieCKOH OeLIepauH H C4OPMYJIHpOBIlJ cTpaTel'H14ecKHc 3aiiax 11 pe4opMHpoOBazma
co4maImbHoro ceropa.
B X[aHHoA o6IacrH npalcJmmo iia nepo,A, Ao 2000 roxa COcpCeoT0'IHT cBoN
yCHJ1  Ha CJIeCylIOUHX HanpaBnCHHRX jegicnBmii:
AocKxceCIIHc outymrMoro yJlyyu4eiIeII Ma7tCpHUIbHoro nojoKcHHSI H ycjloDfTL
)KK3HH mowxeA;
nepeOpieHTaLkMI COIkHaSBbOi  noJf THKI  Ha CeMblO, o6ocnetCjwix  npas H
COiiaJbHblIX rapaHAmk ceMbe, XKCIIILt>HaM, AThM H MOnOAe3KH;
npemuOCTaB1eHI1c CLoHaYlbHOAi no=uep)KIKH Hy=aOuAMCmc Ha oCHone  pCCNOlO
nPHHUmna;
noBbilwJeiiKe .xjeXTKItHOCTH pacxoaoBaHHlx 6owice'imix Cp)CTCR B CoILaiHJlHO
c4epe;



- 28 -
.
niocTpOCHUme 2exTH istii  nemcmomHiog c"cTemb, coxeTatOIuel 4.H  HaHCOBYX
yCTOhH'lBOCTb C XOC'IaTOqIHhlM YpOBHeM  COIApiaJl-HOII 3mWuT  gaHHOA xaTeropnz
HaceJieHIN;
o6ecnemcHme 344eYMHBHOA 3aHHT'OCT'H lfaCeJIeHHJ9, 1oBbIleLCIe xaqecTna H
KOHXypVlWTOCROCO6HOCTH pa6otieH- CHJIbl;
IJptlOTnpatweHHe  3aCTOiHo0  6C3pa6OTHW14    B  npoLleccc   CpywrypHO-i
rJepCCTpOiXH 3XOHOMtiKH H C03Aal-UHC HOBblIX pa60YmX mVCT,
4erxoe  pa3rpaHHqeH"ie  rIOjIHOMOqHm   H  omercTBHHOCTK  R  peuieiHuz
COUHanbHbIX RonpocoB Ha YPOBHe ()eAcpaUH H m ee Cy6&TOB, a TEaxe Ha MeCTHOM
ypOBHe.
FipawHTCAbCBO Po(fHiiCoKOA q)eRepauLlm pa3pa6oTaJlo H Ha4iiiacT peawui3au
KOMITI[eKCa Mep, HanpaBwieHHbx tia CTpyKTypiiyU1  nepecTpoAiXy COUHa3IHKOI 35alUTb[
Hacenel.l9,  BKJ.TOqaJ  pa4HOH3M"Ml   COUHIfbHbIX  pacxozioB  C  yqeTom
#aKTH4ccHx  nciTpe6HOcreAi  cyrAej6bHbIX  rpynii  Hacwenvf.CH     it  6iozKprmorn
nOTCeHuHw-Ia pCrHOHoB, a Tax)Ce rioJLwiucHme ycrOrimmBOCTh ICcyaapcTBenlibix
BHC6X)EjK"Hb1X OaOB cOuHwtbJIoro Hm3HaIemIlR H 344eKTK8IIOGTH HX paCXOaOB.
fOlcxOJxbKy pCLHUie 3TKX 3-aga'l upeAnoiJaraer2 B inepiyio o'JepeAu. o6HOBAUeiHe
3axo01  RaHebiHoA 6a.3m, JTpal3HTJi6bCTBO POCCHiCKOI4 Qeaepa -H HaMepemo awimiBt1
HdCilojl3OBaTb   npaHo  3aKOHoAaTeJIbHOA  UHmHUIaTHilal  B  COOTucTCTBH       r C
BbIWCyIIOMNIiYTIMH ripHOpHTCTaMH.
3. HeHcIIOHHoO o6ecne'eH11e
YcimI.  rIpaiaBHTemrCTea  no  pCOpMmpOsaHH1o  cHuceML  neleHClHorIIoro
o6ecie'iewim o,O ciwx nop 6bWni COcpCMOTO"JeHlbl Ha yxpenjiecHHH 6a3bl CipaXOBb6X
B3HOCOIB n IleHiCMOHtIH6Ii 4Om   PoccHicicoKi VegepaLitH, coBepweH-icrBoBaHHiK
npoueiyp c6opa CTpaXOBbMX B3HOCOB U riOXeCpaHmH MHHHManJiOrO pa:3mtpa
nCHCIIH  UR COIraJIUHO HeaUAHWeH{HbX nelIHcoHepO). flpaBHTeJMCBoM   piHWra
ilporpaMMa MomrTOppHHra M IIHKBHUaUMH 3aztoJDeiHH0cTH no BRbInAaTaM lieticuHH.
Pa3pa6aTmsaercx   mexaHM3M    KOPPCKTHPOIIXH    neHCHOHHblA    R.lJIawT,
hlanpaBnieHHl-IHi Ha iiOWep)KaHe lx NHHHManb"oro pa3mepa npi oxUoispemelIHOM
o6ccne4ellHH c6anaH CKPOBHHOCril 6iozvlera rlelCHOiHHoro 4foiiAa.
flpaniHmbcT6O HRMePCHO yApeWTw  oco6oe finfMaHHe ilpo5lcmc noBbluleRHi
34J4CKTHBHOCTM pa6OTbl FI.eHCHOHHoro 4)oi4za, HMme B Bi ;Y Yycrpa4HnTk MeiOHioeCR
RewLOcTaTmi. llpeXycmMaTpHBaeTcR npoDeeIC CreOzLHbiX 8AyTOPCzzX rIpOBCPOKC
rlClICHOHHoro 4moHIa o cooTBeTcTBHH c Mew1yHapowmnimm cratHapTaMI ayAwrI.
pe3ynX]6rauTl  OTOwb1X 6yYTAOcTyn6IIW ok6aeTemioCT.



- 29-                                 3
O,aHoBpeMeHno 6YZyT lpt;lRnPP9itlMUTbCL  :Hepipr-nquwl  warui no paipa6o7xe
OCHOBHbIX  i11pHUniOnB  CHCTcMHOoiI neHCHOHHOA  pe4lOPMMI U  EX  peaiw3auIii.
KoHueiuuii riemcomioi pe41OpMbl npeqcMa7Trpmae~v  co3gaHHe TpexypoBHe)oii
CHCTeMreI neHCH}i, r1pH KOTOPOM 3a C4eT rOCYZXPCTMCHHbLX cpezLcra 6yncT
(jtItHaiicmpoBauS1 co4WaJIbHas (6a3oBaR) ner*CH   BHC 3uBHCHMOCmH OT cwla,a. IT
yn,jiaqCHHi,ix   B3HOCOB.   06.n3aT=hnbmoe   nCHCHOBHOe   vTpaxvO5UHHt   6yyAer
OPMpHpOBfaTbCSr  Ha OCHOBe y'4eTa 3apa6orxa H crawa inpui HacTwmuoM Hal!  oiorHom
HCnOlIO b3o5aHH    HaXOl1WTenbHOrO    npTiHH Iina.   CHCTVMa   aIO6pOBwIbHOIO
HcrocyAapcTeHiHoro nleHCtOH HOrO o6ecrnCl'eHH3  6yueT IojiiioCTbio OCHOBaia Ha
HaKonJThreaIlJLlx npHHUiHUax; 6ylyT TaX)KC npe)cM4qBaTbCR HH4KHbIC rapatTHui
ee cjtnallcoBoi cTra6mabiHocTH.
flpii 3ToM  6Y,acT 06eCnetIHBwrbCsi rapaHThpOBaHHbIH  ypOiseHb niCHoH1iibx
BbirlmaT  ixi.i nioAeii noxHnoro Bo3pacra, CHHXCeHHe cTaBOK CTpaXOBbX B31H0COB,
JiaqHcJIcMblx Ha 4oHa onnaTbi 'rpyiia, yMeHbJUCHHe Harpy3lKH Ha rc)CyzxapcTzeHIIQC
pMHaicHponaHHc    neHcioioiuo4ro    o6ecvietiekium,    CO.3AaHKC    MeXall3MOD,
yi,ejLM4qRBUWiv X 06icMbi neHCHCOIHblX cGCpC)KCHrHi HaCJTeliH5.
ilpaBm'eeJzbcTso PoccHHcxoiK t)eAepaLHH BHCcjiO B Qegepawii.oc C*6paHw1t
npoexT 3aKoHoaaTeJIbc-Da o HzrocyoaapcTBe"iom   a6poBonbHoM) neHCHUH!OM
o6ecneweHt4H.
4,i no,=cpwx(H neHc14eHCHOIiO pC4QpMbIl 6ya1eT nOmrurosncla H ocywTecTnneIla
ROMZlUeKCHan riporpaMMa MHcOpMHpOBaHHA o6uec-rBeHHocTH.
flpa3ltTeJlCIco  Hamepeiio  IwicTti B OegepalbHoe Co6paHHC  FoccHcwoci
OcJIepauHM 3aKOHOnpoeKTbr o pe4opmc ci4cTeMbi IieicIIoHIoro o6eciieeeitHR Ao
xoHua ievKyiuero rojta.
4. Pbiliox Tpyxa
tieJiblo AeArTCJbHOcTH IlpaBHTemcToa n aaHHOR c4epe JiEJRCTcx o6ccnevieHe
3#r,KTHBHOA 3aHMTOCrH, nlOBbIWCHHe Ma6HJIbHOCTH TpyXOBbiX pecypcoB, noxepXca
6e3pa6oTHbix, cogleicTrne ux cxopeHmieMy 3O3BpaumeH*no x TpyN,y.
EyzIyT  iipeAlpHiisri Mepbl, HanpasjBiC1iFibiC  Ha 6onfbwyfo  txeHTaym3agnko
CptLrTB sCIoCHa 3aHslToCrH HaCCACHHA H jU HisKsAauHo ripaxRiTmX H HCnOjxy3OBaHK5
peCypCOB   (POHAa   AU    4xHaiiCHpOBaHHm    MeOpnpHHTHt1,   CBf3aHHbtX    c
cy6cHAHpoia-IiteM  nO=CpXYH 3aHirroCMT  Ha npeanpiixp HRx. B rocyzxapcmBeriyw
AyMy  6yEe-r  sHeceii  3aKoHonpoeK-r,  npenycMarpHBalouLIiu  30-npouerrHyio
ueuTpamnA3aU4HO  ZoXogoF  Oonaa  3ajluTOcrH  HaceJieHiKN. By.fyT  pa3pa6oTaHbl
cpHTepKu nepCpacrlpe,aeneHrn  ItCllTpaJLr3OaHoHHOA lialc,T  CpCACICB c?OHAa MCXUt
perHoHaMH.  rlpelxycMoTpeHo   I IpOBeaeHHC   roii HOMac1rjTa6HoH-  aywH-lopcKoC M



-30-                                  4
npoBepxi  Powxu 3a-iTnowr     HaCeJeHHS  B COO -       Uermm   C MeIxyHapOaHbiMm
CTdKFXapTaMm.
rIpaBUTWJbCTeO   B   ncpBoo4epegom   nopsi=c   o6ecneqFrir  noBbiWeH:[c
MHHMaJIbHOrO ypoBHS floco6Hs rio 6eWipa6omnTe Ha ocHoBe ero YBM'3XW C BcJI4tlHOR
llpO)IHTO'IHOrO  MMHHMyMa, yCTallOBJIeHHOrO  B TOM  Hniu MHOM  PC1HOHe. 1YT
COJcpaUJIeHbM CpOKH, B Te-qCHMC XUTUpJX BbinnamijBaHeTr  noco6iie no 6e3pa6omue, n
yNceCroTcHbI  xpHTepHX   ero  nonymeHHs.  3TH   Mepib  nO3Bojirr  uOBbICIic
344eXThBHOCTb HCnOJTb3ouaiiHR cpegc-r cTotia 3aH5VTOCTh maceneIrn,.
HpeztycMarpHBaeTcR pa3pa6oTwrb m RHCTH B IocyaapcelHHyio RyMy npoerr
HOBoro Kozexca 3axOHOB o rpyaie.
5. CogUmaiisH noMOuib ceM3i.M c ACTMH
OcnOrnioit    naaYeU  Sumc=vR  npijammc  noco6m   Hn  A T:ri  aupecworo
xapaxTepa.  npaBHTeJbcTBo  paccml-wBacT  -ja  npnniTvne  3a1oH0oixaTeJThcTa,
o6cdncnsBakouLcro 4cEcpanbHbIe rapalrmfn eKeNecRCHOR BbLInJlarbl noco6lii iia
.ze-r  B B03pac-re xax MHHHMyM ZtO 3 JieT, a raKxe npeacXLawBJ1xouero cy6ibeM
POCCHiiCKOi IOeaIepauksn npaBo Bbin6lainsaTh apxpecHi-e noco6HA Ha neIe}i xipyrox
BO3pac-roB. HJpa.HTJIbclBo 6yp,er coacICrCBoRana   patRHTmo  Ha perHOHaJmHOM
ypOBHC CHCTeMLI OJLCHIH  MaTepi4a.HOrO  nonOweCim   cemei H nolmCpmBaTh
npoilccc nCpCjPaWlrM OTheTCcCHHOc  3a Db[roJma'y Il0CU6rit OT ripcZnprvami MC Eb.IM
opranam COUHaJIHOA 3ai,kHT'J HaceeHnHi. IlapanYreJbHo 6yAeT COBCpwieHiciOBaTbic
MexaHH3M MOHHTOpHIIra uwniiaTbi noco6mH Ha tieTei.
6. CoquaTn,HaI no=epcx1'a
B  CouflajILHOI4 -5aluliTe HacenemHHS  ocHOI5Hbme pe4opMbi itanpasxcHbnl Ha
Co3JlalIHe CMCTeMbl, o6ecnleIMBafo.eA nOMOLb HaH6ojiec Hy*,}CawOLHMCR rpaxczEa1iam,
OcHoBaHHoii Ha oueHxe MwrepmamJHoro nofl0o)eHm  ccMeii. HpeaycmarpsiBae-rcsu, qTo
.ad rTporpaMMa ea'ne'r peanli3oumiRaTcsi 'epe3 runoTHble rlpoelXT(bI n rpex penonax
POCCUH 3a cme'r BIacneHHbix xWl  xnix 1"cJTicgCepajibHbix LC-pea        f CpeXlaC
cy6beiTrO  PoccuicxoR (DezepaUHH, yliacTBsyiolHiux B nporpamme.
C' UCJTIO yJny'fleHH5I Hcnronb3Osaiim cpeacTBi HanpaBJixeMbix Ha coilHajmIyO
3aJJ.wTy,  OCyeCTge Dmerc   ynOpa.olIdHme  COUMaZJ6bHbX   ml6rOT   H   nloCoGmi,
ripe,ocTaBismeMbLix  ia  perHOHa)lbHOM   H  MecTHOM   YPORHRX  8  ACIIC2KHOfi  I
HaTypaJbHoRH  cOpMe C TeM, 4TO6bl o6ccnclnI-m  six npeAocTaBsneHe IlaHMCHCC
o6cCneienHbmI CCMixM.



-31 -                               5.
7. CmOi.a.UbHoe cTpaxoBaHke
lpczi;ycMaTpiiBaCTcR CO3JaaHKc 3BX0Ho0aTabHOH OCHOBbl ACRTC6IbHOCf 0OIlZa
coUMa3lbHoro cTpaxouaHHR, onpeatemimudie  nonMTHlKy qPoHAa B  twfn;lTm  CeX
cTpaxOBIIX nOCO6lii. CpegcTna OojH.a IOJoKHbi xoiiueHIpmpOBaTha na BbIIJlaTlv
CTpaXOBbIX KpaTxoBpeMeHH6LX  nOCo6wii, WTO  n1o3BOJIHT OCBO6O)tTh 4)ORa Or
4HHaHCHpOBaHHR HenpO4HnYbHbIX DbinJlaT.
C  UWIbTo nO-bIwlJiHH5I 3+4IChKBHOCTH  cTpaxOBl1Ix BInLTdT no BpeMCHHOA
HITpyx0cnoGo6HOCTH qcnccoo6pa3HO orpaiimqmnT  MX MmaCHMamIhHbifi pU3MCp I
npHBJie'b  pa6OTORaTZeg  K  y'acrHio  B  pacxogax  no  onnaTC  DpCMCHHOUr
Heipyaocnoco6HOcr".
8. OpramMi3aUHoHHaq noaLpCKxa
,IA)X peanI3UTMH  HaMCtICHHoii nonui-rmTH n o6niac    O couHaabHOri 3alrT1Tb
HCCJICeHHS FlpaBKerwbcTBo POCCHiMCKOK QIeaepaUti o6ecnewr:
3qj4exTmBHOe B3aMmogeiicBHe C qPCaCpaRbHH61M  Co6pamHeM  PoccHri cKok
Qe,acpaumHm nO BOIIpOCaM papa6oTmH H npHHSITW3 COW4aJTHOrO 3aKOHOitawjvlhCu-a;
npfoy mcHme  x)OMnnexccHoro   MOHU'I opNra   COumajnmO-.'?xOHOM)YxJe J0
CMTyaL"U  H pe3ynbTaTOB  pC  WLHUHH  COUhaJbHbLX  lpor-paMM, B TOM  'IlUCne
IHl-tiTzoblx nporpaMm coiAianii.iou no=cpxcm;
peIerIypHOe MH4OpMIpOBaHHC  o6iec-CBeHKiOCTN  0  XOLC  H  pe3yflJbTaTaX
ColinV1bHb1X pe4OpM.
lTpanHTenbcrno B0311OKtIT Ha COO-riCTCTBytotmrW MFlHc=pcra if H BgOMCrBU
PoccmAuxKou   P,eacpaUHH peain3aUUio nojiHTHxH B o6nacTH COUHMbHOA 3auA;IT6I
HaceneHn,,  a  Ha  170lpa3fnCJlrHKR  AnnapaTra  ripamTeaibcTa  PocCmiiCKoA
I1OeaepaIjHH - IymXum    no  xOOpJJHHauHm   U  XOHlpO1o.  5yxeTr  y'ipeKeili
HeC3aBCHMb1U POCCUICKMA (OHA COUan6LLIX PC4)OPM, Ueb)O xoToporo  rTHCT
co,XaeRcTme peanI3JTMU    y}xa3aHHbiX BbJwe 3a'aa%. qPoH, B cocTaB xKoTporo BOiZYT
Elpegc,UTHBHTeCH BCeX 3aHllMecoBaHHbmX CTOpOH, 6yAeT oCyIUCCTBJnAT CBOIO
AC.STeJTHOC-T6 i COOTBCrCTBHU   C   PegeCpajIbHbIM  3axOHOM  "0  i4CKnMMCPICiecHCx
OPraHH3aui1USX" m rpa)KaaHCxHM xogexcOM POCCHiiCKOic (Deaepauix.
rlepUblii 3BaMcMTeJTb FIpearcexaaTeJui
IHpaBHTenbCTBa POCCHHiCKOi (Degepaitni i                      A.My6aaRc






Actions to date                                       Second tranche                                         Third tranche
A. POLICY FRAMEWORK
1. Maintenance  of a  sound  overall macroeconomic  1. Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework,  1. Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework,
framework', including: (a) adequate performance on key  including: (a) adequate performance on key macroeconomic  including:  (a)  adequate  performance   on   key
macroeconomic indicators; and (b) agreement on a schedule  indicators; and (b) adherence to the agreed schedule for  macroeconomic indicators; and (b) adherence to the
for pension arrears reduction.                         pension arrears reduction.                             agreed schedule for pension arrears reduction.
2. The Govemment's Letter of Social Protection Policy has   2. Satisfactory progress in implementation of the Letter of  2. Satisfactory progress in implementation of the Letter of
been signed and received by the Bank.                  Social Protection Policy.                              Social Protection Policy.
3. Revival of the Government Commission on Social Policy to
guide the process of reform.
4. The Govemment has undertaken utilities and housing
reform, with a particular focus on protecting poor households
as subsidies are reduced.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~B.   PENSIONS
MINIMUM PENSIONS                                                                                                                                                    Z
1. Appropriate regulatory acts have been issued to maintain:   1 (a) Government has provided evidence that a sufficient  1 (a) Govemment has provided evidence that an inflation  X
allocation has been made in the proposed 1998 PF budget  adjustment has been made to the floor end-i 997 based on  w
(a) The pension floor (minimum  pension+compensation  submitted to the Federal Assembly for indexation of the  the previous twelve months' inflation (only if necessary in
adjustment) at a level not below 80% of the federal Minimum   pension floor, based on the previous twelve months' inflation.   order to maintain the floor above 80% of MESI).  O
Elderly Subsistence Income (MESI)
(b) PF expenditures maintained within regular PF revenues  (b) Final 1998 Federal budget as signed into law includes    n
(b) Such pension floor would be indexed at least once a year  (wage tax and federal contribution).            adequate allocations to cover federal statutory expenditure
and in the case when cumulative inflation reaches a trigger of                                                obligations to the PF.
6%, but not more often than quarterly.                (c) The Govemment has included adequate allocations to
cover federal statutory expenditure obligations to the PF in the  (c) PF expenditures maintained within regular PF revenues    x
(c) Total Pension Fund (PF) expenditures within regular PF  proposed 1998 budget submitted to the Federal Assembly.  (wage tax and federal contribution).
revenues (wage tax and federal contribution).
PENSION FUND
2 (a) The Government has developed a timebound schedule  2 (a) Government to furnish interim report demonstrating  2 (a) Government to submit report demonstrating
to reduce pension arrears.                             satisfactory progress in implementation of the action plan.  satisfactory progress in implementation of the action plan.
(b) The Govemment has introduced measures to strengthen  (b) The Government has prepared and furnished to the Bank  (b) Audit of the PF 1996 accounts in accordance with the
tax collection, including better reporting obligations for banks  the preliminary survey for the audit of the 1996 PF accounts.   recommendations of the preliminary survey completed.
and enterprises.
(c)  The Govemment has introduced public initiatives to  (c) Government has prepared and fumished to the Bank an
enforce tax payment compliance of large companies.    interim report on the effects of measures aimed at improving
the revenue base of the PF, inciuding recommendations on
(d) A Govemment Decision has been issued setting up a task  corrective actions to strengthen the efficiency of program
force to adopt recommendations on improving the collection of  measures.
PF contributions, with terms of reference to prepare an action
plan                                                   (d) Government has fumished the Bank with an independent
evaluation of the current pilot experience with individual
worker accounts.



Actions to date                                        Second tranche                                         Third tranche
(e) Government has adopted a satisfactory program to
strengthen the revenue base of the PF, including: (a) shifting I
percentage point of the payroll tax from the SIF to the PF; (b)
introduction of measures to straighten tax colection.
(f) Govemrment has issued a resolution foostanoveniyej to
introduce annual audits of the PF, carried out according to
intemational auditing standards, and accessible to the public;
the first audit to cover the PF fiscal year 1996 and focus on
the adequacy of financial information and financial reporting,
and of intemal control systems. A preliminary survey would
be undertaken prior to the audit to determine the extent and
methodology of the audit.
SYSTEMIC PENSION REFORM
3. (a) The Govemrnment has prepared legislation to reduce the  3. Adoption of appropriate regulatory acts on non-state  3 (a) Govemment has submitted draft legislation on
pensions of working pensioners and shift financial obligations  (voluntary) pensions, including:               systemic pension reform as approved by the government.
for early retirement pensions to enterprise and sector-funded
schemes.                                               (i) defining and protecting participants' rights        (b) Enactment of voluntary pension legislation, consistent
(ii) defining the rights of the founding members of the pension   with the introduced draft law.
(b) The Govemment has introduced legislation on private  schemes in relation to the assets of the various non-state
voluntary pensions.                                    (voluntary) pensions;                                   (c) Government is implementing its comprehensive
(iii) separating the function of management of assets of the  strategy for a public information and education program on
accumulated pensions from the function of preserving them  systemic pension reform.
and controlling their use;
(iv) introduction of a requirement of professional management
of the assets, including their preservation and control of their
use;
(v) ensuring that the regulation of asset investment of
accumulated pensions, including their preservation and control
of usage, is conducted by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), and all other aspects of non-state
(voluntary) pensions are regulated either by the SEC or
another appropriate government entity.
4 (a) Government has adopted a satisfactory decision on
systemic pension reform, involving introduction of a three-tier
system: (i) one or more publicly financed programs, including
provisions on the minimum pension, consistent with the
regulatory act maintaining the pension floor; (ii) one or more
mandatory eamings-related programs, which in tum would be
fully or at least partly capitalized; and (iii) one or more
voluntary eamings-related pension regimes, which in the long-
run should be fully capitalized. The resolution includes
provisions to protect accrued pension entitlements.
(b) Govemment has prepared a comprehensive strategy for a
public information and education program on systemic pension
reform.



Actions to date                                       Second tranche                                         Third tranche
C. UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
1. Submission to the Federal Assembly of the Employment  1. The Federal Assemble has approved the EF budget for  1.   Enactment of the 1998 EF budget, which shall
Fund (EF) budget for 1997, including a 20% centralization of  1997, including a 20% centralization of EF resources.  centralize 30% of EF revenues in 1998.
EF revenues.
2. A satisfactory formula has been adopted to allocate  2. The Ministry of Labor and Social Development (MLSD)
2. Govemment has introduced a draft legislation to raise the  centralized EF resources based on regional need.  will monitor and evaluate the coverage and efficiency of all
minimum  unemployment benefit to  20%  of regional                                                            EF benefits.
subsistence, plus 10%  for each  dependent, the total  3. Govemment to introduce draft legislation to improve EF
supplement not to exceed 30% of minimum subsistence.   resource use; such draft legislation to include measures  3. Audit of the EF 1996 accounts completed and a
agreed upon by the Govemment and the Bank, and providing  monitorable time-bound action plan has been drawn up to
for: (i) compression of the unemployment benefi structure; (ii)  implement the recommendations of the audit.
reduction of the duration of benefit payments; and (iii)
restrictions on eligibility.
4. Govemment has prepared a draft new Labor Code and
submitted it to the Federal Assembly.
5. Government has issued a resolution loostanovleniye) to
introduce annual audits of the EF, carried out according to
intemational auditing standards and placed in the public
domain; the first audit will cover the PF fiscal year 1996 and
focus on the adequacy of local employment activities in
accordance wih the Law on Employment, induding financial                                                         W
flows and financial reporting practices, and on intemal control
systems.
6. The Govemment has prepared and fumished to the Bank a
preliminary review for the audit of the EF accounts.
D. CHILD ALLOWANCE
1. Govemment has issued a resolution [postanovleniyej  1. Enactment of legislation authorizing targeting of child  1. Govemment has prepared and provided the Bank with
allowing gradual transfer of responsibility for administering  allowances.                                    a status report on the implementation of the transfer of
monthly child allowances from enterprises to local social                                                    child allowance payments to local social assistance offices
assistance offices.                                    2. Enactment of legislation to maintain a federal guarantee of
monthly child allowances to children at least to the age of  2. Govemment has prepared and provided the Bank with
2. Govermment has introduced draft legislation authorizing  three.                                            a status report on the year-to-date payment of child
subjects of the Federation to introduce means-tested targeting                                                allowances.
of monthly child allowances.                           3. As a part of the 1998 draft federal budget, a mechanism is
to be developed to allow control over the timely payments of
3. Govemrnent has introduced draft legislation to maintain a  allowances to families with children in the sFs which receive
federal guarantee for monthly child allowances to children up  transfers from the federal budget.
to the age of three.
_____________________________________                             E. SOCIAL INSURANCE FUND
1.  Govemrment has bitroduced draft legisation into the  1. Government has introduced draft legislation to the Federal  1. SIF has completed review of. (a) its role in benefit
Federal Assebly lring the evel of the monthly sickness  Assembly requiring that sick lave be partially paid by the  provision; and (b) matemity leave policy.
benefit to a maxmumn of 12 times the minkium wage.    empoyer.                                              J



Actions to date                                      Second tranche                                       Third tranche
F. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
1. Govemment has Issued a decision [raspostanovleniyel to  1. Govemment has included in the draft Federal budget for  1. Govemment has prepared and fumished to the Bank a
proceed with the social assistance pilots, authorizing the MOF  1998 financing for the remainder of the pilot period (the first progress report on implementation of the pilot schemes,
to allocate financing to the SA pilots in both 1997 and 1998,  half of 1998, six months), allocated among each of the three  including recommendations on the better use of resources
and induding statements from the regions on the level of their  pilot regions and conditional upon statements from the regions  for assistance to vulnerable groups.
cofinancing.                                         on the level of their cofinancing in 1998.
2. Govemment has completed a review of legal privileges,
grants and allowances at the regionalAlocal level.
n:A.c3hr%hjalteVtobobVntx603.doc



- 37 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual               Estimate           Projected
Indicator                1991    1992      1993     1994     1995     1996      1997       1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0
Agriculture'                         13.8     7.3      7.5       8.7      8.6      8.6      8.5        8.5
Industrya                            45.9    42.2     40.6      37.6     39.0     39.3     38.7       38.5
Servicesa                            36.7    52.7     46.3      50.7     45.7     46.1     45.4       45.1
Total Consumption                      63.5    60.2     69.1      69.1     71.4     71.8     74.0       75.6
Gross domestic fixed investment        23.3    23.9     20.4      21.8     20.5     20.5     19.7       20.3
Government investment                  ..      ..       ..       6.1      5.2      4.4      4.6        4.7
Private investment                     ..      ..       ..    19.4    20.7        19.6     18.1       17.6
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          ..   55.6      35.5     28.4      26.3     22.3     21.5       20.0
Imports (GNFS)                           ..   50.4      31.6     23.1      23.6     18.1     18.2       17.9
Gross domestic savings                 36.5    39.8     30.9     30.9      28.6     28.2     26.0       24.4
Gross national savings'                36.3    35.1     28.5     29.4      27.2     26.7     24.2       22.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              803,747  96,967  183,780  276,912  357,509  440,097  465,482    515,045
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per               ..  3,160    2,770    2,320    2,230
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at          -5.0%  -14.5%    -8.7%   -12.6%    -4.3%    -6.0%      0.0%       4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                  ..      ..   -9.7%   -12.3%    -4.7%    -2.7%    -0.6%        3.4%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at          -5.3%  -14.6%     -8.6%   -12.5%    -4.2%    -5.8%     0.3%       4.3%
market prices
Total consumption                      ..      ..   -3.2%    -7.1%    -2.4%    -2.8%      2.3%       5.7%
Private consumption                    ..      ..       ..   0.5%       3.9%     2.3%     3.1%       5.7%
(Continued)



- 38 -
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Indicator                          Actual               Estimate          Projected
1991   1992      1993    1994     1995    1996      1997       1998
The balance of payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                           53,883   65,244   78,600   93,900   98,299  100,029    103,109
Merchandise FOB                         53,883   58,422   69,600   81,500   88,299   89,639     92,218
Imports (GNFS)b                           48,915   58,110   63,900   84,500   79,764   84,882    92,157
Merchandise FOB                         43,415   44,219   48,500   64,000   65,333   69,766     76,081
Resource balance                      ..  4,968    7,134   14,700    9,400   18,535   15,146      10,951
Net current transfers                                          -58      168      168      168        168
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                    3,468    5,477   11,342    4,268   11,806    6,975      1,734
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                   700      386      637    2,017    2,000    2,500      2,800
investment
Long-term loans (net)                      2,600  -10,523  -12,972   -9,470   -4,064   -1,612      -1,880
Official                                          ..           ..
Private                                               ..
Other capital (net, including          ..  -5,968    8,060   -3,076    8,114  -14,603   -6,989     2,726
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                   ..   -800   -3,400    4,069   -4,929    4,861      -874      -5,379
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                  ..  5.1%      3.9%     5.3%     2.6%     4.2%     3.3%       2.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(YR95 prices)
Merchandise exports                   ..      ..  -7.7%    11.8%       5.9%     2.2%     2.2%      2.5%
(FOB)
Primary                              ..      ..       ..       ..       ..   2.2%      2.2%       2.5%
Capital goods                        ..      ..       ..       ..       ..   2.2%      2.2%       2.5%
Merchandise imports                   ..      ..        ..      ..  21.6%       4.7%     5.0%      6.6%
(CIF)
(Continued)



- 39 -
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual               Estimate            Projected
Indicator                 1991    1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997       1998
Public fmnance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)e
Current revenues                        ..   43.6       38.6     36.7     32.7      28.8     29.8       30.4
Current expenditures                    ..   57.9       42.7     40.7     33.6      32.5     31.2       30.2
Budgetary savings surplus (+)            ..  -14.3      -4.1     -4.0      -0.9     -3.7     -1.4        0.2
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditures                     ..    7.8       4.8      7.5      6.0       5.1      5.2        5.4
Overall balance (- = deficit)           ..  -21.8       -8.7    -11.3     -6.1      -8.5     -6.4        -4.9
Foreign financing                       ..   14.5        3.2      1.3      2.1       1.6      1.9        1.8
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                ..   55.8      23.9     21.2      17.0     16.0     16.7       18.7
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                         ..     ..    286.6    216.5    114.0       29.7     23.6       30.3
Price indices
(YR95 = 100)
Merchandise export price                ..   72.2       84.9     90.4    100.0    106.0    105.4       105.8
index
Merchandise import price                ..      ..        ..    92.1    100.0       97.5     99.2      101.4
index
Merchandise terms of trade               .       ..       ..    98.2    100.0    108.8    106.3        104.3
index
Real exchange rate                   171.6    23.2      48.3     80.3    100.0    134.3    139.7       145.3
(US$/LCU)'
Consumer price index                92.6%   1354%      895%     303%      189%    47.5%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         129%   1490%      888%     307%      179%    47.1%    18.0%       12.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS' denotes 'goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Enlarged government (federal and local governments and extrabudgetary funds).
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.






- 41 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 4: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Actual '               Estimate e          Projected'
Indicator              1991     1992       1993      1994       1995     1996     1997      1998
Total debt outstanding and            .             112,941   121,922    120,461  128,592  139,357   151,202
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)'            ..   13,565      4,334    3,222       5,115     -219    2,844     2,307
Total debt service (TDS)             ..   1,305       2,334     3,674      6,303   17,932    16,640    18,707
(US$m)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGS                             ..      ..         ..    153.6       126.5    129.8    138.3    145.3
TDO/GDP                             ..      ..       61.5      44.0       33.7     29.2      29.9     29.4
TDS/XGS                             ..      ..         ..       4.6        6.6     18.1      16.5     18.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   ..      0.0       0.5       1.0        0.9      0.8       1.3      2.6
Preferred creditor DS/public       ..       3.0      11.5      13.7       13.6      9.4      11.8     15.1
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                         ..      ..         ..       0.0        0.1      0.1       0.2      0.5
Share of IBRD portfolio            ..       0.0       0.3       0.6        1.4      2.3      4.1       5.7
a. Jncludes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
e. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.






- 43 -
RUSSLIN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEx 5: SYSTEMIC PENSION REFORM IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Introduction
1.    Under the SPAL, the Russian government has undertaken to adopt for second tranche release a
satisfactory resolution (postanovleniye) on systemic pension reform, involving introduction of a three-
tier system. The resolution is similar to what in other countries is called a "White Paper." The document
would analyze in detail the various options for pension reform, explain the reasons for the choices made,
and spell out the requirements for implementation of systemic reform, including fiscal requirements for
transition to a system with a funded component. The resolution would provide the basis for legislation
that contains workable and mutually consistent proposals that support the objectives of pension reforrn
(e.g., plan for handling early retirement privileges should be consistent with the thrust of the overall
refonn).
Objectives and structure of the reform package
2.    The underlying objectives for systemic reform that the document would address are:
* provision of income security and protection against poverty during old age;
D reductions of high payroll taxes with their negative effects on compliance and labor markets;
- reduction of the burden of pensions on public finance; and
- provision of mechanisms for increasing private savings.
3.    The basic structure of the Government's systemic reform to be outlined in the resolution would
be as follows:
A.    A first tier with one or more publiclyfinanced programs to provide minimum income security
and protection against povertyfor the elderly.
4.    The first tier probably would have the following features: (a) a relatively large "flat" benefit paid
to most/all elderly or disabled, and probably conditioned on labor force attachment, that is designed to
sustain the current population of elderly (and disabled) and those who will be retiring over a transition
period that could range from 10 to 30 years; and (b) back-up means-tested benefits, for those whose work
histories do not qualify them for a full labor-based payment and who otherwise lack adequate income.
5.    The Russians face a choice on how to design a "flat" benefit. They could choose a years-of-
service, "labor" pension, along the lines of the U.K., Argentina or Lithuania. Altematively, they could
choose the simpler approach of a "citizens' pension" as in Denmark, the full amount of which is paid
regardless of past labor force attachment. The higher the flat benefit and the more universal its coverage,
the less need there is for any back-up means-tested benefits. A key advantage is that financing a



- 44 -
citizens' pension does not rely so heavily on increasingly unenforceable payroll tax contributions
imposed at the enterprise level.
6.     Under current circumstances, the "flat" components of the current system cost the Russians
about 5 % of GDP (a further approximately I % might be characterized as going to a small earnings-
related tier). This modest sum by international standards is deceptively low. Because money wages are
only 25 to 30 % of GDP, the amount spent on primarily labor-based pensions is also low. If money
wages were to rise to, say, 50 % of GDP, pension spending could easily rise to a more typical 8 to II %
of GDP. One of the challenges in designing a new pension system for Russia is to dampen such an
increase by linking the public pension to an absolute standard rather than to a standard that is related to
earnings. By such dampening, some fiscal space can be created for financing the cost of a funded pillar.
The SPAL conditionality addresses this issues by linking the pension floor to the level of the minimum
elderly subsistence index (MESI).
B.    A second tier with one or more mandatory earnings-related programs, which in turn would be
fully or at least partially capitalized.
7.    Ideally, this second level should consist of: (a) for (at least) younger workers, a mandatory
system of funded, earnings-related, pensions using the individual account approach during the capital
accumulation phase; and (b) possibly for older workers, an earnings-related add-on to the flat benefit
financed out of current taxes.
8.     An optimal structure would be a system of "individual accounts," part of which would be
notional-- that is, based on fictional contributions and a fictional rate of return -- and the other part of
which be funded (capitalized). Eventually, the system would be fully capitalized. The first and second
tiers would interact in the following manner. At the base would be a flat citizens' pension, pegged at 80
% of the MESI. To this would be added the proceeds of real funded accounts, derived from
contributions set at, say, 10 % of earnings, and paid either as an annuity or in phased installments. Also
added to the base would be the "proceeds" of fictional accounts, probably also set at 10 % of earnings,
and paid as an annuity.
9.     Though there are many ways to sequence the transition from fictional to funded accounts, two
major problems are typically encountered. First, is the issue of whether any differentiated payment
financed from current taxes can be afforded. Using current resources to finance a differentiated payment
means either lowering the flat benefit or adding to total costs. Second, there is the problem of designing
the system to achieve equity across generations, so that no major discontinuities or "notches" among
cohorts occur. This may be difficult, thus increasing the pressure to "level up" and increase costs.
10.   Assuming a fiscal envelope of no more than 10 % of GDP going to pensions (both as transfers
and contributions to funded accounts), and that the "costs" of the funded pillar could be kept initially
within the range of no more than two % of GDP (principally by restricting them to workers below some
cutoff age), this structure would allow as much as 8 % of GDP for some combination of flat and
differentiated pensions financed from current resources. This would include about I % of GDP for early
retirement schemes that might also be capitalized over time. Assuming that money wages rise to 50 % of
GDP, then the cost of the funded accounts would rise gradually to 5 % of GDP, necessitating a modest
cutback in the first level benefits financed from current resources to no more than 5 % of GDP.
11.    This scenario should be feasible in Russia, once real wage growth resumes, and if revenue
collection and monitoring can be improved. However, if the fiscal envelope is tighter -- say, no more



- 45 -
than 8 % of GDP -- then little can be done to finance differentiated pensions for older workers (those
without funded accounts), and/or the poverty alleviation aspects of the publicly financed system will
have to be compromised.
12.   It should be noted that the costs of funded, or capitalized, accounts are not the same as the costs
of currently financed benefits in macroeconomic terms. Currently financed benefits are a real tax-
transfer cost, competing with other government objectives. The opportunity costs for Russia, as for other
transition economies, of a large tax-transfer sector are very high. On the other hand, the contributions to
funded accounts, though clearly a reduction in current consumption, also represent an investment in the
economy, potentially raising the economy's long run growth rate. For these reasons, it probably makes
most sense to concentrate the "double burden" on younger workers, whose real wage growth is likely to
be the highest and who will be, along with their children, the beneficiaries of the increased investment.
C.     A third tier with one or more voluntary earnings-related pension regimes, which in the long
run should befully capitalized
13.   There may be up to four major variants, the common feature of which is that they are not
universal, but rather are products of employer decisions about compensation and/or individual choice.
14.   The four major variants under consideration are: (a) universally available private pension funds,
through which individuals on their own or through firms will create funded individual accounts. Some of
these funds will be "open" and others may be "closed" to only members of a given enterprise or sector;
(b) special purpose early retirement schemes, to which the early retirement obligations now in the central
system will be transferred. These schemes should initially be characterized as "state" rather than "non-
state" pensions, and may have infusions from the budget and/or may be financed by enterprises or
sectors through some combination of "funding" (capitalized with assets outside the sponsoring
employer(s)) and "book reserving" (a promise to pay from the sponsoring employer(s) own revenues);
(c) other (not just early retirement) "defined benefit" pension schemes, optimally capitalized but perhaps
also book-reserved, that are enterprise or sector-specific; and (d) special public sector schemes at the
municipal, oblast, and federal levels, some of which will be capitalized and some of which may depend
on current tax resources. It is unclear whether all of these government sector schemes will be fully
coordinated with the universal pension system, or whether, as is often the case, pensions for the military
and certain other groups subsume within themselves the basic level of support.
15.   The Bank's agenda with respect to the third tier will have to take account of the complexity of
the options, even though it varies from our normal advice to transition countries that they allow only
simple individual account plans that are fully capitalized. The Bank's main objectives in this area are to
assure that the various voluntary schemes are moving toward long term sustainability; that they are
capitalized as fully as possible; that whatever special laws or regulations exist for voluntary pensions fit
within with a coherent system of capital and financial market regulation; that income tax preferences for
retirement savings are generally available to individual plans as well as employer-sponsored schemes;
and that any exemption from the social tax is affordable from the public pension perspective and is not
used only for tax minimization purposes.
The SPAL and the reform agenda
16.   There are clearly a range of options and policy choices which will have to be made in
implementing systemic pension reform in Russia. In order to agree with the Government on the essential
elements of a reform package that would satisfy the SPAL conditionality, the project team has engaged



- 46 -
in extensive discussion with the authorities. Preliminary understandings have been reached on the core
program that would be acceptable within the Government resolution, and which would be subject to
SPAL supervision. At a minimum, the document should cover the following elements:
* options for recognizing past service liabilities under existing systems;
* options for dealing with early retirement privileges;
* issues with respect to the retirement age, including equalization between genders; link to life
expectancy; movements in initial age of eligibility versus reduced benefits at lower
retirement age that are actuarially neutral;
* options for how many cohorts are moved into a funded pillar over what period;
* mechanisms for financing transition costs, indicating possible use of privatization proceeds;
* design alternatives for the new system, including: (a) the relative balance between the
mandatory pillar and voluntary provision; (b) consequences for the size of the total
contribution rate; (c) the size of the funded pillar; (d) the extent to which an explicit PAYG
pillar would continue; (e) social adequacy issues, including the appropriate combination of
flat benefit, minimum benefit guarantee, and means-tested backup; and (f) years of
contribution requirements (e.g., minimum benefit eligibility);
* payment period issues, including :(a) indexation mechanisms for the public pension (price,
wage, hybrid); and (b) indexation requirements for annuities financed from funded accounts;
i options and proposed mechanisms for managing the funded pillar, including: (a) the degree
of decentralization; (b) regulatory structure and supervisory body; (c) transition mechanisms
prior to creation of regulatory agencies and pension funds; (d) entry rules; and (e)
participation of international pension administrators and/or investment managers;
* financial market preconditions (sound regulatory structure for banks, secondary market for
bonds); and
*  an education and communications strategy for promoting systemic reform.
17.    The analytic process would be accompanied by simulations of current costs; reformed PAYG
costs, and the costs of transition to a funded component (what percent of payroll, what cohorts on a
mandatory basis, and/or will cohorts be allowed to elect for participation in option with funded
component).



- 47 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 6: SOCIAL ASSISTANCE PILOTS BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.    A key component of the Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) is the development of pilots
to test alternative provision of social assistance on the local level. A working group has been set up to do
preliminary work on designing pilots for social assistance. The key implementing agencies are the local
departments of the Ministry of Social Protection and the oblast and raion administrations. The pilots will
provide a new local cash benefit for extremely poor families (where a poor family is defined as poor
when their consumption/income is below a certain percentage of the subsistence minimum (national
basket expressed in regional prices) or where family eligibility is determined by proxy indicators of
severe poverty (see below)).
Choice of Oblasts
2.    There is no exact science for choosing "the best" areas (oblasts, subjects of the Federation) for
the pilots. The key objective is to identify oblasts where local authorities are actively involved in social
policy or are willing to be involved, so that the pilots can be implemented. In particular, the Ministry of
Social Protection is working with local leadership in several oblasts which are already experimenting
with new types of social assistance, including means-testing benefits. Of course, other factors could also
be considered, ranging from the concrete (number of children or number of registered unemployed in the
oblast') through those more difficult to quantify (percent of the population which income below the
regional subsistence minimum) and the practical (distance from Moscow) to the judgmental (regions
where the local leadership is perceived as dynamic & willing to undertake the pilots).
3.    It was decided that the pilots should be undertaken in areas with poverty rates close to the
national poverty rate, but not in the absolute poorest oblasts which are already overwhelmed with social
assistance requirements. Furthermore, it was decided that at least one of the oblasts should be not too far
from Moscow. Most importantly, the choice of oblasts was conditioned on those with ongoing
experiments with social protection or those thought to be open to piloting new approaches. After
consultations with the government and preliminary discussions with the oblasts, the following were
selected: the Republic of Komi, Voronezh oblast, and Volgograd oblast.
Social Assistance
4.    Traditionally in Russia, social assistance efforts have focused on the non-working population,
since the able-bodied aged population was expected to work. To a certain extent, some of these
traditional categories of the poor are still vulnerable during the new transition conditions. For example,
children are a vulnerable group during transition. However, pensioners which were long thought to be
especially vulnerable, were not found to be particularly at risk for poverty (except for the approximately
one-quarter of pensioners who live alone -- primarily women). Moreover, during transition, a new
category of poor--the working poor--has emerged. Creating effective programs to help the working poor
is difficult, given low salaries and owing to complications with work incentives and poverty traps.



- 48 -
A Pilot Poverty Benefit
5.     Many  subjects of the Russian Federation have begun to require income-testing or at least
declarations of income for local benefits, and in all areas, the housing subsidy requires submission of
documentation of official income. The problem with means-testing in Russia, as in many other
countries, is how to account for income from businesses, land, and other assets, as well as the perennial
problem of informal sector income, since official wage income only accounts for a low share of total
income. In Russia, some areas have adopted a system of means-testing based on a formula for income
which captures some forms of income from assets (including the Ministry of Labor's income definition,
the SOTEKO approach, and others). Other areas use a different definition of income (such as the
traditional sovokupniy dokhod -- a definition of total money income of a family which includes the value
of sales of private plot produce but not the value of food consumed but not sold. On an ad hoc basis,
some subjects of the Federation have expanded the definition of sovokupniy dokhod to include the
imputed value of private plot produce produced and consumed by the family, but there is no standard
definition of this kind of income concept).
6.    In some other countries with large informal sectors, income-testing was viewed as the ultimate
goal, but an intermediate system was employed whereby eligibility for transfers and humanitarian
assistance was based on a family's combined score for different risk factors for poverty. Where poverty
correlates are clear (such as the number of children), such a scoring system can perform as well or better
than income-testing, which typically involves large administrative costs. It can also provide a bridge to
comprehensive means-testing. The advantage of scoring systems is that they can be used flexibly,
depending on the availability of funds for benefits. One can a priori determine a fixed benefit, divide the
total amount available by the fixed benefit, and determine the cutoff score under which families would
not be eligible. A more sophisticated approach would be set some lower bound, then divide the pot by
the total combined score of the eligible families, thus creating a ruble value for each family point. Thus,
a family with a very high score (lots of poverty correlates) would get a larger benefit than a family with a
lower score.
7.     Given the experimental nature of the proxy means test for Russia, it was decided to introduce
this proxy means methodology for eligibility criteria in only three raions of Volgograd with the
assistance of the author of its application to Volgograd, the Institute for Socio-Economic Studies of the
Population, while the rest of Volgograd oblast would use its traditional definition of income-testing
based on sovokupniy dokhod. In the Republic of Komi, a methodology measuring the full economic
potential of the family (already introduced by the firm SOTEKO) would be used, while Voronezh oblast
would use a categorical filter for its standard means-test (which includes its own methodology for
imputing the value of private plot consumption), developed in conjunction with the Institute for the Level
of Living of the Population.
Scope of the Pilots
8.     The main implementing agency for the pilots is the Ministry of Labor and Social Development in
cooperation with the regional (oblast and raion) administrations, and MLSD staff in local offices (social
assistance offices or SOBES offices) will be responsible for provision of the new pilot poverty benefit.
78    In addition, the social assistance offices (or the social department of the oblast administration in
those oblasts where the local offices of the formner Ministry of Social Protection, the former Ministry of
Labor, and other agencies have unified) could and should play a key role in referring social assistance



- 49 -
applicants to public works or micro-credit programs where applicable. Additionally, the local SOBES
should liaise with local NGOs and be able to refer clients to local NGOs where appropriate.
Child Allowances
9.    In principle, the payment of child allowances through the local social protection offices could be
integrated with the experimental approaches to targeting (means-testing based on an expanded income
definition, scoring system, means-testing based on official income) for children over the age of general
eligibility. This then would mean that improved targeting would be piloted/tested for both the poverty
benefit and potentially for child allowances. Thus, a family should only have to apply once at the local
social assistance office (a one-stop shop) to determine its eligibility for all benefits.
Social Services
10.   Currently, social services (and various in-kind and very occasionally cash benefits) are financed
on the local level. Since localities face differing economic conditions, there is great variation in the
provision of social services. Furthermore, localities use a variety of ad hoc mechanisms for determining
eligibility for social services. For the pilot projects, the same eligibility criteria as for the pilot poverty
benefit could be used for social services where appropriate.
Financing
11.    A system of co-financing between the regional budgets and the Federal budget is envisaged for
the cost of benefits to be paid out. The pilot regions have accepted covering the local administrative
costs themselves, except where costs are eligible for financing under the components of the SPIL or
other channels of external financing.
Evaluation
12.   Currently, there are some regions which are quite diligent about reporting their innovations in
social protection to central Ministries, and others which are not. Obviously, evaluation is a key
component because without evaluation, the pilots can not be assessed. There are two major kinds of
assessments which are necessary: a sample survey ex ante and ex post to measure quantitative/economic
outcomes; and an ex post qualitative beneficiary assessment to assess the effectiveness of the pilot
programs. Under the SPAL, the Government should prepare a progress report on the implementation of
the pilot schemes by third tranche, including recommendations on better use of resources for assistance
to vulnerable groups.
13.    Given the problems with measuring income, and the unreliability of household survey data on
income in all countries with extensive informal sectors, household welfare measures should be based on
consumption (expenditures plus the imputed value of food produced on private plots). Goskomstat
Rossii is able to conduct such a survey in any oblast due to its network of interviewers. Separate terms
of reference will be drawn up for this task to be eligible for financing under a component of the SPIL.
Briefly, this will be an abridged form of a household consumption and program participation survey
(consisting of questions on the composition of the household, household expenditures, food from private
plots, and a detailed section on benefits & social assistance) which will generate enough data to comprise
a poverty profile and incidence analysis.



- 50-
14.    The beneficiary assessment is a different task, and will require the assistance of a trained
facilitator (often an anthropologist or sociologist) with experience in the use of semi-structured
interviews and focus groups. Again, separate terms of reference will be required. These studies will be
eligible for financing from other sources as appropriate.



- 51 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 7: MAJOR FINDINGS OF THE POVERTY ASSESSMENT AND THE SPAL
1.    A Poverty Assessment was undertaken for Russia in 1995, and updated a year later using more
recent data from a nationally representative household survey and other research 3. These followed a
social sector review which was completed in 1994. The findings of these reports were basic inputs to the
design of the SPAL, assisting in focusing the conditionality on interventions that targeted the poor and
vulnerable, and also addressing administrative and systemic problems. This annex gives a brief
summary of the main findings of the reports, and how the SPAL conditionality responds to them.
2.     Poverty profile: Based on four rounds of the household survey carried out between mid-1992
and the end of 1995, it is clear that the overall level of poverty has fluctuated since 1992, (table A7.1).
In 1992, the poverty headcount for households was around 25%. This rose to almost 32% in 1993,
before falling again to 27% in 1994. However, there was another sharp increase in 1995, with the
headcount by the end of the year up to 35%. Other surveys show broadly similar results but the official
numbers from Goskomstat Rossii have recently shown slightly lower headcounts. (Goskomstat Rossii is
planning to revise its survey methodology with assistance financed by the proposed Bureau of Economic
Analysis project). The rate of severe poverty (defined as those with expenditure less than 50% of the
household specific poverty line) has also fluctuated, and was around 11% at the end of 1995. Due to the
larger average size of poor households, this results in around 41% of individuals living in poverty.
Table A7:1 Dynamics of household and individual poverty in Russia, 1992-end 1995
Expenditure-base poverty measure           1992      1993       1994       1995
Headcount for households                   25.2%     31.9%      26.8%      35.0%
Headcount for individuals                 26.8%      36.9%      30.9%      41.1%
Depth of poverty (a)                      9.8        13.6       11.7       13.2
Source: Russian Living Standards Monitoring Survey, various years.
(a) Measured by povcrty gap index.
3.    It has been consistently found that the poorest groups in Russia are households with children, and
those with an unemployed household member. This pattern has in fact become more pronounced over
time, as poverty rates among these groups have risen faster than those for the general population. By the
end of 1995, households with children under 18 years old were had poverty rate almost 50% higher than
the general population, and those with even one unemployed member had poverty headcounts more than
15 points above the national average.
4.    In contrast, households with pensioners have not been found to have high poverty rates on
average, a finding which is consistent with poverty assessments throughout the FSU. The reasons for
this include the better retention of the real value of pensions relative to wages, the incidence of
pensioners who both work and receive full pensions, and the larger stock of assets owned by pensioners
at the start of the transition. However, there are sub-groups of pensioners who are very poor, particularly
those living alone, who are predominantly women.
3 See Poverty in Russia: An Assessment (World Bank, 1995); Poverty Analysis in Russia: What can we learnfrom
the RLMS, Round 6 ? (Kolev for World Bank, 1996).



- 52 -
5.     Another important finding from the time series data is that there is high mobility in and out of
poverty, suggesting that many poor households are poor due to income shocks which they are often able
to overcome in time.
Table A7.2: Poverty rates by household characteristics and household types as share of total, end-1995
Household characteristic        Poverty rate   Severe poverty rate  Share of households
(a)               nationally
Number of children
0                               23.4%          6.4%              52.3%
l                              42.0%           12.9%             25.9%
2                               52.0%          18.0%             18.0%
3 or more                       66.9%          26.5%             3.8%
Number of pensioners
0                               40.9%          12.8%             54%
1                               31.3%          10.1%             30.5%
2 or more                       22.3%          6.4%               15.5%
Number of unemployed adults
0                               32.0%          9.3%              83.5%
1                               48.8%          17.8%             14.2%
2 or more                       61.0%          26.8%             2.3%
Source: Russian Living Standards Monitoring Survey, Round 6. N  3,554
(a) Severe poverty defined as expenditures less than 50% of household specific poverty line
6.     This poverty profile provided the basis for discussion with the Russian government on policy
reforms which would address the needs of poor Russian households. Social transfers are a very
significant share of household incomes. At the end of 1995, public transfers accounted for 29% of total
household income, even excluding transfers from enterprises and certain benefits from local authorities.
For those receiving some transfer, the share was even higher at 42%, and for the very poor the share
averaged 47%. The Government and the Bank therefore agreed on the critical social and fiscal
implications of reforms to social transfers.
7.     Child poverty and policy: Household with children not only have a high poverty incidence, but
account for the largest group of the poor in Russia. At the end of 1995, around 52% of households with
children under 18 were poor, and 18% were very poor. The result is even more striking for the sub-set of
households with children under 6 years old, which had a poverty rate of almost 58%, and a severe
poverty rate of around 23%. In addition, household are more likely to be poor the more children they
have.
8.     The finding of substantially higher rates of poverty and severe poverty among households with
children was also tested through multivariate (probit) analysis, in order to separate out the impact of
children from other factors which might also contribute to the living standards of these households. This
was particularly important given the higher likelihood of households with many children belonging to
non-Slavic ethnic minorities, so that high poverty rates might have been explained by geographic and
other factors other than the presence of children. As expected, the statistical coefficients for the number
of children in the probit analysis were all positive and highly significant. The presence of an additional
child in the household increases the predicted probability of being poor by 17% of the child is under 6,
and by 12% if the child is between 6 and 17 years old.
9.     The dynamics of poverty among households with children made it even more important that this
group was addressed by SPAL conditionality. For example, between 1994 and 1996, the overall
headcount index increased by around 8 percentage points. During the same period, poverty increased by
14 points for household with one child, 16 points among those with two children, and 15 points for those



- 53 -
with three or more children. For families with one or more children under six years, the increase in the
period was over 19 points. The figures demonstrate a concentration of poverty among households with
children. An additional finding of the poverty analysis was that child allowances presently are the least
well-administered social transfer. At the end of 1995, the percentage of eligible households not
receiving child allowances was 33% among the poor, and around 24% among the non-poor.
10.   The SPAL conditionality attempts to address the issue of child poverty in a number of ways.
First and most important, the federal government is required to finance child allowances for all children
up to age three. This should help address the serious problem of arrears on payment of child allowances,
which are presently financed from local budgets, and are less able to be afforded in poorer areas. As the
likelihood of eligible households not receiving child allowances varies significantly by region and
whether a household is rural or urban, this should promote equity among the target group which is
subject to the federal guarantee.
11.   Second, the SPAL requires the Government to allow means-testing of child allowances for
children 4-18 as a condition of Board presentation. This should allow regions which can afford to
finance child allowances for this group to use resources in a more efficient manner, and to provide a
higher average benefit to poor households than would otherwise be possible under universal eligibility.
12.   Third, there are a number of loan conditions which should improve the administration of child
allowances, including the ability of Government to monitor payment. These are: (i) the Government has
committed to channeling the federally financed child allowance transfers to regions through special
budgetary accounts which for the first time will allow specific monitoring of funds flows down to the
recipient level. This will allow an updated and clear picture of when and where funds allocated for child
allowance payments are not reaching their intended beneficiaries, which should contribute to improved
delivery of benefits. This monitoring is explicitly provide for in the third tranche; and (ii) conditionality
by Board, the Government is to approve the legal framework for transferring child allowance payments
from enterprises to local social protection offices. This should improve the efficiency of benefit
delivery, and be of particular relevance in areas where enterprises are in the worst situations and are less
likely to be paying allowances.
13.   Poverty among the unemployed: As noted above, the unemployed have been consistently
found to be at greater risk of poverty than the general population. For households with only one
unemployed member, the poverty rate was 49% at the end of 1995, and rose to over 60% for households
with 2 or more unemployed adults. Similarly, if the household head was unemployed, the poverty rate
was 53%. These results are confirmed by multivariate analysis, which found that each unemployed adult
in a household increases the risk of poverty by almost 10%. As with households with children, the
situation of households with unemployed members deteriorated more than average during 1995.
14.   A further important finding on unemployment benefits was that they accounted for a significant
share of household income for those receiving them. During 1995, the share of household income from
UB increased from less than 22% to 37%. In addition, the share of all households receiving UB
increased more than six times during the same period.
15.   The PA also revealed that there were significant flows in and out of poverty over relatively short
periods. Although the aggregate composition of poverty did not change dramatically between survey
rounds, large numbers of individual households moved in and out of poverty and even severe poverty.
For example, nearly half the very poor households in the first round of the survey were no longer poor a
year later, while one quarter of non-poor households had become so. This suggests that the social



- 54 -
insurance function of unemployment benefit could have a crucial role in alleviating temporary household
poverty arising as a result of shocks to the household budget.
16.   The SPAL conditionality takes this situation into accounting a number of ways: (i) the minimum
level of UB is required to be increased by legislation which will tie its level to a share of the regional
subsistence income; (ii) audits of the Employment Fund will be introduced, to ensure that available
resources are used as efficiently as possible; (iii) there will be a mandatory centralization of EF revenues,
rising to 30% of receipts by third tranche. This should help to protect UB payments in poorer areas by
reallocating revenues between regions.
17.   Living standards of pensioners: As noted, pensioners are not on average poorer than the
general population. The poverty rate for households with one pensioner at the end of 1995 was around 4
points below the national average, and for households with 2 or more pensioners, the poverty rate was 13
points below average. Nevertheless, a significant share of pensioners are acutely poor, particularly those
living alone. This is reflected in part by the gender differentials in poverty rates among pensioners, with
pensioner women (more likely to be living alone and to be older) having a poverty rate at the end of 1995
that was around 30% higher than for males.
18.   The SPAL conditionality deals with this mixed poverty profile of pensioners by emphasizing the
minimum pension at the expense of those receiving higher pensioners. The introduction and defense of a
pension floor is likely to be achieved mainly through compression of the pension structure, so that
increased minimum pensions for poor pensioners will be financed at the expense of better-off pensioners.
The conditionality in each tranche ensures that the minimum pension will then be subject to regular
indexation and be adequately financed.
19.   A second important way in which the SPAL address the mixed poverty profile of pensioners is
by structuring the systemic pension reform so that the first publicly financed tier of the three tier system
will be a poverty alleviation benefit, which ensures that pensioners who for whatever reason do not have
adequate private pension contributions are guaranteed a minimum level of social protection.



PHRD                    PDL (ActUv. May 30.July 1)               ESSP                            SPIL PPF                            SPIL
PENSIONS      1.Consutataon visitsfrom         I. en-ior po cyaVl  tOMLbU       1. Expanomputenza onof           lAuditof 1996 PF                 1.AuditoflIg7and 1998 PF
Poland/Hungary (1month)         with emphasis on regulatory      pension delivery
matters (6months)                                                2. Implementation of task force  2. implementabon of task force
2. 1-2 day workshops on specific                                                                  action plan to improve PF        action plan to improve PF
themes, w. intl experts         2. Urgent pension work including                                  collection                       collection (con't)
(i) pension modeling using
3. TOR written for PF Audits     ko  consultants to finalize Gvt                                  3. TA on drafting of concept     3. TA on drafting concept
pension model and intebational                                   paper and legislation on         paper and legislation on
consultant to validate and                                       systemic pension reform         systemic pension reform (conl)
expand Gvt model; and
(ii) Assess PF:s individual                                      4. Public Information Program    4. Communications program (con't)
worker account initiaive using
lcal and foreign experts                                         5. Preparation of pension        5. Preparation of pension
administration loan induding    administration loan (cont) including
payment system, financial        legal framework to regulate fund
management and training         managers; regulatory framework               ;Z
for voluntary schemes;
monitoring and enforcement;
development of a pension                    X
yearbook                                    00
6. Actuary Institute
SOCIAL        1.-Pilots: loal training and monitorng  I. Pilots: consultng services in 3  1 Pilots: computenzation, equipping,                   1 PIlots:Local delivery of social services
ASSISTANCE   capacity develpment               oblasts                         federal and local levels                                           research and feasibility study
2. Review of legal privledges, grants                                                             2. Pilots: evaluation & dissemination
and allowances at the regionalVlocal                                                              including beneficiary assessments           O
level
CHILD              -1 Computerization of benefit payout
ALLOWANCES                                                                                                                                       in 5 oblasts
2. TA and training for the transfer of 
child allowance payments to the             C
local SA offices and the strengthening      I
of local social offices                     O
3. Nabtional Dissemination on child
aloowance transfer experience               C
UNEMP.        1. TOR writen for EF Audit       1. TA to improve efficiency of                                    1. Audit of 1996 EF              1. Audit of 1997 and 1998 EF
ASSIST.                                        Employment Service and of the
Employment Fund relating to the                                  2. Development of an impact      2. Introduction of the impact
centralization of EF funds and                                   evaluation mechanism to          evaluation mechanism: materials,            4
review of financing procedures                                   determine the effects of new     equipment, training
employment legislation_
2. Short term TA to amend the existing                                                                                                        u
Employment Law to improve EF                                      3. TA on drafting of new labor  3. TA on drafting of new labor
resource use including                                           code                             code (cont)
(a) compression of UB structure
(b) reduction of the duration                                                                     4. Programs aimed at long-term
of benefit payments and (c) restrictions                                                          unemployed
on eligibility
5. TA to prepare tokift on organizing
local public works proarams



PHRD                   POL (Actv. ay 30-July 1)                 ESSP                           SPIL PPF                           SPIL
SOC^IAL                                                                                                                                        1. MLSD nitonng anr reportng
PROTECTION                                                                                                                                     system of al regaional and national
socia transfers
2. Regular monitoring and analysis
in the areas of pensions, unemployment
and poverty
3. Housing allowance and means
testing
4. National Survey of Household
Welfare and Program Participation
5. Review of public and private
programs directed at child protection
handicapped, homeless and other
NOTE: This actlyrdes listed and the funding sources are not fnal and sublect to chanog                                                         vulnerable groups
v.1



- 57-
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 9: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                      22 months, June 1995 - April, 1997
Prepared by:                               Government with the assistance of IBRD staff
and consultants
First IBRD mission:                        June 1995
Appraisal mission:                         April 1997
Negotiations:                               May 1997
Planned date of effectiveness:             June 1997
Expected program completion:               June 1998






- 59 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 10: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RUSSIA
Russia - IFC and MIGA Program, FY94-97
Past
Category                            1994          1995         1996          1997
IFC approvals (US$m)'               28.20        108.32        63.35        70.05
Sector (%)
Cement & Construction               0.00         0.00          56.00        0.00
Financial Services                  46.00        49.00         30.00         14.00
Food & Agro-Business                0.00          13.00        0.00         57.00
Indust &,Consumer Svcs              27.00        0.00          0.00         0.00
Infrastructure                      27.00        0.00          50.00        0.00
Manufacturing                       0.00         0.00          14.00        0.00
Mining & Minerals                   0.00         0.00          0.00         29.00
Timber, Pulp & Paper                0.00         38.00         0.00         0.00
TOTAL                            100.00        100.00       100.00        100.00
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                          20.00         33.00        55.00         84.00
Equity                         55.00         54.00        45.00         12.00
Quasi-Equity b                 7.00          5.00         0.00          4.00
Other                          18.00         9.00         0.00          0.00
TOTAL                               100.00        100.00       100.00        100.00
MIGA guarantees (US$m)              9.00         9.00          109.00        158.00
MIGA commitments (US$m)             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
"Excludes AEF projects.
bIncludes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



- 60 -
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-97
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
---IFC                                 -IFC
FY              Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Approval
1993      Intl Moscow Bank              14.10      0.00     0.00     0.00    2.10     0.00    0.00     0.00
1993      Polar Lights                  33.95      0.00     0.00     0.00   33.95     0.00    0.00     0.00
1993      Vasyugan                       5.63      0.00     1.50     0.00    5.63     0.00    1.50     0.00
1994      Framlington Fund               0.00      8.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00     0.00
1994      Russia Registry                0.00      1.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00     0.00
1994      RTDC                           0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00
1995      A.O. Volga                    30.00     11.00     0.00    39.38   30.00    11.00    0.00    39.38
1995      Depsona Z.A.O.                 5.30      1.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00     0.00
1995      First NIS Fund                 0.00     15.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00
1995      Russ Tech Fnd                  0.00      2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      .50    0.00     0.00
1995      SCF                            0.00      4.53     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.14    0.00     0.00
1996      Alpha Cement                   0.00     13.49     0.00     0.00    0.00    13.49    0.00     0.00
1996      Pioneer First                  0.00      4.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.00    0.00     0.00
1996      UNEXIM Bank                   15.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997      Aminex RUS                    17.00      3.05     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.05    0.00     0.00
Pending Commitrnents
1996      * ALPHA CEMENT                20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1997      * DEPSONA B LOAN               0.00      0.00     0.00     5.20
1997      * INTL. BOTTLERS              35.00      5.00     0.00    10.00
1997      * NIKITAS BROKER.              7.00      .01      0.00     0.00
1997      * TROIKA DIALOG                0.00      0.00     2.99     0.00
1995      * VOLGA FUND                   0.00     20.00     0.00     0.00



-61 -
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference                Last ARPP
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    Between expected       Supervision Rating b/
Loan     Fiscal                                                                                                                    and actual      Development  Implementation
Project ID     or        Year               Borrower                    Purpose            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/  Objectives           Progress
Credit
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 7
Active Loans
RU-PE-8809   L36233      1993    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               OIL REHAB.                 10.00        0.00            0.00          8.49               -1.51        U               U
RU-PE-8809   L36232      1993    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               OIL REHAB.                170.00        0.00            0.00         39.90             -130.10        U               U
RU-PE-8809   L36231      1993    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               OIL REHAB.                158.00        0.00           41.60         12.03             -104.37        U               U
RU-PE-8809   L36230      1993    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               OIL REHAB.                272.00        0.00          142.15          3.88              146.09        U               U
RU-PE-8810   L35460      1993    GOVT OF RUSSIA                   PRIVATIZATION              90.00        0.00            0.00         37.81               37.81        S               S
RU-PE-8822   L35320      1993    GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA             EMPLOYMENT SERV. & S       70.00        0.00           10.00         33.71               43.71        S               U
RU-PE-8805   L37682      1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               OIL REHAB. II              90.40        0.00            0.00          5.75              -84.65        U               S
RU-PE-8805   L37681       1994    RUSSIAN PEDERATION              OIL REHAB. II              51.10        0.00            4.72          4.88              -41.49        U               S
RU-PE-8805   L37680       1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              OIL REHAB. II              24.70        0.00             0.00         5.40              -19.30        U               S
RU-PE-8805   L3768C       1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              OIL REHAB. II               99.60       0.00             0.00        96.07               -3.53        U               S
RU-PE-8805   L3768B       1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              OIL REHAB. II             108.90        0.00             0.00        99.84               -9.06        U               S
RU-PE-8805   L3768A       1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              OIL REHAB. II             125.30        0.00             0.00       124.47              123.46        U               S
RU-PE-8839   L3763A       1994    GOVT. OF RUSSIA                 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT        196.00        0.00             0.00       191.14               90.52        S               U
RU-PE-8811   L37570       1994    REP.OP RUSSIAN FED.             AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.       240.00        0.00           30.00        200.30              155.30        U               U
RU-PE-34579  L37560       1994    REP OF RUSSIAN FED              LAND REFORM IMPL. SU        80.00       0.00             0.00        72.03               42.71        U               U
RU-PE-6828   L3734A       1994    MOF                             FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO    187.62          0.00            0.00        172.40              152.05        S               U
RU-PE-8808   L37060       1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              HIGHWAY REHAB & MAIN    300.00          0.00             0.00       152.38               24.06        KS              S
RU-PE-8806   L38850       1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              URBAN TRANSPORT           329.00        0.00             0.00       210.74               61.74        S               S
RU-PE-8803   L38760       1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY    106.50          0.00           36.50         70.00               53.58        U               U
RU-PE-40409  L38726       1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT       29.60        0.00            0.00         26.59               -3.01        S              HS
RU-PE-38572  L38530      199S    GOVT. OF RUSSIA                  TAX ADMINISTRATION         16.80        0.00            0.00         16.21                8.59        U               U
RU-PE-8827   L3850A      1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               HOUSING                   363.72        0.00            0.00        350.01              -13.71        S               S
RU-PE-8823   L38440      1995    GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA             PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN       40.00        0.00             0.00        34.60               25.17        U               U
RU-PE-8826   L38240      1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               MANAGEMENT AND FINAN       40.00        0.00            0.00         30.60                1.48        S               S
RU-PE-8821   L38060      1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME    110.00          0.00             0.00        90.46               -6.94        S               S
RU-PE-45622  L40590      1996    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               COAL IAP                   25.00        0.00            0.00         23.63                  .33       S               S
RU-PE-8831   L40350      1996    GOVT. OF RUSSIA                  LEGAL REFORM PROJECT        58.00       0.00             0.00        57.31                4.48        S               S
RU-PE-38571  L40330      1996    GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA             MEDICAL EQUIPMENT         270.00        0.00            0.00        256.36               -6.97        S               S
RU-PE-42622  L40290      1996    GOVT. OF RUSSIAN FEDERATI    CAPITAL MARKET DEV.            89.00        0.00             0.00        89.00                1.67        S               S
RU-PE-36973  L40120       1996    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              ENTP.HOUSING DIVESTI    300.00          0.00             0.00       298.14                2.48        5               5
RU-PE-35761  L40090      1996    GOVT. OF RUSSIA                  COMMU,NITY SOCIAL INF    200.00         0.00             0.00       194.66                  .33       S               S
RU-PE-35764  L39900       1996    RUSSIAN FEDERATION              BRIDGE REHABILITATIO    350.00          0.00             0.00       347.91               46.18        S               S
RU-PE-8837   L39610      1996    GOVT OF RUSSIA                   STANDARDS DEVELOP.          24.00       0.00             0.00        23.62                2.09        S               s
RU-PE-42720  L41440      1997    RUSSIAN FEDERATION               ST. PETERSBURG REHAB        31.00       0.00             0.00        31.00                0.00
Total                                                                                     4,656.25        0.00          264.97      3,411.33              599.19



- 62 -
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               979.94           1,822.05            2,801.99
of which has been repaid:                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA;             4,391.28            1,822.05           6,213.33
Amount sold                                      0.00               0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                              0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed                           3,411.33                0.00           3,411.33
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS . highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU , highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 63 -
ANNEX 11: RUSSIAN FEDERATION AT-A-GLANCE
POVERTYand SOCIAL                             Russaia   Central middle-
Federadon      Asia  ncome
P puionn-19S5{n               U8i        4U    i 1U  -- ~~~~Dev*1opmentclimond*
ipluatio  m1d-1995 (m"ans)                       148.2.    4ft   1,154      Deeomndloe
GWP per capit 195 (USS. Atlas rnma               2,2230    2.240  1t700
ONP 1995 (bilons US., sAlAbs conrsion hcb)       330.5 1S,03   1,962                  L*
Aveag anuarowth, 19S0945
*boPulaIon (1V)                                    0.0      0.4      1.4
Labort farce (~,Russla 1992-05)                    0.9       08.     1.0
Grons
trec   eatimate (ilatet y.availbf sInce 1989).                             GNP
Pivey hdcouwn index   dp @PcpAelb                  25         .                                          enrolmert
Ujban populaion (I oflpopubdonj.                   73       .8.    58  C.p\/                         
ule _apcbcy atbi,ther ls)                         .65        68      67
lbnt modt (per 1,000 " blHhs)                      16        23     .36
Chld malnulition (% ofd clrn l r 1.r.;ar-
cess to a wat     odpopuu                           ..       ..      78
ray (% of populaton age.15+)                       0.2       ..       .Acc  to sae water
,Gross primy enrollment (% dXof p oopIoIpIu        94      . 97     104                -RunFedeon
97     105
97     101                -  Low*~middle-ncxvwn. gro-
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONO0TERM.TRENDS
1975    1985.  1994    1995        E o  
.....   .  ....    ...                    .           ... ~~~~~~~~~Economic ratloe
GOP (biSon US& at ma*ot oxcJnge :a                  ...     277.0   3S7.5
Gross domesc hnvemn GDP                    .        .      25.5    25.9
lxports of goods & non4ctor servicG                 . ..G:P.    28.4    28.         OpnnesS of eooy
:Gross domestc savings/GOP                                 30.9    28.6
Gross national savings/GDP                           ..  29.4    27.2
C:re  ac.n b.a.caGDP                              . .                1.3
rest payments/GDP  a)                                ;      1.8      1.8
Tobtal  G7DP                                               44.0    33.7      SavIngs         3Investnt
ota debt sevcxports a) b)                                  25.4    19.5
Preshnt vae of debttGDP                      .
Preent value of debseports 
1975404 198545    1994      1995 1996404                 Indebtednes
'fivitaw *fwa gmww&h
OQP P                                       _   -12.6       4.3      3.8               -R       n feraton
GWP psr cap                                  ;   -12.7      -4.1     3.7
Export of goods and nis                           11.t      6.0      3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1994    1995
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 9.2      9.2     Growth ttes of output and Invstmets (%i
Industry                                                   39.5    41.7
Manufcuring                                                                    r .
Servkes                                                    51.3    49 .1        2
Private consumpton                                         52.1    57.3               n          02 n4   Is
General govemmont consumpton                               17.1    14.1
Imports of goods and non-factor sevic                      23.1    23.6          -_                    _a_ r
197644 1985-96      1994    1995
(average annual growth)
Agicultur.                                                  -9 .0    -6.0     Growth rats of exports and import (%I
industrY                                                  -20.9    -7.8      20
Manufacturng                                                                is
Services                                                   -30      -3.9      e,
0
Privat conurmption                          . *.              .2 ..          .6 
Total consunption                                          -7.2    -2.5      -to
Gross dormetic investnent                                  -29.3    -4.1     .'5
inmports of goods and non-factor servces                    3.5    17.1      .o
Grs natbon product                                        -12.8    -4.2                          E      -    h'ot
The dinaonds show four key Indicators in the country OIn bold) compared with ts incorn-group avrage. f data are missing, th diamond wil
be incornplet.
a) Scheduled payment before dobt relief.
b) Exports of goods and servces.



- 64 -
Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1075    1985      1994    1995    Infation 1%)
Dam eatic pole..
(X chang)                                                                     15D0
Consumer prices                                             303.2   189.2    I
Implicit GDP deflator                                       307.2   179.0   10/0
Govenment finance                                                              50:1
(% of GOP)
Current revenue                                              36.7    32.7       o
Current budget balance                                       -4.0    -0.9              o     1   02    3   04   is
Oveall surpusideficit                        ..      ..   -11.3    -8.1                            -GDPdo.  >CPI
TRADE
S176    1985      1994    1995      Export and Impo*t levels imill US$)
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                                        69,800  81.500      e00o000
Petroleum, crude and processed                           15,442  17.437
Natural gas                                              11.703  13,390        7Sooo 
Manufactures                                                                                             _ 
Total imports (fob)                                        48. . 4500  54,000   so.ou 00
Food                                        .
Fuel and energy                                      , ..     ..       .       2-|-|_i-
Capfita goods                               .
Export price index (1987wOO)                .0 ..             0. ..                                        0   52
Import price index (1987w100)                ..
Terms of trade (1987100)                     ..      ..        ..       ..                            DEot    mpos
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1075    1985      1994    1996
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and non4actor services                    78 600  93,900      Current acount balance to GDP rato l%)
Imports of goods and nonfactor services                    63.900  84.500   4.0
Resource balance                                           14,700   9,400
Net factor Income                                          -4,100  -5,000   3-0
Net cuent transfers                                           -58     168
Current account balance,                                                     2.0
before captal transers                                   10,542   4,568
Financing tems (net)                                      -14,611     361    o0
Changes in net reseves                                      4,069  -4,929                   Fo ,
Memo:                                                                             so   Si   92   93   94   e5
Reserves Including gold (miO USS)            ..      ..    6,519  17,311
Market exchange rate (boceVS$)               ..      ..    2,205   4,562
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
197S    1S86      1994    1995
(milions USSJ
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      121.922 120,460
IBRO                                                       684    1,524   composition of total db, 19s95 Imill. USS)
IDA                                                         0        0
Total debt service paid                                     3,674   6,303                         A
IBRD                                                         38      57  |                    1524   c
IDA                                                          O 0      0                                  198
Composon of netresourcewolows
Capital transfrs, nt                                        800    -300
Official creditors                                                5.363
Privat creditors                                              .     740         F
Foreign dired Investment                                   637   2.017        33"4
Portfolio equity                                                . -1,434
World Bank program                           .                                         \/                    E
Commitments                                               1,590    1,635                                 64503
Disbursements                                              283      840
Principal repayments                                       2830       0    A - IBRO                   E. B-etereF
Net flows                                  .        ..     283      640    B . IDA    0 - Othew multilateral  F.- Private
Interest payments                                            38      57   c -IMF                      G -Short40rm
Net transersm                                              245      783  1                                         1
Russia Country Opr7ations Dvision and International Economics Department      mAvicotarbloA&ag\RuSx2aa&xl&     4/11197
Note: Estimates for economies of the fomer Soviet repubiks are subect to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



18RD 271 88R
Th. bundri.s, colors d-ooinahoes          !                                                                                                                      -uneD STATES OF AMEf ICA
fhlstm -rp sd.nh .& i oni, -o . p                                                                          R USSIAIN    FEDERATION
Th. WortJd Ban Grk-p ..y i                                                                                                                                                                                    Chak
onSl  soay .frts7ryor                                                                          REPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS, OKRUGS
'aah  basaS .                                                                    NATIONAL  CAPITAL                                                             2                                       B    rN iP   g
RIVERS                                                                                                                  S.I
-       ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
-       OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
KINGDOM          >>.            No   a g.      s a                                            .P.e                ------  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                           . S;'ar,aa
'kAgAV      ak AS4".A. K- -o..Ss,        , -sS d*akaai, 
N I h
Sac                4-               B'                                                                      C sO                      'bL                                                                         ;_
NORWAY 
SWEDEN                                              5
GERMANY5
`1 ,,~~~~~~~~~1                              ,r3
ROMANIA       "'      N    -            1        3
alVSe_;C uniuA,o;A
38  ~~~~~  7    ~ ~~~~  JX    ''a ~~~~~~~~~~c  64                                                                       .~~~~~~~~,<X 
1. NORTH         11 NORTHWEST                 111 CENTRAL               IV CENTRAL              V NORTH CAUCASUS            VI. VOLGA            VII. VOLGO-VYAThA       VIII URAL           SX WESTERN SIBERIA    X. EASTERN S1RERIA        Xl FAR EAST
1. ArkhosngelI   7. Nongorad            12. Bryaask  22. Tuslo             CHERNOZYOM           30. Ch.da.a                40. Astrakhan         48. Chuvoash           53. EasI'Isrtastaa   61. AlIai              70. BoayoM              80. Amur,
2. N.a.pa      8 Psksov               13. Ivonov   23. Vladim.ir      25. R.Ig.rad           31. DagI'aszn               41. Kaiaykiasa      .49 Kirov                54. Chi.yabinsls       62. G.rayAlt.,       71 Ch~ia                RI. Kaa,chatIo
3. Kordir        9. Leningrod            14. Kaluga   24. YaaosIavI     26. Kus                 32. IngunI'                    Khoalmg Tangch'    50. Mariy El           55. Kargan          63. Kenora.,.              72. Agin Earyal        82. Ka.yak
4. Komi          10. St.9.Irsbnrg City    15. Kosts..,,                 27. LipoNsk             33. KaIard,na-3olkar       42. Penzo             51. Mordov              56. Orenaburg       64. Naasil,ir,sk       73.1Irkubsk             83. Khakoraask
5 M,srnsnsk                              16. MoscRa.                    28. Tambov              34. Krazsnadar             43. Samraar           52. NiaI'aiy Novgorod    57. P.ram          65. O...k                  74. Uai-Ordyn Ess,yat    84. Jeac,sI AO
6. Vologdo                               17. Moscow CUyh 29. Vo..ah                                35. Ad78.,.              44. Saraton                                     58. Koa*-Permiak 66. Tomsk              75. Krasnoyorsk         85. Mogodon
18 Orel                                               36. North Ossetia          45. Tao,,ton                                 59. Udn,orn          67. Tymen                 76. Ea.ak               86 CI'ukot
I 19. Ryaza0n                                          37. Rosto.                 46 Volyog5rsd                                60. Sv.rdio'rsk         68. Klranty-Mansi      77. Kh'akos          87 Primoarsksi
20. Sa.aInsk                                          38. Strovropol             47. Ulyonavsls                                                       69. Yamalo-Nenets       78. Taimnir         88. SakhaIia
11. Kohrningrod        21 Tvsr                                                   39. Kaaocho.no-Ch,rlsss                                                                                           79. Tuo.                89. Socho (Yakul)
I          X   7D
ROMANIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME    9









IMAGING
Ty    Nd  P         7148   RU
Type:     PR



