Report No. PID5638
Project Name                     Russia-Proposed Social Protection...
Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Social Assistance
Project ID                       RUPE38573
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Principal Responsible Entities   Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Labor and Social Development
# 9 Ilimka Street
103097 Moscow
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           June 12, 1997
Project Appraised                March 21, 1997
Board Approval Date              June 25, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Russia's transition to a market economy has been both
wrenching and chaotic. Implementation of reforms has fluctuated
from boldly market-oriented (e.g., capital markets development) to
being captured by vested interest groups (e.g., case-by-case
privatization) to near stagnation (e.g. agriculture). Average
annual inflation remained high for most of the period, reaching a
peak above 1300w during 1992 and falling below 100w only in 1996;
measured GDP has fallen by 40t in real terms since 1991 and still
fell by 6t in 1996; and there has been a dramatic increase in
poverty, and various surveys indicate that despite some recent
improvements 25-35w of the population are living in poverty.
Notwithstanding the short-term fluctuations in policymaking and the
dramatic decline in output, it is clear that a major economic
transformation has taken place in Russia over the last several
years. Over 70t of GDP is now produced in the private sector;
prices and trade have been essentially liberalized; the monthly
rate of inflation has dropped to below 2t on average for the past
12 months; and a trade surplus of US$23 billion was recorded in
1996. Recently, Russia returned to the international capital
markets with two Eurobond issues of US$ 1 billion and DM2 billion
respectively.
2.      There have been severe social costs of economic and
institutional transition in Russia. Since 1992, real money incomes
and output have fallen by over 40w, and a gradual widening in
income distribution among population groups and between regions has
occurred. High average monthly rates of inflation have adversely
affected the population, especially those on fixed incomes. Real
earnings have fallen, and in 1996 real wages averaged less than
half their level in 1991. In 1996, only some 40t of the work force
was paid fully and on time. Unemployment, including disguised



unemployment and underemployment, is now estimated to be close to
15 percent.
3.      Pensions, unemployment benefits, child allowances and social
assistance programs and short-term sickness and maternity benefits
absorbed some 8t of GDP in 1995. In addition, enterprises and local
authorities (oblast level) provide an array of social benefits,
ranging from subsidized housing and utilities to cheap food and
vacations. While income from formal and informal sector activities
is the primary form of support for the majority of the population,
the formal social safety net also plays an important role for many
households. On average, public transfers accounted for 16.7t of
household income at the start of 1996. Private transfers have
always been an important component of the safety net in Russia, and
while there is little accurate information on them, they appear to
continue to be so. Finally, the NGO sector is emerging as an
important complement to the overall safety net. Social insurance
and unemployment assistance are financed through extra-budgetary
funds (EBFs), supported by payroll taxes currently totaling 34.8w
of the wage bill. Child allowances are a universal benefit financed
from local revenues and supplemented with federal transfers. Such
transfers are in the form of unconditional block grants to oblasts
for a range of federal government obligations, of which child
allowances are a designated priority. Social assistance is funded
entirely from local resources.
The Country's Adjustment Program
4.      Since the elections in 1996, and especially since the
formation of the new government earlier this year, the Government
has become very concerned about social protection issues. This
reflects the high political and social costs of arrears in social
payments, especially pensions, brought on by fiscal pressures, as
well as a growing realization that existing income transfer
programs, even if fully funded, do not reach important vulnerable
groups. The Government's strategy is articulated in the Program of
Social Reforms 1996-2000, approved by the Government in February
1997, and in President Yeltsin's address to the Federal Assembly in
March 1997. At the same time, new appointments have been made at
high levels of the Government of individuals with credible track
records of social reform in the regions, a favorable popular image
and proven capacity to muster support for difficult decisions. In
addition, several other appointments have been made which greatly
strengthen the cadre of reformers working on social sector issues.
These changes have brought new momentum and energy to the reform
program in the social sectors.
5.      The Government's social protection strategy focuses on: (i)
creating an efficient pension system, in line with modern western
practice that would be financially viable and provide adequate
social protection to the poorest groups; (ii) providing
economically efficient employment opportunities, while improving
labor force productivity and labor market flexibility; (iii)
reallocating public (federal and sub-federal) financial resources
devoted to social protection so as to increasingly target income
- 2 -



support to needy households; and (iv) Clearly delineating of
responsibility for social issues at the federal, regional and local levels.
The Proposed Loan
6.      The SPAL would support the Government's Social Protection
Reform Program in order to gradually develop an effective system of
income support and poverty relief to meet the needs of a market
economy. It would also support efforts to reduce the adverse
effects of transition on the poor and vulnerable population groups.
The key areas covered by the SPAL are social insurance (including
pensions and short-term insurance for sickness and maternity),
unemployment assistance, social assistance and child allowances. It
will pursue poverty alleviation by raising and protecting minimum
benefits, and through better targeting. It will help establish a
viable social safety net by introducing structural reforms in
pensions and welfare programs. In order to help safeguard the
Government's macroeconomic stabilization targets, the SPAL will
emphasize efficiency improvements in the safety net programs and
the reallocation of resources within existing programs towards
needy groups, without increasing public expenditures, as severe
fiscal constraints prevent the Government from undertaking
reallocations from other sectors in the short term. The proposed
reforms will represent major changes in the system of social
protection and income transfers, and are expected to have a
significant impact on alleviating poverty and stabilizing incomes
among vulnerable groups, and prepare for more targeted safety net
interventions in the future.
7.      The proposed SPAL of US$800 million will be released in three
tranches, the first of US$300 million upon effectiveness (July
1997); the second of US$250 million on fulfillment of second
tranche conditions (expected December, 1997) and the third of
US$250 million on fulfillment of third tranche conditions (expected
June, 1998). Disbursements of the Loan will be subject to a
standard negative list of ineligible goods and countries of origin.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence,
there will be no procurement requirements.
8.      Monitoring of SPAL activities beyond supervising the
implementation of SPAL conditionalities principally refers to the
appropriate use of the federal transfers in the pilot schemes and
the payment of child allowances, as well as to poverty monitoring
and program participation, in connection with the social assistance
pilot programs, household surveys of income and program
participation. Progress on the SPAL tranche conditions will be
supported and maintained through technical assistance and studies
in the framework of the Portfolio Development Loan (PDL), the
Employment Services and Social Protection Loan (ESSP), and the
proposed Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL).
9.      The initiatives introduced under the proposed SPAL and
supported by it and by related technical assistance address the
inefficiencies of the previous system of social protection and are
expected to be determinant in reshaping them to meet the needs of a
-3 -



market economy and lay a solid foundation on which Russia can build
a pension and welfare system that corresponds to its needs. The
initiatives will achieve the following: (i) while the difficult
fiscal and financial situation precludes large increases in benefit
payments, higher pensions and regular pension payments will be
secured for some 4 million of the poorest pensioners, and minimum
unemployment benefits will be set at a level which will allow a
somewhat better standard of living for the unemployed; (ii) the
current US$27 billion/year (5.5w of GDP) pension system will be
stabilized: arrears will be drawn down and eliminated, the revenue
base of the PF strengthened, and the process towards better
financial management of the PF, which is a longer term process,
will have been set underway through better collection procedures
and through a gradual audit of the PF; (iii) systemic pension
reform will be well underway: voluntary pension legislation will
have been enacted, and the process of enacting legislation for
systemic reform will have reached the legislature; supported by a
strong public campaign to explain the tradeoffs; (iv) the
unemployment benefit system will have been restructured, making it
a targeted system providing benefits for all eligible laid-off
workers, and delivering active services in an appropriate labor
market context (i.e. where programs lead to jobs or job
opportunities); (v) the labor code will have been revised to
provide a market-oriented framework for employer-employee
relations; (vi) the US$2.8 billion/year (1- of GDP) child allowance
program will be undergoing complete restructuring towards an
affordable, poverty-targeted, means-tested program; (vii) the
US$3.5 billion (1.25t of GDP) program of social insurance short-
term benefits will have been restructured and reduced, focusing
exclusively on sickness and maternity benefits; and (viii)
streamlining of social assistance will be underway.
Contact Point:           Mr. Hjalte Sederlof, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2524
Fax No.: (202) 477-0711
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 3, 1997.
- 4 -



