Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4203 RU
Loan Agreement
(Social Protection Adjustment Loan)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 25, 1997  
LOAN NUMBER 4203 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 5, 1997 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s social protection system (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Pension Fund” means the Russian Federation Pension Fund, operating 
pursuant to Resolution No. 2122-1, dated December 12, 1991; Presidential Decree No. 
2288, dated December 24, 1993; and Federal Law No. 77-FZ, dated May 5, 1997. 
(c)  
“Employment Fund” means the Fund for Employment of the Population of the 
Russian Federation, operating pursuant to Government Resolution No. 5132-1, dated June 
8, 1993; and Law No. 36-FZ, dated April 20, 1996; 
(d)  “Social Insurance Fund” means the Social Insurance Fund of the Russian 
Federation, operating pursuant to Regulation No. 101, dated February 12, 1994, and 
amended by Regulation No. 101, dated December 23, 1996; 
(e)  “Duma” means the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian 
Federation; and 
(f)  “Subjects of the Federation” means constituent republics, oblasts, krais, 
autonomous okrugs, and cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg, having such status 
pursuant to the Constitution of the Russian Federation adopted December 1993. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eight 
hundred million Dollars ($800,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account:
(A) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $300,000,000, 
unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i)
that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with 
the Program as determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Bank; 
(ii)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section I of  Schedule 2 to 
this 
Agreement have been taken; and
(B)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $550,000,000, 
unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i)
that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with 
the Program as determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Bank; 
(ii)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 to 
this 
Agreement have been taken.
(e)
If, after any of the said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Page  4
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in single 
currency for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Page  5
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (c)
furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 
Finance responsible for international economic affairs is designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  6
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower. 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          -
Alcoholic beverages
121                          -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                          -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                          -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
  -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                        718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
Page  7
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43    
Tobacco processing machinery
897                         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                           -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt and fraudulent practices were engaged in by the representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (A) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence demonstrating that: (i) the 
proposed Pension Fund budget for 1998, as submitted to the Duma, includes adequate 
allocations to allow for payments to be made by the Pension Fund at the level 
corresponding to the estimated amounts due for statutory pension benefits for such 
year, determined in accordance with a pension floor and inflation-indexed adjustment 
mechanism, which shall have been established by the Borrower acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) the Law on the Federal Budget for 1998, as submitted to the Duma, includes 
allocations sufficient to cover all federal statutory obligations required to be made 
through the Pension Fund; and (iii) the payments to beneficiaries out of the Pension 
Fund during 1997 have been maintained within the current income of the Pension Fund 
from regular sources.
2.
The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Bank: (i) a report demonstrating 
satisfactory progress in the implementation of measures for improvement in collections 
of pension insurance contributions; (ii) results of a preliminary survey undertaken 
with a view to laying the foundation for a comprehensive audit of the 1996 Pension 
Fund accounts; (iii) a report demonstrating satisfactory progress in the 
implementation of measures to strengthen the income base of the Pension Fund, and 
including recommendations on any necessary corrective actions; and (iv) an independent 
report by consultants satisfactory to the Bank, containing an evaluation of the pilot 
program concerning the introduction of individual worker pension accounts.
3.
The Borrower has: (i) issued a Government decision, adopting a detailed concept 
for a systemic pension reform pursuant to the introduction of a three-tier pension 
system, having such scope and containing such specific components, as agreed between 
Page  8
the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) has prepared and furnished to the Bank a 
comprehensive strategy for a public information and education program on systemic 
pension reform.
4.
The Borrower has: (i) submitted satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the 
Employment Fund budget for 1997 has been adopted, providing for centralization of 
twenty percent (20%) of Employment Fund income; (ii) adopted a mandatory formula for 
the allocation to the subjects of the Federation of the centralized resources of the 
Employment Fund based on the identified need of such subjects of the Federation; and 
(iii) introduced draft legislation in the Duma providing for a revision in the 
Employment Fund benefits and eligibility categories, with the objective of improving 
the targeting and efficiency of the use of resources of the Employment Fund in respect 
of such categories, as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank; (iv) prepared and 
furnished to the Duma, the draft of a new Russian Federation Labor Code, or drafts of 
other laws proposed for replacing the existing Labor Code; and (v) prepared and 
furnished to the Bank the results of a preliminary survey undertaken with a view to 
laying the foundation for a comprehensive audit of the 1996 Employment Fund accounts.
5.
The Borrower has enacted legislation: (i)  providing for the introduction of 
eligibility criteria (targeting) for recipients of the monthly child allowances based 
on the material conditions of households (e.g. means testing); and (ii) providing for 
the maintenance of a guaranteed level of assistance, based on a targeted system of 
child allowances, covering at a minimum, children up to age 3.
6.
The Borrower has included in its proposed budget for 1998, as submitted to the 
Duma, adequate control mechanisms for ensuring the timely payment of the appropriate 
amounts due in respect of monthly child allowances, by the subjects of the Federation 
receiving federal budget transfers.
7.
The Borrower has introduced draft legislation in the Duma defining the 
obligations of the employer in respect of employees’ sick leave benefits.
8.
The Borrower has: (i) included in the proposed budget for 1998, as submitted to 
the Duma, an allocation for the social assistance pilot programs in three selected 
subjects of the Federation, each of which shall have agreed to make available its 
respective co-contributions towards the financing of such pilot programs; and (ii) 
completed and furnished to the Bank a review of legal privileges, grants and 
allowances relating to cash and in-kind benefits provided as social assistance at the 
regional level.
Section II.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (B) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence that: (i) all necessary measures 
were taken in respect of the adjustment of the actual pension floor in accordance with 
principles agreed by the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) the Budget Law of 1998, as 
enacted, provides for adequate allocations to cover all federal statutory obligations 
of the Pension Fund; and (iii) payments to beneficiaries out of the Pension Fund have 
been maintained within the current income of the Pension Fund from regular sources.
2.
The Borrower has: (i) prepared and furnished to the Bank a report demonstrating 
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the action plan for the improvement of 
the collections of contributions to the Pension Fund; and (ii) has furnished to the 
Bank the audit of the 1996 accounts of the Pension Fund, in which the recommendations 
of the preliminary survey, as referred to in sub-paragraph 2 (ii) of Section I of this 
Schedule, shall have been taken into consideration.
3.
Legislation has been adopted and entered into force providing for voluntary 
private pension schemes in accordance with principles set forth in the concept 
referred to in sub-paragraph 3 (i) of Section I of this Schedule.
4.
The Borrower has: (i) submitted to the Duma a draft law for systemic pension 
reform in accordance with the concept approved by the Government, as referred to in 
sub-paragraph 3 (i) of Section I of this Schedule; and (ii) provided satisfactory 
evidence that the comprehensive  public information and education program on systemic 
pension reform is under implementation in accordance with the strategy provided by the 
Borrower,  as referred to in sub-paragraph 3 (ii) of Section I of this Schedule.
5.
The Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Ministry 
Page  9
of Labor and Social Development is monitoring and evaluating the coverage and 
efficiency of all Employment Fund benefits.
6.
The Borrower has completed and furnished to the Bank the audit of the 1996 
accounts of the Employment Fund, and the Employment Fund has adopted a monitorable and 
time-bound action plan to implement the recommendations of such audit.
7.
The Borrower has prepared and provided to the Bank reports:  (i) on the status 
of the plan to transfer the responsibility for child allowance payments from 
enterprise-employers of the beneficiary households to the local social protection 
offices, and demonstrating progress in such transfer satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) on the timeliness of child allowance payments made through an appropriate 
mechanism acceptable to the Bank.
8.
The Borrower has completed and furnished to the Bank a review on the role of the 
Social Insurance Fund in benefit provision and maternity leave policy.
9.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence demonstrating satisfactory 
progress in the implementation of the social assistance pilot programs and 
improvements in the efficiency of use of social assistance payments made for the 
assistance of vulnerable groups.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
   Payment of Principal
          (Expressed in Date Payment Due
           U.S. Dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2003
through January 15, 2014
33,335,000
And on July 15, 2014
33,295,000
