                                                                                       33072

                             People's DemocraticRepublicofAlgeria
                    FinancialSystemInfrastructureModernizationProject
                                      ProposedRestructuring
                                       (Loan No. 7069 -AL)



Background

22475 -The
1.           above project was approved by the Executive Directors on June 26, 2001 (Report
         AL) and became effective on September 3, 2002. The project was designed to support
Algeria's efforts to put in place a more efficient enabling infrastructure for basic financial
services, primarily by modernizing the inter-bank payments systems for large-value transactions
and by developing norms and standards for future low value payments systems, including an
electronic clearing house. To further improve the enabling infrastructure, the project also aimed
at modernizing the information systems o f the Bank o f Algeria and at providing supporting
telecommunications infrastructure to serve both inter-bank and intra-bank payments systems and
networks.

2.     The project components were: (i) modernization o f the payments systems for the
                                              the
Bank o f Algeria; (ii) development o f Information Systems for the Bank o f Algeria; (iii)
                       the                                                                    the
set-up o f a supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure; and (iv) support to Project
Management.

3.     The original cost of theproject was estimated at US$18.20 million, to be financed by the
Government o f Algeria (US$1.70 million) and the Bank (US$16.50 million). The closing date o f
the loanwas June 30,2005.

       To date, project implementation is behind schedule for four mainreasons:

       Initial delays in loan signing and effectiveness. They mainly stemmed from the need to
       adapt the legal convention initially signed between the Bank o f Algeria and the Ministry
       o f Post and Telecommunications (which was then the telecom operator), to reflect
       reforms inthe Telecoms sector which led to the creation o f an autonomous entity, Alge'rie
       Te'le'com. In addition, the revised convention, now between the Bank o f Algeria and
       Alge'rie Te'le'com,had to reflect the technological improvements described below, calling
       for a new set o f services to be provided by the Telecom operator;
       Improvements in technology in the telecom sector took place during the time frame
       between loan approval and effectiveness. These improvements triggered a review o f the
       Telecoms technological options, eventually allowing for the adoption o f cheaper and
       significantly more efficient technology;
       Pioneering o f new World Bank procurement documentation for high technology systems
       (Real Time Gross Settlement System - RTGS). The complexity o f the bidding process
       combined with the introduction o f new World Bank procurement guidelines imposed a
       longer than expectedpreparation o f the biddingdocuments;
       Weaker than expected collaboration between the Banko f Algeria andAlge'rie Te'le'com.

                                                     2


 ImplementationProgress
 5.       Significant progress has been achieved over the last months, which should significantly
 improve the pace o fproject implementation.

     a) Component 1- Modernization o f the payments systems for the Bank o f Algeria. The
         RTGS contract has been signed and the implementation is proceeding swiftly.
     b) Component 2 - Information systems o f the Bank of Algeria. The Bank o f Algeria has
         decided to fund the Information Systems component from its own resources. The
          Strategic Plan prepared by the Bank o f Algeria confirms its commitment to achieve the
         objectives initially set inthe project. The Bank of Algeria intends to launch the first phase
         o f this project during the second half o f 2005. The implementation o f the RTGS and o f
         the Telecoms infrastructure would not be substantially affected if the roll-over by Bank
         o f Algeria o f its new Information systems were not to proceed as expected. In that
         respect, no risk o f a mismatch between the actual payments realized and the ability o f the
         Bank o f Algeria to track the associated information has been identified, as the existing
         information network in the Bank o f Algeria is sufficient to support the related flows o f
         information, at worse with some delays.
     c) Component3 - Setting-up o f a supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure. The Bank
         o f Algeria has contracted with Swift to ensure that the Telecoms requirements are met
         and that linkages with the banking sector are set up to ensure fbll-functioning when the
         RTGS becomes operational in October 2005. The Bank o f Algeria has also selected the
         provider for the Telecoms component and the operational phase i s expected to begin
         shortly. A long-delayed Convention between Alge'rie Te'le'com and the Bank o f Algeria
         was signedon M a y 4, 2005, laying out Alge'rie Te'le'com's contractual commitments inthe
         implementation o f this commitment.

ProposedRestructuring

6.       The objective o f this restructuring is to refocus the scope o f the project given the decision
o f Bank o f Algeria to fund the information systems component with its own resources. This
refocus is linked to a reduction o f the loan amount to reflect this change and cost savings that
occurred due to technological improvements under the other components (the RTGS and the
telecommunications components).

7.       Given the progress achieved to date, although the major components are still in their
implementation phase and not yet operational, the likelihood o f achieving the project's
development objectives under the payments systems and telecommunications components i s very
high.The implementation o fthis project is now expectedto be completed by June 30,2006, and
the recent steps taken provide now for a satisfactory rating o f implementation progress. Further,
these objectives will be achieved at a lower cost than estimated at appraisal, without reducing the
initial ambition o f the project.

8.      The Algerian authorities have also requested an extension o f the project closing date to
allow them to fulfill the project's development objectives. Moreover, the statements and policies
o f the Government and Bank o f Algeria in support o f global payments systems reform (a

                                                   3


 separate technical assistance activity) provide comfort of their commitment to see the project
objectives achieved, but also to engage inadditional payments systems reform which would help
 strengthen the financial infrastructure and would support the sector's role in economic and
private sector growth.

9.      The proposed restructuring therefore aims at reflecting those changes in the project
development objectives and inthe loan amount. It will entail:

        Dropping the information systems component o f the project. Inthe Loan Agreement, the
        project development objective i s described as "to assist the Borrower in putting inplace
        an efficient infrastructure for basic financial services". As set out in Schedule 2 o f the
        Loan Agreement, the project consists o f four parts (Modernization and Development o f
        Payments Systems, Development o f the Information Systems, Telecommunications
        Infrastructure, ProjectManagement Support) to achieve this objective.
        The proposed restructuring would not affect the project development objective as set out
        inthe LoanAgreement. The informationsystems component would bedropped to reflect
        the decision o f the Bank o f Algeria to finance it out o f its own funds. This change would
        not affect the achievement o f the project development objectives (see 5.b o f this
        Memorandum), but would allow the authorities to meet them within a simplifiedstructure
        andat alower cost (see below).
        A cancellation of US$11.3 million of the loan. This amount represents the cost o f the
        information systems component and cost savings derived from improvements in
        technology and other factors. This partial cancellation took place on June 16`h, 2005
        following the authorities' request. The revisedloan amount i s therefore US$5.2 million.


                      Category         IAmount allocated  I Amount    cancelledI Newallocation 1




       A modification of the project intermediate performance indicators for project outputs, to
       better reflect the actual progress in project implementation as well as the improvements
       in technology. The Bank of Algeria has agreed to maintain intermediate performance
       indicators (reflected inthe attached table) for its Information Systems, reflecting both its
       commitment to achieve this project's development objectives and its willingness to
       maintain close dialogue with the World Bank during its implementation.

       The up-dating o f the risk assessment undertaken during project preparation confirms that
the main risks then identified and the related risk-ratings remain accurate, and that the risk
mitigationmeasures are still relevant (and implementedwhere warranted).

                                                4


11.   The proposed restructuring also required the extension o f the closing date from June 30,
2005 to June 30, 2006 and would require amending the LoanAgreement as follows:

   a) Modify Article 2 o f the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduction o f the loan amount;
   b) Modify Schedule 4 o f the Loan Agreement to reflect the creation o fAlgkrie Te'le'com(in
      place o f the MinistBre des Postes et Te'le'communications);
   c) Modify Schedule 1 o f the Loan Agreement to reflect the changes in the allocation o f the
      loan amount by categories o f expenditures; and
   d) Modify Schedule 2 o f the Loan Agreement to reflect the suppression o f the Information
      systems component.

                                                                     5



   Annex I Project Design Summary Revised Intermediary Performance
                 -                                                   -
                                                          Indicators

 Hierarchy of Objectives                    Key Performance                     Key Performance
                                           Indicators (initial)                 Indicators (revised)
 Project DevelopmentObjective:             Outcome I Impact Indicators:
More efficient enablinginfrastructure      Growthinthe utilizationo fthe        Unchanged
for basic financialservices                RTGSsystemand inthe amount of
                                           large-valuepayments processedby
                                           system. The largevaluepayments
                                          processedby the RTGSsystemon a
                                          daily basis
                                           shouldrise to 70 % ofthe
                                          total value ofall transactions
                                          within the bankingsystem
                                          within 6 months of system
                                          cut-over, andto 80 % within
                                          one year after systemcut-over

                                         Demonstrablereductioninthe use of
                                          large-valuechecks following system
                                         cut-over

                                         Improvedquality of BA'spolicy
                                         analyses, knowledgemanagement,
                                         services to the financial sector, and
                                         monetary
                                         policy

                                         ~~~      ~    ~~~    ~~    ~

Hierarchy of Objectives                  Key Performance                       Intermediary Performance
                                         Indicators (initial)                  Indicators (revised)
Output from each                      Output Indicators:
Component:
I,Payments SystemModernization-           1. a) Large-valuetransactionsare          RTGS systeminstalledand
A well-functioningRTGS system,        settledinrealtime with intra-day              tested on Zirout site
includingassociatedregulatory         finality                                      Regulatory framework
systems, and the adoptionofnorms,                                                   defined(includingregulations
standards and regulationsfor future      1. b) Incidenceo f large-value             and account conventions)
low value payments systems            settlement delays exceeding one day           Customizedsoftwareinstalled
                                      are virtually eliminatedwithin one            Completionof trainingon the
                                         year ofsystemcut-over                      RTGS systemfor Bank of
                                                                                    Algeriastaff
                                         1 c) RTGS systemavailabilityo f at
                                            I
                                      least 90% within one year of system
                                      :ut-over, and98% within two years             Definitionand publicationof
                                      3 f    system cut-over                        norms and standards for
                                                                                    small-paymentssystems (in
                                      1. d) Norms and standards for low-            particularfor credit cards)
                                         value payments systems are
                                      Zompleted andpublishedby
                                      December2002

                                                       6



Hierarchy of Objectives              Key Performance                       Key Performance
                                     Indicators (initial)                  Indicators (revised)

2. Information Systems               2. Improved quality and timeliness of Component removedbecauseno
Modernizationfor the Bank of         the central bank's financial and      longer financed by project.
Algeria -Improved information        economic statistics and publications  However, the Bank and the
systems are operational                                                    authorities agreed to maintain a
                                                                           monitoringof itsimplementation
                                                                           usingthe followingindicators

                                                                           P Agreement reachedwith Swift
                                                                           9 Contractwith the providerfor
                                                                           >   the BA networksigned
                                                                               Up-datedconventionbetween
                                                                               Bankof Algeria andAlgbie
                                                                               TLltkom signed
3. Supporting Telecommunications     3. The telecommunications
Infrastructure - Well-functioning    infrastructure enables the
telecommunications links serving the achievement o f the performance
payments systems, BA information     indicators given above for the
systems and other communications     payment systems and BA information
among financial sector participants  systems

4. Project Management Support - A    4. Project implementationproceeds
well-functioning P M Uwith adequate  smoothly and in accordance with the
capacity to implement the project    Project ImplementationPlan

                                                       7




wb71739
P:MLGERIA\IF\54217\boardFSIMP-MOP-restructuring-July14.doc
19/07/2005 12:16:00

