Report No. PID7446
Project Name                     Algeria-Financial System Infrastructure...
Development Loan
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       DZPA54217
Borrower                         Algeria
Implementing Agency              Bank of Algeria (Central Bank)
Contact: Mr. Omar Bougara
Director of Multilateral Relations
Ministry of Finance
Tel : (213) 2 73 54 74
Fax : (213) 2 73 21 43
Project Appraisal Date           March 15, 1999
Project Board Date               June 24, 1999
Background and Recent Developments
1.      The banking system of Algeria is oligopolistic and nearly entirely state-
owned. It mainly consists of five public sector banks which, for decades after
Algeria's independence, acted as passive distributors of administered credits
to state enterprises in a centrally managed economy. In addition to state-
owned commercial banks, there is a large state-owned housing savings
institution, which collects most of the household deposits, one small private
Islamic commercial bank and one small private merchant bank. Recently two
foreign banks have been licensed by the Central Bank of Algeria and ten
foreign banks have established representative offices in Algiers.
2.      In spite of a substantial government buyback of non-performing loans to
state enterprises initiated in 1993 and a subsequent recapitalization of the
public sector banks, which was supported by a World Bank Sectoral Adjustment
Loan in 1996, the financial condition of state-owned banks remains weak, and
bank financial intermediation has not yet expanded in terms of bank credit and
savings mobilization relative to the size of the Algerian economy. In
addition, the operational performance of the banking system as the core
provider of payment services requires substantial strengthening since it
currently represents a major impediment to savings mobilization and the
efficient settlement of basic business transactions. Mainly because the bank
payments system's performance has not improved much over the last ten years,
currency remains the most highly used payment instrument and still accounts
for more then 50 per cent of the money supply.
3.      The potential for a significant upturn in the financial performance of
the state-owned banks continues to be closely linked to the structural
transformation of the real economy. The recent government privatization effort
has concentrated on local public enterprises, while the core of the industrial
sector - consisting of large national state-owned companies - remains largely
intact and still represents the largest proportion of total bank credit.
4.      As stated in the government program approved by the National Assembly in
August 1997, the government acknowledged the limited progress achieved in the



reform of the financial sector. The government's new strategy to improve the
financial sector's performance is :
(i) to seek private participation in the banking sector through the
introduction of new private banks and private minority participation in the
capital of existing state-owned banks,
(ii) to adopt a liberal and pragmatic policy on foreign entry in all segments
of the financial sector,
(iii) to promote the development of the securities market and other non-bank
financial instruments; and
(iv) finally to pursue the organizational restructuring of the state-owned
banks.
5.      In the implementation of this strategy, the government also recognizes
the urgent need for a significant increase in the supply of qualified and well
trained bank managers to facilitate the emergence of new private or foreign
financial institutions, to support the institutional restructuring of the
state-owned institutions, and to increase the overall efficiency of the
financial system.
6.      In line with the government policy, bilateral financial and technical
assistance as well as PHRD funds have been building the foundation of the
securities market, namely the institutional development of the Securities
Commission, the establishment of the basic elements of a securities market
regulatory framework, the introduction of a secondary market for government
securities, and the initial development phases of the stock exchange. The
introduction of a central depository system is planned for the coming year.
[Note: Summarize assessments of key policy, institutional and other issues,
and the Government's strategy to address them, referencing the economic and
sector work of the Bank and other development agencies.]
Project Objectives
7.      The project objective is to improve the banking    system's infrastructure
by:
(i)     upgrading the performance of the bank payments and fund transfer system;
(ii) increasing the central bank's institutional capacity;
(iii) supporting the development of qualified and trained professionals
in the financial sector.
Project Description
8.      The proposed project has three main components. The first component
consists of developing electronic data transmission and computer networks for
the benefit of the central bank, which will also provide the technological
backbone for the two other components of the project, the modernization of the
bank payments system and the development of a professional bank training and
knowledge management program supported by distance learning technology.
9.      The proposed dedicated digital fiber optic telecom network will connect
the five locations of the central bank's headquarter in Algiers, the central
bank's newly acquired bank training center in Bouzareah, the main central bank
regional agencies, and the headquarters of commercial banks in Algiers. The
computer networks (a Wide Area Network and Local Area Networks) will support
- 2-



the key functions of the central bank. Namely, it will support the central
bank's research division, provides the basic computing capacity for the
operations of the interbank payments system and improves off-site bank
supervision through an on-line bank reporting system.
10.     The second component concerns the modernization of the interbank payments
system. The specific objectives of this component are to: (i) improve the
quality of payment services to further reduce float, speed up circulation of
funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission, while providing
convenience and service to users; ii) provide appropriate tools to both Bank
of Algeria and the participating commercial banks to facilitate enhanced cash
management and avoid credit and liquidity risk; and iii) improve the
attractiveness of the Algerian financial system to potential investors and
foreign banks by providing appropriate payments services in a manner that
demonstrably balances efficiency, cost and risk. This component should be
viewed as a major component of the national strategy and consists of three
computer based application systems, some additional computer and
telecommunications equipment not covered in the first component above, and the
essential project management and technical support necessary for successful
implementation. The inter-bank payment system will be able to handle the
clearing of all domestic electronic inter-bank credit and debit payments.
11.     The third component includes the development of a professional bank
training and knowledge management program. The proposed program has three main
modules; an executive graduate program on the management of financial
institutions supported by a consortium of international learning institutions
for the benefit of experienced managers - the program will be offered for an
expected minimum period of five years and train some 200 candidates; (ii) a
short-term professional seminars program covering a wide range of issues and
topics on financial management and the provision of financial services; and
(iii) a comprehensive documentation and reference package in the area of
banking, finance, and economics accessible to financial institutions and
program participants. The central bank's banking school will in parallel
become an internet service provider to the financial industry. The proposed
training program is designed to fully recover its development and equipment
cost which includes an amount of US$2 million of telecom and distance learning
equipment.
Project Cost and Financing
12.     The overall cost of the project is estimated at US$27.5 million. The
proposed loan of US$25 million will fund close to US$20 million of equipment
and installation costs and about US$5 million of technical assistance, project
management support, and training of local telecom and computer technicians.
Project Implementation
13.     The borrower would be the Government of Algeria. Bank of Algeria is the
implementing agency. It has created two committees on the payments system: a
National Payment Council responsible for the strategic and business management
of the new payments system, and a Technical Payments System Development
Committee responsible for coordinating the implementation of payments system
development initiatives, including the development of the related computer and
telecom fiber optic networks. The system contract suppliers for the computer
and telecom networks and the interbank payments system will be initially
-3 -



responsible for system operation for a period of up to one year after their
installation.
14.     A new division of the central bank has been created for the management of
the bank training center in Bouzareah. This training and knowledge management
division will be responsible for coordinating the development and delivery of
the proposed training activities and managing the computer networks and video
conference facilities planned under this project. The operational management
of the technical facilities will be contracted out to a local private firm to
be selected from a small group of qualified firms identified during project
preparation. Operational support to the two main BA entities involved in the
project will be provided by a Project Management Unit. The project management
unit (PMU) at the central bank will be responsible for: (i) coordinating
project implementation; (ii) administrating the IBRD credit; (iii) maintain
separate project accounts for the three project components.
Program Objectives Category
15.     The program objective category is financial sector development.
Project Benefits
16.     The proposed telecom and interbank payments system infrastructure will
significantly improve the operational environment of financial institutions.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the payments system modernization are the actual
and prospective users of bank services including households who currently
account for a small percentage of total deposits in commercial banks. The
project will also benefit the actual and future personnel of financial
institutions through the development of a high level professional training
program which includes access to comprehensive data banks and professional
reference material. At the end of 1997, the banking sector's major
institutions had about 25,500 employees. Finally, the project supports the
institutional and organizational development of the central bank and will
enhance its capacity on bank supervision and the conduct of monetary policy.
The central bank has a network of 51 agencies and about 2,700 employees of
which 1,500 work at the bank's headquarter in Algiers.
Project Risks
17.     The overall risk rating attributed to the project is substantial. The
large need for external inputs and technical assistance and the necessary and
particular logistical support for on-site project implementation contribute
significantly to the overall project risk rating. The security situation has
improved during the project preparation and has allowed the participation of
qualified international consultants. Moreover, the project would not have
negative social implications.
18.     Other important risks identified relate to the adequacy of project
management skills, and proper understanding of payments system requirements.
Measures to mitigate these risks are the recruitment of an experienced project
manager to supplement existing skills at Bank of Algeria and acquisition
strategy requiring the successful vendor to support the new systems and
adequately transfer know-how to local personnel. Also, timely collaboration of
the Telecommunication Ministry in the project development is essential. The
telecom Ministry has been involved since the early stages of the project
- 4 -



preparation and has participated actively in the project design and
development plan.
Poverty Category
19.     Not applicable
Environmental Aspects
20.     The loan has been classified in environmental category      C £ (no
significant environmental impact)
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Denis Chaput
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W. Washington D.C. 20043
Telephone No. : (202) 473-2017
Facsimile No. : (202) 522-2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 19, 1999.
- 5-



