Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22475-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 25, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
DZD I = US$0.0133
US$1 = DZD 75.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BA            Bank of Algeria
BIS           Bank of International Settlements
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCP           Centrale des Cheques Postaux
CPSS          Committee for Payment and Settlement Systems
CQ            Consultants Qualifications
DPS           Direct Participants System
EIU           Economic Intelligence Unit
EU            European Union
FARAH         Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FMPM          Financial Management Procedures Manual
GoA           Govemment of Algeria
GPN           General Procurement Notice
HVSS          High Value Sub-System
IBPS          Interbank Payments System
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IS            International Shopping
LAN           Local Area Network
LVSS          Low Value Sub-System
MPT           Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NS            National Shopping
PCA           Project Capacity Assessment
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PFS           Project Financial Statement
PMR           Project Management Report
PMU           Project Management Unit
RTGS          Real Time Gross Setttlements System
SAPS          Settlement Account Processing System
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SRFP          Standard Request for Proposals
SWIFT         Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
WAN           Wide Area Network
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Deane Jordan



ALGERIA
FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENT'S
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   I 1
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        I I
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           I 1
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Environmental                                                                      13
6. Social                                                                             14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                     15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           17
2. Other                                                                              17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          18
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary (Not applicable)                                 28
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           46
MAP(S)
IBRD 29992



ALGERIA
FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Date: June 25, 2001                               Team Leader: Deane N. Jordan
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie       Sectlor Manager/Director: Emmnanuel Forestier
Project ID: P054217                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [1 Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 16.5
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 4                          Years to maturity: 12.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% per annum/0.75% per annum   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.70           0.00          1.70
IBRD                                                           0.30           16.20         16.50
Total:                                                         2.00           16.20         18.20
Borrower: PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: BANK OF ALGERIA
Address: Banque d'Algerie
Contact Person: Mr. Mikail Tiar, Project Director, Project Management Unit (Comite Technique), 38 Avenue Franklin
Roosevelt, Algiers, Algeria
Tel: (213-21) 21 23 03 44         Fax: (213-21) 21 23 95 81           Email: mtiar(bank-of-algeria.dz
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    2.00        4.00       6.00       4.50
Cumulative    2.00        6.00      12.00      16.50
Project implementation period: 2002 to 2005 (3.5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 11/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
ADS FAD PCm,l F~ kn, Za



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to put in place a more efficient enabling infrastructure for basic
financial services, primarily by modernizing the interbank payments system for large-value transactions -
the cornerstone of payments system development - and by developing nonrs and standards for future
low-value payments systems, including an electronic clearing house. To further improve the enabling
infrastructure, the Project will modernize the information and knowledge management systems of the Bank
of Algeria (viz., the central bank of Algeria). As a necessary complement and support to the payments and
infonnation systems, the Project will also provide supporting telecommunications infrastructure to improve
the communications links between and among the offices of the Bank of Algeria and the headquarters of
key financial institutions and banks. The telecommunications network will help to facilitate efficient
interconnections and end-to-end processing for both interbank and intrabank payment systems and
networks.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicator for the achievement of the project development objective with be growth in
utilization of the Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) and in the amount of large-value payments
processed by the system. As evidence of strong performance, the large-value payments processed by the
RTGS system, on a daily basis, should rise within 6 months of system cut-over to 70% of the total value of
all transactions within the banking system, and, within one year after system cut-over, to 80%. A second
indicator will be a demonstrable reduction in the use of large-value checks following system cut-over.
Other important qualitative indicators expected to be achieved by the modernization of BA's information
and knowledge management systems, are: a) improved quality of the central bank's policy analyses and of
its services to the financial sector and the banking system; b) improved efficiency in the conduct of
monetary policy; and c) the promotion and dissemination of knowledge on payments system activity.
The main indicators for the achievement of the project deliverables and outputs are as follows:
(i) Modernization of the Payments System: a) Large-value transactions are settled in real time with
intra-day finality (e.g., when funds are available, 95% of transactions are settled in less than 15 seconds
and 100% in less than one minute; and, less than 5% of transactions need to be queued for settlement at any
time); b) The incidence of settlement delays exceeding one day are virtually eliminated within one year of
system cut-over; c) RTGS system availability is at least 90% within one year of system cut-over, and 98%
within two years of system cut-over; and d) Norms and standards for low-value payment systems are
completed and published by BA by December 31, 2002.
(ii) Development of Bank of Algeria's Infornation Systems: Improved quality and timeliness of the central
bank's financial and economic statistics and publications.
(iii) Supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure: Well-functioning telecommunications links serving the
large-value RTGS payment system, BA information systems and other communications among financial
sector participants, which will enable the achievement of the performance indicators given above for the
payment systems and BA information systems.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R96-15 [Rev.]            Date of latest CAS discussion: February 27, 1996
The current CAS is more than five years old. Pending progress on the programmatic dialogue, an interim
CAS will be prepared in the second half of FY02. However, the objectives of the current CAS remain
valid, particularly with respect to the priorities given to accelerating sustainable economic growth through
the pursuit of financial sector reforms, including the strengthening of the operational environment of the
financial sector and the efficiency of basic bank services, and also through the pursuit of private sector
development, including privatization. In this regard, the Project is consistent with the Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy, and is part of the low case lending scenario for Algeria. The Project will support CAS
objectives by improving the financial system infrastructure that is critically important for a
well-functioning financial system within a private sector-led economy. The Project is also an integral part
of the strategy and plan of the Government and the Bank of Algeria to help further integrate Algeria into
the global financial architecture.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The financial sector is heavily burdened by the legacy of administrative economic management that was
geared towards the needs of the public enterprise sector. Consistent with this early approach, the financial
system remains broadly underdeveloped, despite some progress in opening up the sector to foreign banks,
initiated over the last three years. The banking system is still oligopolistic and nearly entirely state-owned.
It mainly consists of six public sector banks which, for decades after Algeria's independence, acted as
passive distributors of administered credits to state enterprises in a centrally managed economy. In addition
to state-owned commercial banks, there are nine small, private foreign and domestic merchant banks. The
postal system is the largest provider of basic retail bank services, with a network about equal in size to that
of the commercial banks' entire national network. The performance of bank payments services requires
substantial improvement in order to strengthen the attractiveness of bank deposits and bank financial
intermediation.
As measured by total assets, the size of the banking system relative to the level of economic activity has
declined since 1993. By the end of 1997 it had fallen from 76% to 64%. Cash remains the predominant
payment instrument and still accounts for about half of the money supply (Ml). There has been no
significant improvement since 1993 in the rate of deepening of the financial market or in increasing savings
mobilization as a percentage of the total economy. This can be attributed, to a large extent, to the
inefficiency of banking institutions.
In spite of a substantial government buyback of non-performing loans to state enterprises since 1993 and a
subsequent recapitalization of the public sector banks mainly since 1996, which was partly supported by a
World Bank adjustment operation, the financial condition of state-owned banks still requires strengthening.
Overall, the state banks are undercapitalized, and, according to government estimates, non-performing
loans reach DZD 200 billion, or 6% of GDP.
In recent years, however, the financial sector has been undergoing a gradual transformation. A defining
event was the passage of the Law on Money and Credit in 1990, which granted central bank autonomy,
introduced transparent rules in treasury and central bank relations, and stipulated non-discriminatory
- 3 -



commercial bank financing of public and private enterprises. In 1991-92, BA ceased to impose credit
ceilings on commercial bank lending and started to introduce indirect instments for refinancing the
economy. Financial sector reform gained further momentum in 1994 in the context of an IMF-supported
reform program.
In the development program approved by the National Assembly in August 1997, the Government
acknowledged the limited progress achieved in the reform of the fnancial sector and adopted a new strategy
and program to:
(i) promote increased private participation in the banking sector through the introduction of new private
banks and private minority participation in the capital of existing state-owned banks;
(ii) pursue a more liberal and pragmatic policy on foreign entry in all segments of the financial sector;
(iii) promote the development of the securities market and other non-bank financial instruments; and
(iv) pursue the organizational restructuring of the state-owned banks.
In line with government policy, bilateral financial and technical assistance as well as Japanese PHRD funds
have been helping to strengthen the foundation of the securities market, namely the institutional
development of the Securities Commission, the basic elements of a securities market regulatory
framework, the introduction of a secondary market for govemrnment securities, and the initial development
phases of the stock exchange.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A major constraint to the efficiency of banking operations in Algeria is the outdated financial sector
technical infrastructure, which, for example, causes considerable delays in the clearing of checks. In turn,
the weak operational performance of the banking system as the core provider of payment services
represents a major impediment to savings mobilization and the efficient settlement of basic business
transactions. A modernization of the interbank payments system as well as the intrabank clearing and
settlement system, based on modem information systems and reliable telecommunications facilities, is an
essential complement to policy reforms in the financial sector.
The current status of Algeria's payments system is described in a stock-taking study carried out during
project preparation and is included in the project files (viz., The System of Payments in Algeria, first issued
in August 1998 and updated in November 2000). The current payments system is structured around three
main networks:
(i) the banking system, within which the volume of intrabank payments is estimated to be about four times
that of interbank payments, and in which checks are the dominant means of payment;
(ii) the public treasury, in which transfers are the main means of payment. Checks on banks received in
payment of obligations such as taxes and customs duties are processed by the Bank of Algeria; and
(iii) the postal system's Centrale des Cheques Postaux (CCP), which is a major provider of payments
services given its national network of about 1,000 branches, which is about the same size as the combined
national branch network of commercial banks. The value of CCP accounts represents slightly more than
20% of total sight and checking deposits in the financial system. In contrast to commercial banks, CCP's
clearing systems are centralized in Algiers and therefore allow CCP fund transfers to be settled more
efficiently than bank payment instruments.
Currency is the most highly used payment instrument and still accounts for more than 50% of the money
-4 -



supply (Ml). The use of checks as a means of payment is severely limited, as delays for clearing bank
checks range from several days in Algiers to more than four weeks for non-local checks presented at
commercial bank branches located in other cities. The total value of all payments in Algeria is estimated at
less than eight times GDP, which reflects weak bank intermediation and inefficient payment mechanisms.
Estimates for G7 countries range from 40 to 70 times GDP. Less than 10% of checks in the banking
system are exchanged among banks, because most checks are used by bank customers within their own
banks. Retail electronic payment services are still in their infancy; there are less than one hundred
automatic teller machines (ATM) operating in Algeria, and fewer than 3,000 credit card holders. The use
of electronic transfers is largely limited to salary payments and deductions. Their use in trade and
commerce is still marginal.
The proposed Project will help to develop a modernized interbank payments system that will allow
processing of check and electronic fund transfers through efficient and reliable electronic data transmission
and computer networks. It will introduce a modem RTGS system and associated telecommunications
facilities. The modernized payment systems will facilitate the secure, rapid and certain transfer of funds
domestically and internationally, as advocated by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems
(CPSS) of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). Separately from the proposed Project, the
Government also plans to implement new systems to modernize the payments system for low-value
transactions, for which the proposed Project will develop norms, standards and regulations. The
Government plans to develop the low-value payments system in partnership with Algerian commercial
banks and banking institutions. Together, the modernized large-value and low-value payment systems are
expected to facilitate an expansion of bank financial intermediation, the emergence of new retail banking
services such as credit cards, stronger institutional and financial linkages with global markets, and a better
enabling environment for attracting the participation of foreign banks.
To complement the Project's support for payments system development, the Project will include support for
modernizing BA's information systems and computer networks, both to provide the infrastructure necessary
for the functioning of the RTGS, including its interfaces with BA's accounting systems, and to strengthen
BA's capacity to carry out high quality policy analyses for the effective conduct of monetary policy and the
provision of improved information and knowledge management services to financial sector institutions.
The current information systems of the Bank of Algeria are fragmented across the bank's various divisions,
and operate through separate small local area networks located in several different buildings.
The Project will not address the critical need to raise the public sector banks' financial performance.
- 5 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
IndicatiVe             Bk-        % Of
Composent                   Sector        cost %f of   finnocing    Banck-
__________________ *i_______   _____________    (US$ M)    Total     (usim )   f n ncing
1. Payments System Modernization   Financial Sector     4.80       26.4      4.20       25.5
for the Bank of Algeria             Development
2. Information Systems Development   Telecommunicati    4.50       24.7       4.30      26.1
for the Bank of Algeria             ons &
Informatics
3. Supporting Telecommunications   Telecommunicati      8.10       44.5       7.50      45.5
Infrastructure                      ons &
Informatics
4. Project Management Support      Institutional        0.60        3.3       0.30       1.8
Development
Total Project Costs                   18.00      98.9      16.30       98.8
Front-end fee                     0.20       1.1       0.20        1.2
Total Financing Required                     18.20     100.0      16.50     100.0
Note: The indicative cost estimates include contingencies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The development of the Algerian economy requires the support of a robust and efficient financial system
which in turn depends on the presence of modem banking system infrastructure. In a country where check
clearing and settlement often takes several weeks, the reform of the banking system necessarily involves
raising the banks' ability to provide basic bank payrnents services for economic transactions. An efficient
payments, clearing and settlement system is a core component of modem banking system infrastructure and
is essential for improving the enabling environment for basic financial services, since efficient provision
and expansion of financial services requires substantial information processing and data transmission. An
efficient payments system is also essential for attracting new private and foreign banks to Algeria, of which
about nine now have representative offices in Algiers.
-6 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The modernized interbank payments system infrastructure will significantly improve the operational
environment of financial institutions, although the exact benefits are difficult to quantify. The irnproved
payments systems, both large-value and low-value, will improve the quality of payment services to further
reduce float, speed up the circulation of funds, and increase efficiency of funds transmission, while
providing convenience and service to users. They will also provide appropriate tools to both the central
bank and participating commercial banks to facilitate enhanced cash management and avoid credit and
liquidity risk. Overall, by reducing payment delays and credit risks, efficient payments systems reduce
transactions costs for both the private and financial sectors. They also facilitate the complementary
development of new and more efficient financial sector products and markets. In addition, they will
strengthen the attractiveness of the Algerian financial system to potential investors and foreign banks by
enabling payments services in a manner that demonstrably balances efficiency, cost and risk.
The modernized payments system is also expected to promote increased private sector development and
trade, by enabling the development of efficient, reliable, secure means of payments for goods and services.
The proposed Project will therefore help to satisfy the needs of the different market sectors - consumer and
retail sectors, industrial and commercial sectors, financial markets sector, government sector and the
foreign trade sector - for secure, reliable, convenient, cost effective and easy-to-use bank payment services.
The ultimate beneficiaries of payments system modernization, however, will be the actual and prospective
users of bank services, including households, with the benefit also of increasing the level of deposits and
financial resources available to the commercial banks.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements. The Project and the Bank loan will be managed by the Bank of Algeria, which
will have ultimate executive responsibility for the project. B3A will establish and maintain an
implementation and management structure satisfactory to the Bank. A Steering Committee (Comite de
Pilotage) will be responsible for overseeing the Project, addressing key implementation issues, and
recommending appropriate solutions and courses of action to the Governor of BA. The Steering
Committee will be chaired by a Vice Governor of BA, and include senior officials of BA and several
Chairmen of commercial banks. It will convene at least once every quarter. A Project Management Unit
(PMU) (Comite Technique) will report to the Steering Committee, and be headed by a Project Director
who has been appointed. The formal establishment of the PMU will be completed by July 31, 2001. The
PMU will be maintained with appropriate staffing in adequate number, whose experience and terms of
reference shall be acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will include specialists responsible for: (i) the
telecommunications network; (ii) the legal, regulatory and standards framework for both the large-value
payments system (RTGS) and small-value payments systems; (iii) the security of the payments systems;
(iv) information systems of BA; and (v) accounting and financial management and procurement. Most of
the PMU specialists, except for the procurement specialist, have been appointed.
The PMU will manage and coordinate the implementation of Project activities, including financial
management and procurement and disbursement processes. It will also make recommendations to the
Steering Committee in respect of any issues related to project implementation or payments system
development. In particular, it will monitor and evaluate project performance and implementation progress
in accordance with the performance indicators for the achievement of the project development objective and
the project outputs. It will also monitor compliance with Bank Group procurement guidelines, loan
covenants, budgets and expected costs at completion, and project accounts (including commitments and
disbursements), and participate in Bank supervision missions. In addition, the PMU will ensure close
- 7 -



coordination with the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) in regard to the implementation of
the telecommunications network, and with commercial banks and other institutions, existing or future,
which may be concemed with or involved in activities related to the overall payments system.
A Consultative Committee (Conseil Consultatifdes Correspondants), comprising senior managers of BA
and of commercial banks, will advise the PMU on payments system activities and issues. It will be chaired
by the Project Director and will convene at least once a month.
For the implementation of the telecommunications network, BA and MPT will conclude, prior to
effectiveness of the Bank loan, a Protocol ("Convention") acceptable to the Bank, that defines the
responsibilities and obligations of each party in relation to implementation of the supporting
telecommunications infrastructure component of the Project, and sets out the conditions under which MPT
will operate the telecommunications network to be established under the Project.
The system contract suppliers for the computer and telecommunications networks and the interbank
payments system will be initially responsible for system operation for a period of up to one year after their
installation. The system suppliers will report to the PMU.
Project Financial Management. The Bank of Algeria will be responsible for overall project financial
management. It will maintain records of accounts, prepare and disseminate annual Project Financial
Statements (PFS) and quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) acceptable to the Bank, and ensure
the timely audit of the PFS. During project preparation, an assessment of BA's financial management
capacity was carried out by a Financial Management Specialist in order to assess BA's ability to fulfill
Bank requirements. The assessment concluded that BA's current financial management system does not
present accountability issues and could be used by the PMU for the issuing of PFSs and PMRs specific to
the Project. In this regard, the current chart of accounts will be extended to include the project activities
and customized as may be necessary for the issuance of the PFSs and PMRs. The Project Director will
also establish, by August 2001, procedures for accounts and financial reporting as well as intemal control
mechanisms specific to the Project which will be reflected in a Financial Management Procedures Manual
(FMPM).
Audit. BA will appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry out an annual audit under specific terms
of reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing, as
issued by the Intemational Federation of Accountants, and with Bank guidelines (e.g. Financial,
accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH"). The auditor will express a professional opinion
on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report as soon as
possible and by no later than six months after the end of each government fiscal year.
Project Implementation and Monitoring. The Project will be implemented over a three and one half year
period from July 2001 to December 2004. The expected Closing Date is June 30, 2005. BA will carry out
the Project in accordance with a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) that includes target dates of
actions to be taken and monitorable performance indicators. Following a review of the draft PIP at Loan
negotiations, some revisions are required. Therefore, the submission of a PIP, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been made a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan. BA will also furnish the Bank with
detailed quarterly reports summarizing progress in implementation and procurement and in the achievement
of the monitorable performance indicators that have been described in a Supplemental Letter. The Bank
will carry out at least seven supervision missions during project implementation. In addition, a Mid-Term
Review will be carried out by December 31, 2003, for which BA will prepare a detailed mid-term report by
June 30, 2003. The Review will assess: (i) progress to date; (ii) performance against the monitorable
- 8 -



indicators; (iii) the validity of each of the Project's critical assumptions and risks (Section F.2); and (iv) any
specific implementation problems. If necessary, adjustments to project components will be made.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Modernization of the Payments System. Consideration was given to including in the Project an upgrading
of the intrabank payments systems of the major commercial banks in addition to the interbank payments
system. This alternative was rejected following discussions with the central bank and the examination of
current initiatives on this issue by commercial banks. The main commercial banks have created a joint
subsidiary for the development of electronic data transmission networks and the development of electronic
payment instruments, and plan to fund selected projects under preparation. A major challenge for the
success of these initiatives is for banks to reach an agreement on a common infrastructure and a set of
shared facilities. Adopting a common and standardized approach for the modernization of intrabank
information systems at this stage would have introduced considerable delays in project preparation, since
the development of such systems is often considered by incividual banks to be part of their competitive
strategy to gain market share. However, the proposed Project will develop the norms, standards and
regulations for such systems.
Supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure. Using existing public telecommunication lines and circuits
as the backbone for the project components was originally considered, but early investigation indicated that
the technology was too obsolete to support large volumes and provide secure data transmission. However,
some fiber optic lines have been installed recently and macle available to the central bank and other
financial institutions. The new fiber optic lines, which are not yet accessible by the public telephone
system, will help to support the development of a highly reliable and efficient network for secure data
transmission in the financial sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
l___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___  ______ ___ (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objectve (DO)
Macroeconomics and sectoral reforms  Structural Adjustment Loan        S              S
(FYI 996) (completed)
Macroeconomics and sectoral reforms  Economic Rehabilitation           S              S
Support Loan (FY1995)
(completed)
Public enterprise and financial sector   Enterprise and F inancial Sector  S          S
reforms                            Adjustrnent loan (FY1991)
(completed)
Projects with payments system
components in other countries:
China                              Financial Sector Technical          S              S
Assistance Project (on-going)
-9-



Mauritius                        Financial Sector Infrastructure  S             S
Project (on-going)
Uzbekistan                       Financial Institutions Building  S             S
Project (on-going)
Vietnam                          Payment System and Bank          S             S
Modernization Project
(on-going)
Western Africa                   BCEAO Regional Payment           S             S
Systems Project (on-going)
Other development agencies
Canadian International Development   Capital Market Development
Agency                            (1998-1999)
African Development Bank          Credit line to expand bank
credit to the private sector
(1998)
European Union                    MEDA Program Component:
Technical assistance to the
banking sector (on-going)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project management issues and risks typically associated with computer and telecommunications network
development such as procurement issues, incorrect assessment of needs, and inadequate description of
existing facilities have been addressed in design of the Project. Each site included in the proposed
telecommunications network has been subjected to a careful physical examination by international
consultants. Similarly, the geographical dimension of the core telecommunications network is mainly
limited to locations that were subject to on-site examination. The network expansion to more outlying areas
will consist of less complex connections for much lower volumes of transactions. User requirement
specifications in the bidding documents will ensure that vendor solutions will make optimum use of existing
equipment and that any modifications to the project scope or standards are properly managed. The
procurement of the telecommunications equipment for the Project will be carried out by BA in close
consultation with MPT.
The project design also reflects the need for qualified local technicians and adequate investment inputs.
Equipment vendors will be expected to train Algerian personnel and be responsible for supporting the new
systems and networks for a reasonable period after installation.
- 10 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership::
The Project was initiated at the request of the Bank of Algeria. After a hesitant start-up period during
which primary data collection on the payments system took much longer than anticipated, the central bank
has provided sustained collaboration during project preparation. For the development of the
telecommunications network, MPT has granted the Project access to fiber optic lines which have not yet
been made available to the public telephone system. In addition, the Project has benefited from essential
collaboration with MPT in the preparation of the telecom and data transmission component, which
provided critical logistical support for international telecommunications consultants in their assessment of
the current facilities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government requested the Bank to assist in the development of the Project in order to benefit from the
Bank's international expertise on highly technical issues related to the Project. BA and the commercial
banks have had little exposure to the policy, legal and functional design issues associated with modem
electronic payment systems. The consultations during project preparation have provided an opportunity for
effective knowledge transfer with regard to critical system design matters, based on the Bank's experience
in supporting payments system development projects in countries in transition. This has resulted in an
increased local capacity to move into an electronic environment with confidence.
Bank involvement in the preparation of the Project has also enabled the recruitment of international
telecommunications engineers who have provided BA and MPT with expert advice on the assessment of
telecommunications facilities and system integration of the proposed network. Continuing Bank
involvement is required foron-going technical advice, project management support, and project progress
monitoring.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The Project is not intended to be justified on revenue-generation grounds. However, as indicated in the
section below, a portion of the costs of the Project are expected to be recovered through user fees.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The central bank's cost recovery policy for the RTGS system has not yet been fully determined. However,
BA will carry out a study under terns of reference acceptable to the Bank, to determine an appropriate user
fee structure for the recovery of the investment and operating costs of the payments system and the
associated telecommunications infrastructure included in the Project. A fee structure consistent with
international best practice is expected to be applied when the system becomes operational.
Historically, BA has provided clearing and settlement services for interbank payments to the banking
system free of charge. However, based on experience throughout the world, investments in payment
systems modernization can usually be recovered through a combination of membership and user fees over a
period of between five and seven years. According to estimates from similar projects in other countries,
the direct telecommunications costs of an electronic interbank payment system can be recovered with fees
ranging from US$0.10-US$0.60 per transaction. In the United States, for example, the Federal Reserve is
- 11 -



required to recover at least its operating costs on an annual basis. Efficient and well designed payment
mechanisms provide real benefits to users - both commercial banks and their customers - for which
justified fees are readily paid. An increase in transactions volume is the key factor for success. This is
influenced both by the quality of the service provided as well as the relevance of the service to supporting
overall economic activity. The envisaged interbank payments mechanisms will serve both of these
objectives.
Fiscal Impact:
The Project is expected to have minimurn fiscal impact. The Bank loan amnount will be a contingent
liability from a fiscal perspective as the central bank is the executing agency and will be financially
responsible for the project.
3. Technical:
The proposed Project is technically sound and addresses the needs of BA, commercial banks, and other
stakeholders. Project components have been designed to reflect best intemational principles, standards (for
example, BIS and European Union standards) and guidelines, as well as local Algerian realities. User
needs have been identified during preparation activities via detailed data collection and analysis and are
reflected in the project design. The project organization structure also provides an opportunity for
stakeholders to review and participate in all critical project related matters.
The computer systems and networks will comply with key design principles such as application
independence, open system architecture, common standards for network connections and identification,
inter-operability of applications, modularity of system expansion, security of network access and
communications, and system reliability, including appropriate solutions for disaster recovery.
The final and detailed user requirements specifications will acconmnodate various network configurations
and will pennit qualified vendors to offer best practice solutions. They will be described in the project
bidding documents.
Cost estimates for the project are based on the professional views of experienced computer-based payment
system design and telecommunications practitioners. Appropriate allowances for inflation have been made.
In addition, a reasonable level of physical contingencies has also been included in the cost estimates.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Bank of Algeria will be the executing agency for the project, and is establishing a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which is described in Section C.4 above. The role and responsibilities of the central bank are
defined in the 1990 Law on Money and Credit. As of December 1999, BA had about 2,700 full-time and
300 part-time employees of which about 1,500 were attached to the central bank's headquarters. BA's
activities are conducted through eleven divisions, including Bank Supervision, Bank Credit and Regulation,
International Financial Relations, Research, and Bank Training.
The quality of the work undertaken during project preparation provides a basis for strong confidence in the
ability of BA and the commercial banks to implement the Project satisfactorily. However, due to the lack
of specific experience in payments system implementation, equipment suppliers will be expected to support
the operation and maintenance of the system for a reasonable time period after installation.
- 12 -



4.2 Project management:
The Bank of Algeria has limited experience in implementing technology-based projects. To overcome this
weakness, BA is creating a strong PMU that will be fornally established by July 31, 2001 (refer Section
C.4). It will also recruit experienced payment systems and other specialist consultants to provide technical
inputs. Despite BA's limited experience, it is evident that a h-tigh level of interest and motivation toward
project success exists within BA and the commercial banks.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project financial management arrangements are discussed in detail in Annex 6. The financial
management assessment carried out during project preparation indicated that BA's accounting and
financial management system is based on principles and procedures defined by Law 90-10 of April 14,
1990 on Money and Credit. This system does not present accountability issues and can be used for issuing
accounting and financial statements required by the Bank. In this regard, the PMU, under the leadership of
the Project Director and a financial management specialist, will be responsible for developing, by
December 31, 2001, the following: (a) a chart of accounts specific to the Project to be included in the
current accounting system; (b) a list of project characteristics to be used for the needed customization, in
order to enable the issuance of periodic PFSs and PMRs; and (c) a financial management procedures
manual. These actions will be carried out in accordance with a time-bound action plan, acceptable to the
Bank, which is summarized in Annex 6. If successfully implemented, any project risks due to
non-compliance with Bank requirements will be substantially mitigated.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project is classified in environmental category "C" because the telecommunications network is
expected to use existing connections. New fiber optic lines will be replacing existing copper wires. The
telecommunications and computer equipment will meet intemational standards and, except for the
telecommunications connections, will be located inside existing buildings.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
- 13 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project does not raise social issues of concern to the Bank, the Government of Algeria, project
participants or beneficiaries.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A participatory approach was adopted from the outset. The Bank of Algeria, the Ministry of Finance, the
main financial institutions of Algeria, and the MPT have been actively involved in all aspects of project
design. The project management structure, described previously, reflects the continuing involvement of all
affected parties.
BA has coordinated data collection from commercial banks and organized meetings with the senior
management of commercial banks to discuss the major issues of payment system design. Also, MPT has
provided essential logistical support to international consultants in their assessment of existing
telecommunications facilities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PoliXy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
- 14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The payments system component is sustainable. Once implemented, the new automated payment and
liquidity management mechanisms will represent a vital component of the Algerian financial sector
infrastructure and will be used extensively by BA, the commercial banks, and the customers of the
commercial banks.
The information systems development and the telecommunications infrastructure components are expected
to provide reliable and efficient services for many years to come. The networks will satisfy key design
criteria and include adequate back-up support both in terms of capacity, spare parts and disaster recovery
procedures. Equipment suppliers will provide pilot testing and start-up maintenance for a sufficient period
after installation. In addition, MPT and qualified local firms in system management identified during
project preparation are capable of providing the necessary technical assistance to BA personnel in charge
of information technology.
The project components represent key elements of financial sector modernization and will provide
sustainable benefits irrespective of changes or reforms in the structure and financial condition of the
banking system.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratirn_      _     Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Failure by banks to develop information     S         The Project will provide headquarters of the
technology for the provision of bank                  major banks with access to the proposed
services would limit the overall benefits of          electronic data transmission network. Each
the Project.                                          bank's initiative to develop information
technology across its branch network is beyond
the scope of the Project. The Project will
include linkages to facilitate industry-wide
initiatives.
Lack of focus by financial institutions on  S         Growing competitiveness within the financial
customer service                                      sector will help to strengthen the focus on
customer needs and the provision of basic
financial services
Lack of agreement by commercial banks       S         Strong participatory approach in the design of
on participation criteria and interfaces for          the new payments systems
the payments systems
Loss of qualified BA technical staff        M         A robust PMU is in place and will be formally
established by July 31, 2001. Also, MPT and
qualified local firms are capable of providing
assistance if necessary
Deterioration in economic, political and    M         Government commitment to economic growth
social environment                                    and stability is strong
- 15 -



From Components to Outputs
Deterioration of security situation         M         Current situation is stable and the Government
impedes on-site participation of                     is committed to maintaining a secure
international consultants and suppliers in            environment.
project implementation.
Inadequate understanding or cooperation    M          BA will provide leadership and take a strong
among the various stakeholders in the                 collaborative approach during project
development of the payments system,                   preparation and implementation, through means
including low-value systems and the                   such as the establishment of a Consultative
electronic clearing house                             Committee chaired by BA
Inadequate project management skills in    M          A strong PMU headed by an experienced Project
BA, particularly for procurement                      Director is being established
Problems with procurement processes         M         Design of a transparent system for procurement
and use of extemal consultants to prepare and
finalize technical specifications and assist with
the bid evaluation process
Insufficient collaboration between BA and   M         Early involvement of MPT in project
MPT in the implementation of the telecom              preparation and active participation in the
infrastructure component                              project design and development plan. Also, a
Protocol agreement will be entered into by BA
and MPT as a condition for effectiveness
Inadequate understanding by BA of the       M         A robust PMU is being established. Also, the
payment system requirements and their                 procurement strategy will require the successful
technical and operational implications                vendor to support the new systems and
adequately transfer know-how to local personnel
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
There are risks associated with all complex system development projects, and the proposed Project is no
exception. Steps have been taken to manage the associated risks, as noted below:
* Inadequate cooperation between the various stakeholders in the Project could result in a lack of
commitment and failure to realize project objectives. Project preparation has fully involved the various
stakeholders, and the Project has received the approval of the various parties involved. Established
organizational structures will be used for procurement, construction and installation phases of the
project. The roles, responsibilities, working level relationships, and authorities of the involved
organizations have been defined and will ensure the active involvement of all key parties to the Project
in making critical decisions. Lack of cooperation is considered to be a modest risk.
* An irnportant project risk relates to the procurement process. The award of contracts for computer
hardware and software and telecommunications equipment is technically complex, and needs to be
carefully managed. This risk has been minimized in the proposed Project through the design of a
transparent system for procurement and through the planned use of consultants to help prepare and
finalize technical specifications and assist with the bid evaluation process. Procurement risk is
considered to be a modest risk and therefore must be carefully monitored.
* Incomplete understanding of the payment system requirements and their technical and operational
implications could result in sub-optimal decisions and a negative impact on overall system quality. To
- 16 -



avoid this threat and to ensure the medium-term availability of all essential skills and knowledge, the
acquisition strategy makes provision for the successful vendor to support the new systems and
adequately transfer know-how to local personnel via their active participation in all aspects of the "user
acceptance testing" activities. Operational risk is considered to be modest.
* Inadequate project management and procurement skills could result in project delays, cost over-runs
and adverse changes in project scope. Steps have been taken to limit these risks through the
establishment of a robust project management structure and implementation plan defining all key
implementation actions. In addition, the Bank of Algeria has appointed an experienced Project
Director. Project management risk is therefore considered to be modest.
*   Pressure to implement changes in project scope during the construction phase of the project could
result in delays and cost increases. In any development project, the cost of making changes increases
as the project proceeds, and vendors may request excessive payments for implementing any requested
late changes. Steps are being taken to ensure that the technical specifications included in the
procurement documents are complete and that only essential changes are accepted for action during
implementation. Change control is considered a modest risk and must be carefully monitored.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no anticipated controversial aspects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions for effectiveness are:
(i) the signing of a Protocol ("Convention") between BA Emd the MPT, acceptable to the Bank, that defines
the responsibilities and obligations of BA and MPT, respectively, in relation to the carrying out of the
telecommunications infrastructure component of the Project, and sets out the conditions under which MPT
will operate the telecommunications networks to be established under the Project (refer Section C.4 and
Annex 2 of the PAD); and
(ii) the submission of a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank (refer Section C.4 and Annex
2 of the PAD).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
A condition for disbursement will be the submission of a study by the Borrower to the Bank, satisfactory to
the Bank, to identify the technical infrastructure for BA's intemal and extemal telecommunications and
information systems networks that is required for the processing of interbank payment transactions, BA's
intemal information data, and extemal interbank data, and to prepare a suitable plan for the progressive
utilization of the infrastructure and the sharing among users of its operational costs (refer Annex 2 of the
PAD). The Borrower will carry out the study's recommendations, after exchanging views with the Bank
and taking the Bank's comments into account, wiffiin three months after the Bank receives the study report.
In order to help expedite the start of project implementation, retroactive financing not exceeding
- 17-



US$1,650,000 (10 percent of the Loan amount) will be made available for eligible expenditures made after
April 1, 2001, but before the date of Loan signing, for goods and consultant services and training under all
components of the Project except for BA's internal and external telecommunications and infonnation
systems networks referred to above with respect to the condition for disbursement (refer Annex 6 of the
PAD).
The Borrower will establish by July 31, 2001, and thereafter maintain a Project Management Unit whose
staffing and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank (refer Section C.4 of the PAD).
The Borrower will carry out a mid-term review by December 31, 2003 (refer Section C.4 of the PAD).
The Borrower will carry out a time-bound action plan for strengthening its financial management system to
enable it to prepare quarterly PMRs acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 2001 (refer Section C.4 and
Annex 6 of the PAD).
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
r 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete, but the draft procurement
documents require further revision that is currently underway. This is not expected to cause any significant
delays in the start of project implementation. The draft Project Implementation Plan reviewed at Loan
negotiations also requires some revisions. The submission of a PIP satisfactory to the Bank has therefore
been made a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Deane N. Jor                  ,  Emmanuel Forestier                 Chs an Delvoie
Team LeadK                        Sector Manager/Director           Cou try ManagerlDire for
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Key Perfonnrance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Montoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthening of the financial Expansion of bank financial  Bank of Algeria (BA) reports  Financial sector development
sector and the banking system  intermediation as measured by and monetary statistics, bank  is essential for sustained
lending and deposit        reporting data and financial   economic growth and stability
operations                 statements
Emergence of retail banking
services (e.g., credit cards)
Stronger linkages with global
markets
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
More efficient enabling    Growth in the utilization of   BA reports and statistics;  Govemment actively pursues
infrastructure for basic   the RTGS system and in the   bank reporting data and  its policy to seek private
financial services         amount of large-value      financial statements; and  participation in the banking
payments processed by the    project supervision findings   sector and to implement a
system. The large value                               liberal and pragmatic policy
payments processed by the                             on foreign entry
RTGS system on a daily basis
should rise to 70 % of the
total value of all transactions
within the banking system
within 6 months of system
cut-over, and to 80 % within
one year after system cut-over
Demonstrable reduction in the                         Strong government
use of large-value checks                             commitment and support to
following system cut-over                             financial sector development
Improved quality of BA's                              Low-value payments system is
policy analyses, knowledge                            also completed and operates
management, services to the                           efficiently
financial sector, and monetary
policy



Key Performance
e h  ofObjeeciVes                 ind:catoir         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Payments System        1. a) Large-value transactions Quarterly progress reports    Close collaboration between
Modernization - A         are settled in real time with   from BA that are designed to  BA and the financial sector
well-functioning RTGS     intra-day finality         monitor progress on        institutions and donors
system, including associated   1. b) Incidence of large-value  performance indicators; BA   providing complementary
regulatory systems, and the   settlement delays exceeding   reports and statistics; bank    inputs and systems for the
adoption of norms, standards  one day are virtually  reporting data and financial  low-value payments system
and regulations for future low  eliminated within one year of statistics; and project
value payments systems    system cut-over            supervision findings
1. c) RTGS system availability
of at least 90% within one
year of system cut-over, and
98 % within two years of
system cut-over
1. d) Norms and standards for
low-value payments systems
are completed and published
by Decedmber 2002
2. Information Systems    2. Improved quality and                               Commercial banks and
Modernization for the Bank of timeliness of the central                         financial institutions develop
Algeria - Improved        bank's financial and economic                         a strong focus on providing
information systems are   statistics and publications                           high quality service and
operational                                                                     satisfying customer needs
including improved customer
account management
3. Supporting              3. The telecommunications                            Greater use of modern
Telecommunications        infrastructure enables the                            information systems
Infrastructure -          achievement of the                                    technology by the banking
Well-functioning          performance indicators given                          sector
telecommunications links  above for the payment systems
serving the payments systems, and BA information systems
BA information systems and
other communications among
financial sector participants
4. Project Management     4. Project implementation                             Continued availability of
Support - A well-functioning  proceeds smoothly and in                          qualified payments and
PMU with adequate capacity  accordance with the Project                         information systems personnel
to implement the Project.    Implementation Plan.                               at BA
Stable economic, political and
social environment
- 20 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components J      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Payments System        1. Computer and            Quarterly progress reports    The maintenance of a PMU in
Modernization -           telecommunications         fromn BA; project supervision  BA with strong project
a) Implementation of RTGS   equipment, network design    activities and findings  management and procurement
system for large-value    and engineering works, and                            skills in both payments
transactions including norms, technical assistance and                          systems and
standards and regulations;   training:                                          telecommunications
b) Development of norms,   Bank loan financing: US$4.2
standards and regulations for  million equivalent.
a future low-value payment   Government financing:
system including an electronic $/facilities valued at about
clearing house            US$0.6 million equivalent
2. Information Systems    2. Computer equipment,                                Close collaboration and strong
Modernization for the Bank of software, and technical                           coordination between MPT
Algeria - Systems         assistance and training:                              and BA in the implementation
development and           Bank loan financing: US$4.3                           of the project
implementation            million equivalent.
Government financing:
$/facilities valued at about
US$0.1 million equivalent
3. Supporting             3. Telecommunications                                 Close collaboration and
Telecommunications        equipment, network design                             cooperation among the several
Infrastructure -          and engineering works, and                            other stakeholders in the
a) Telecommunications ring  technical assistance and                            project including the banking
network linking BA offices in training:                                         institutions and donors who
Algiers, with the headquarters Bank loan financing: US$7.5                      are providing support for
of commercial banks within   million equivalent.                                complementary components
Algiers, and with the regional Govemment financing:                             of the overall payments
offices of BA countrywide;    $/facilities valued at about                      system infrastructure
b) Telecommunications     US$0.7 million equivalent
network to process inter-bank
payment transactions and
BA's internal information
data
4. Project Management     4. Equipment, technical                               Adequate understanding by
Support - Strengthening of   assistance and training:                           BA of payment system
the PMU's capabilities to  Bank loan financing: US$0.3                          requirements and of their
implement the Project     million equivalent.                                   technical and operational
Govemment financing:                                 implications
$/facilities valued at about
US$0.3 million equivalent
- 21 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
The proposed Project consists of the following four components:
1.    Modernization and development of payments systems;
2.    Modernization and development of the Bank of Algeria's information systems;
3.    Development of supporting telecommunications infrastructure; and
4.     Project management support.
The Bank of Algeria will carry out the Project in accordance with a Project Implementation Plan,
satisfactory to the Bank. The Plan will be submitted to the Bank prior to effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan.
Global Architecture of the Project
The Payments Systems Component of the Project will help to develop a modernized interbank payments
system that will allow processing of check and electronic fund transfers through efficient and reliable
electronic data transmission and computer networks. The modernized payments systems will facilitate the
secure, rapid and certain transfer of funds domestically and internationally, as advocated by the Committee
on Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS) of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS).
The Project will establish a Real Time Gross Settlements System (RTGS), to enable immediate and
irrevocable "gross settlement" (i.e., each transaction is settled separately in real time on the basis of credit
payment instruments) at the Bank of Algeria of individual, time critical transactions which are usually of
large value. It will accommodate transactions that require sarne day transmission, clearing, settlement and
f-mality. Its key focus will be on speed rather than value. The RTGS system will also be capable of
accommnodating the net settlement of batches of low value transactions, and the cash settlement of securities
transactions on the stock exchange.
Examples of important time critical payment applications include: (i) funds transfers between banks in
order to manage their settlement positions with other banks or with the central bank, thereby significantly
improving the management of the liquidity and reserves while reducing systemic risks; (ii) the rapid
processing of commercial payments between businesses, which is of critical importance to the promotion of
trade and economic development; and (iii) the settlement of transactions made on other financial markets
such as the stock market and money market.
Separately from the proposed Project, the Government plans to introduce new systems to modernize the
payments system for low value transactions, including the proposed establishment of an electronic clearing
house. The Government plans to carry out this task in partnership with individual Algerian commercial
banks and banking institutions. A major challenge will be to reach agreement on a common infrastructure
and a set of shared facilities.
The Bank of Algeria, however, is charged with the responsibility of developing norms, standards and
regulations applicable to all low-value payments systems, including an electronic clearing house, that will
accord with international standards and ensure that future low-value systems can interface with and be
integrated into the RTGS system. In addition, it is the central bank's responsibility to help ensure the
- 22 -



safety, soundness, efficiency and fairness of the payments systems while also avoiding systemic risk to the
banking system. Technical assistance is included in the Project to support the Bank of Algeria in the
fulfillment of this role.
The Information Systems Development Component of the Project will modemize the information systems
and computer networks of the Bank of Algeria to provide the essential infrastructure necessary for the
well-functioning of the RTGS system including its interfaces with BA's current and future general
accounting systems. It will also strengthen BA's capacity to carry out higher quality data and policy
analyses necessary for improved conduct of monetary policy and for providing better information and
knowledge management services to banks and other financial sector institutions.
The Telecommunications Infrastructure Development Component will provide the technological backbone
of high speed telecommunications links necessary for the modemization of the payments systems. In
addition, it will provide the telecommunications capacity necessary to serve BA's local and global
information systems requirements as well as other communications links within the financial sector.
The global architecture of the Project is illustrated in the diagram below.
i Setlement in Ce,ntral Bank 
PaystentIfmnaios          Electronic Clearin!3 House     Securities Clearing and
Fraud and Money            Checks, Cards, and Other         Settlement Systems
Launderinq Deterrenc \              nstruments    X  
Networks
F'F  Clients                 ~~~Clients                     Cients
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.80 million
Features of the Paments Systems Comnonent
The Bank of Algeria, as the central bank, will manage and operate the RTGS system, as is usual in most
countries, particularly since settlements that arise from within the banking system will affect the banks'
reserve positions with the central bank. Given the large values of most t-ansactions expected to be
processed by the RTGS system, it will incorporate highly effective and secure procedures to control credit
risk, protect against fraud, and maintain the confidentiality and integrity of the transactions and of the
underlying records.
- 23 -



The architecture of the RTGS system will include the elements illustrated in the diagram below.
Bank A Headquarters                                             Bank B Headquarters|
Bank of Algeria Network
JL                           T 
L       RTGS Interface
Queuing Mechanisms                                                Bank of Algeria
Operations
Optimization Process  |,  Centralized Settlement Account        Low-Value Payments
Management                        System
Liquidity Management                                             Foreign Systems
Liquidity_Mana ementJ81~               Interfaces
Bank of Algeria General e
Interface
Following the tendering process for the RTGS system, BA will need to choose between two possible
options for data communications between the RTGS system and the commercial banks. One option would
use the existing international, commercially operated and proprietary SWIFT system, and the other would
use the domestic communications network operated by BA. Each option involves a different set of
advantages and disadvantages. The tendering process would seek bids on both options. The Project
includes funding to enable the SWIFT option to be selected if this is found to be advantageous.
The payments systems component includes the following sub-components:
(i) RTGS applications system development, including associated support for installation and
testing, operational and recurrent costs for the first year's operations, and staff training;
(ii) Computer network equipment and operating software, including computer servers and
workstations;
(iii) Technical assistance and training, including specialized consultant services in: (a) RTGS
systems and regulation; (b) low value payment systems and electronic clearing; (c) payment
systems management including regulations and security (approximately 15 staff months of
consultant services in total);
(iv) Initial subscription to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
(SWIFT) service, if applicable; and
(v) Studies to identify appropriate participant fees, interface standards and processing rules for the
clearing and settlement of both large value and retail banking activity payments.
BA will ensure that the design of the system's interfaces shall comply with intemational standards, as
advocated by the BIS Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS), and be flexible enough to
accomodate other existing or proposed components of the overall payments system in Algeria, including the
future small payments system.
- 24 -



The payments systems component is expected to be implemented over a period of two years from the
issuance of the bidding documents for the RTGS system, which is expected by July 2001. System cut-over
of the RTGS system is scheduled for December 2002. Staff training and other supplier assistance
operations would continue for approximately an additional six months, to July 2003. The norms and
standards for the low value payments system and the electronic clearing house are expected to be completed
and published by December 2002.
BA will also carry out a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to determine an
appropriate user fee structure for recovering a reasonable proportion of the investment and operating costs
of the overall payments system and of the telecommunications infrastructure, described below. Towards
this objective, the study will define the system's expected operating costs, expected usage volumes by
major clients, and proposed user fee structures.
Project Component 2 - US$4.50 million
Features of the Bank of Algeria Information Systems Component
The information systems component for the Bank of Algeria includes the following sub-components:
(i) Technical supporting infrastructure for ihe RTGS system, including local networks and
workstations, servers and software;
(ii) Computer hardware and software (which are not included under the telecommunications
infrastructure component described below) for BA's internal information systems (e.g.,
workstations and access terminals) at its oflices in Algiers; and
(iii) Technical assistance and training for the RTGS system and BA's information systems (about 9
staff months of consultant services).
Implementation of the first sub-component will be carried out together with the implementation of the
related payments systems component of the Project. It is expected to be implemented over a period of
about 18 months from the issuance of the bidding documents for the RTGS system, which is expected by
July 2001. The first sub-component should therefore be operational by December 2002. The second
sub-component would be implemented together with BA's internal and external telecommunications
networks under the telecommunications infrastructure component described below. BA's new information
systems are expected to be operational by about December 2004.
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.10 million
Features of the Supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure Component
The telecommunications infrastructure component includes the following sub-components:
(i) A high capacity, secure, telecommunications optical ring network in Algiers, linking BA's offices in
Algiers, with the headquarters offices of commercial banks in Algiers, and with BA's 47 regional offices
around the country;
(ii) Telecommunications hardware and software (which are not included under the information systems
component) for BA's internal and external telecommunications and information systems networks (e.g.,
WAN and LAN networks and interfaces, routers, encoding devices and connections) in order to process
interbank payment transactions, BA's internal information data, and external interbank data; and
(iii) Technical assistance and training for telecommrunications engineering, security audits, technical
specifications, and operations (approximately one staff year of consultant services).
- 25 -



A condition for disbursement for sub-component (ii) above will be the prior completion of: (i) a study,
satisfactory to the Bank, to identify the requisite technical infrastructure for the sub-component, and (ii) a
suitable plan for the progressive utilization of the infrastructure and for the sharing among users of its
operational costs. The percentage of total project costs represented by sub-component (ii) is about 29
percent.
For the implementation of the telecommunications infrastructure component, BA and the Ministry of Posts
and Telecommunications (MPT) will conclude, prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan, a Protocol ("
Convention") acceptable to the Bank, that defines the responsibilities and obligations of each party in
relation to the carrying out of the component, and the sets out the conditions under which MPT will operate
the telecommunications networks to be established under the component.
The supporting telecommunications infrastructure is expected to be installed over a period of two years
from the issuance of the bidding documents for the optical ring network, expected by July 2001. The
telecommunications loop is expected to be operational by December 2002. The internal and external
network required for the processing of interbank payment transactions, BA's internal information data and
external interbank data is expected to be completed by about July 2004.
Project Component 4 - US$0.60 million
Features of the Project Managzement Support Component
The project management support component includes technical assistance and training, and a small amount
of equipment, to strengthen the capabilities of the Project Management Unit (Comite Technique) to
implement the Project.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Cost By Component            Local        Foreign         Total
US$ million    US$ million    US$ million
1. Payment Systems Development
RTGS applications system development, and     0.4           2.6            3.0
operational and recurrent costs the first year's
operations
Computer network equipment                    0.1           0.6           0.7
Technical assistance and training             0.1           0.4            0.5
Subscription to SWIFT                         0.0           0.2           0.2
Sub-total                                     0.6           3.8           4.4
2. Information Systems Development
Technical supporting infrastructure for RTGS  0.0           0.4            0.4
System
Computer hardware, software and testing       0.1           3.3            3.4
Technical assistance and training             0.0           0.3            0.3
Sub-total                                     0.1           4.0           4.1
3. Telecommunications Infrastructure
Infrastructure for optical ring network       0.2           1.5            1.7
Telecommunications hardware and software for  0.4           4.8           5.2
BA's internal and external networks
Technical assistance and training             0.1           0.5           0.6
Sub-total                                     0.7           6.8           7.5
4. Project Management Support
Goods, technical assistance and training      0.4           0.2           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                           1.8           14.8          16.6
Physical contingencies*                      0.1           0.7           0.8
Price contingencies**                        0.1           0.5           0.6
Total Project Cost                            2.0           16.0          18.0
Front-End Fee                                 0.0           0.2            0.2
Total Project Cost (incL. Front-End Fee)      2.0     |    16.2           18.2
* Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to the costs of hardware and equipment and their
installation.
** Price contingencies have been applied to total baseline costs plus physical contingencies and are based
on estimated annual inflation of 3 percent in foreign costs and 4 percent in local costs.
- 27 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Not applicable.
- 28 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Years Ending
June 30, 2002 to June 30, 2005
Y Yearl     Year2  =Year 3  1 Year 4        Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.0        4.5       6.5        5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          2.0       4.5        6.5        5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              2.2       4.5        6.5        5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.0        4.0        6.0       4.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.2        0.5        0.5       0.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     2.2        4.5       6.5        5.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Tmplementation proceeds in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan.
- 29 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Procurement
A. Procurement Responsibilities
The Bank of Algeria (BA), the execuing agency of the Bank loan to the Government, has adequate
experience in dealing with procurement. BA's Project Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for the
overall procurement activities of the Project, including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed
with the Bank.
B. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement under the proposed Project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999, using Standard Bidding Documents, Contract Forms, and Evaluation
Forms agreed with the Bank. In particular, the Bank's Bidding Documents relating to single and two-stage
procurement of computer systems will be used. The procurement arrangement, contract thresholds, and
Bank financing ratios are indicated in Tables A, B, and C of this Annex. Consultants will be selected in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection of Consultants, January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999, using the Standard Request For Proposals, Contract Forms, and Evaluation
Report agreed with the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods to be procured under the Project will mainly
comprise specialized computer hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and systems
development works. For contracts each estimated to cost US$ 250,000 or more, procurement will be by
ICB method as described below. To the extent possible, contracts for goods will be grouped into bidding
packages of more than US$250,000 equivalent and procured through ICB procedures, using Bank-issued
standard bidding documents.
(a) Advertisement. As early as possible but no later than the time major items to be procured are
identified, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in Development Business announcing
ICB procurement packages and consultant services and inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors
and consultants to send their expression of interest to the Project Management Unit (PMI) in Algeria. The
GPN will also be published in the local Algerian press and an intemational specialized publication. The
GPN will be followed by specific advertisements for major contracts in the local press.
(b) Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The most recent bidding documents approved by the
Bank for each method of procurement of Goods, Works and Consulting Services will be used by the BA.
An agreement will be reached with the Bank on sample documents for each method before use.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 250,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under NCB
method as described below. A sample NCB document will be cleared for use by the BA as in the case of
ICB. Awards will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder based on bid evaluation criteria
- 30 -



specified in the bidding documents and no new criteria will be adopted. Bids will be opened in public on the
same day and time as the bid submission deadline.
International Shopping (IS)/National Shopping (NS). IS/NS will be used for procuring goods
(including equipment, materials, commodities, etc.) of standard specifications available off-the-shelf for
contracts each estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$ 250,000. IS requires comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two
countries. Quotations for foreign goods located in Algeria and offered by a firm located in Algeria, are
considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the "two different countries" rule. The list of
firms will be prepared by giving first consideration to those who have expressed interest in response to the
press publications (e.g. GPN, local press). In order to obtain the minimum requirement of three
quotations, efforts should be made to request quotations from more than three firms where practical, as a
means of taking into account the possibility that some of them may not submit quotations. Under
International and National Shopping procedures, requests for quotations may be sent and quotations
obtained by fax.
Selection of Consultants
Firms
All contracts for firms will be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except
for smaller contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or less, which may be procured using
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000. The use of the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) is mandatory for contracts estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 equivalent. SRFP will include two standard forms of contract: one for complex time-based
consultant assignments, for which remuneration is determined on the basis of time actually spent by
consultants, and the other for assignments remunerated on a lump-sum basis.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services will be provided by individual consultants, selected by comparison of
qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000.
C. Assessment of the Borrower's Capacity to Implement the Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment (PCA) of the project implementing agency, PMU, was initiated
during project preparation and completed during project appraisal. The PCA concluded that BA has its
own procurement procedures and is not subject to Algeria's Procurement Legislation. These procedures are
generally in line with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines as BA has had prior experience with a Bank
project that was closed in 1994. The overall risk assessment resulting from the BA's capacity assessment is
judged to be modest. However, the PMU will need to have in place a satisfactory system for filing,
monitoring and reporting procurement actions.
Procurement Plan
BA has drafted a Procurement Plan for project implementation. The proposed Plan will be
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines. At the end of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement
- 31 -



Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Mission Proposed
The proposed frequency of procurement supervision missions, including special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits, is one every year, in conjunction with supervision missions for the
overall review of project implementation.
Procurement Records
Detailed procurement records, reflecting the Project's consultant assignments, services, and goods
including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process, review and audits, will be maintained
by the PMU. The records, which will be maintained for at least two years after the Project's closing date,
should include advertisements, bidding documents/request for proposals, terms of reference (TORs), bid
evaluation reports/technical and financial evaluation reports, signed contracts with related addenda and
amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information.
Bank Procurement Review
The Bank's review of selection of consultants will be in accordance with the provisions stipulated
in the Loan Agreement and Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants. Subject to the threshold level, the Bank's review will consist of prior review, before inviting
proposals and post review, after signing the contract but prior to withdrawal of funds (or prior to the first
replenishment of the Special Account). The review will include, but not be limited to, advertising,
consultant short list, TORs, letters of invitation (LOI), applicable procedures, selection criteria, cost
estimate, the contract packaging, evaluation of proposals, contract implementation program, etc.
The Bank's review of procurement of goods will be in accordance with the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement and Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
Prior Bank Review
The Bank's prior review requirements will be applicable to the procurement of goods for: (i)
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US $250,000 or more, per contract, under ICB procedures;
and (ii) the first three-contracts estimated to cost less than US $250,000 per contract; under NCB
procedures.
- 32 -



The Bank's prior review will also be applicable to: (i) consultant contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more, per contract, under QCBS procedures, generally intended for
consulting firms; (ii) amendments to contracts for employment of consulting firms raising their contract
value to US$100,000 or more; (iii) amendments to contracts for individual consultants raising their
contract value to US$50,000 or more; (iv) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably detennined by the
Bank (i.e., special audit); and (v) all sole source contracts. In addition, in all cases, for contracts with
firms or with individual consultants, regardless of the estimated contract cost, the Bank should be given the
opportunity to review, comment and provide its "no-objection" to the tenns of reference, prior to inviting
consultant proposals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB           Other         N.B.F,    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             15.50             0.00          0.30          0.10         15.90
(14.30)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (14.30)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          1.80          0.10         1.90
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00           0.20          0.00         0.20
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.20)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00            0.00           0.20          0.00         0.20
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.20)
Total                             15.50             0.00          2.50          0.20         18.20
_ __   (14.30)         (0.00)         (2.20)        (0.00)      (16.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value'                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                        >250                     ICB                       All
50-250                   NCB                First three contracts
<25                    IS/NS                      None
3. Services(firms)              >100                    QCBS                       All
<100                  QCBS/CQ             TORs and short lists
(individuals)           >50            See Section V of Guidelines All TORs, Contracts, CVs
<25           See Section V of Guidelines     TORs only
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category            Amount in        Financing Percentage
Us$
million
1. Payment Systems Development
Works                                     0.0              Not applicable
Goods                                     3.2        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                 0.5                   100%
Miscellaneous (SWIFT subscription)        0.2                  100%
Sub-total                                   3.9
2. Information Systems Development
Works                                     0 0              Not applicable
Goods                                     3.7        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                 0.3                  100%
Sub-total                                   4.0
3. Telecommunications Infrastructure      _
Works                                     0.0              Not applicable
Goods                                     6.3        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                  0.6                  100%
Sub-total                                   6.9
4. Project Management Support
Works                                     0.0              Not applicable
Goods                                     Cl. I      100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                             _1.2                      100%
Sub-total                                   Cl.3
Contingencies                                1.2
Total Expenditures from Loan Proceeds       16.3
Front-End Fee                               0.2                   100%
Total Project Cost (inl. Front-End Fee)     18.2
- 35 -



Disbursements will be made against standard IBRD documentation. As projected by the Bank's standard
disbursement profiles, disbursements will be completed about four months after project completion.
In order to help expedite the start of project implementation, retroactive financing not exceeding
US$1,650,000 (10% of the proposed Loan amount) will be made available for eligible expenditures made
after April 1, 2001, but before the date of Loan signing, for goods and consultant services and training
under all components of the Project except for BA's internal and external telecommunications and
information systems networks.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement against goods contracts exceeding $250,000, and consultants' contracts exceeding $100,000
for firms and $50,000 for individuals will be fully documented. For all other expenditures, disbursements
can be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs will not be
submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the Bank of Algeria and made available to Bank staff during
supervision missions and to the project auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the
Loan Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account in US dollars will be established at the Bank of
Algeria to cover part of the IBRD's share of eligible expenditures. It will be managed and administered by
the Bank of Algeria. The authorized allocation will be the equivalent of US$1.5 million covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by the IBRD. Initially, the authorized allocation
will be limited to US$1.0 million until cumulative disbursements reach a level of US$4.0 million. To the
extent possible, all of the IBRD's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special Account. In
addition, all expenditures of less than US$100,000 equivalent that are eligible for IBRD financing will be
paid from the Special Account.
PMU will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting
documentation for expenditures incurred and will retain and make the documents available for review by
Bank supervision missions and the project auditors. The replenishment applications will include reconciled
bank statements and other documents as may be required.
Financial Management Assessment:
A. Institutional and Legal Framework
The Financial Management System (FMS) followed by the Bank of Algeria to manage its own activity is
based on principles and procedures defined by Law 90-10 of April 14, 1990 on Money and Credit.
Accounting and reporting systems. An accrual-based accounting system is in place and is reflected in
computerized legal books in accordance with Section 4 of Law 90-10. The information system is quite
developed and will enable the necessary infonnation for the management of operational activity to be
generated.
Control system. By Presidential decree, two auditors are nominated and assigned fiduciary responsibility
- 36 -



for ongoing auditing of the annual activity and accounts. The auditors are responsible for audit oversight
of all operations, transactions and accounts. They are required to issue an annual audit report, to be
transmitted to the Minister of Finance, no later than three months after the closing of the fiscal year.
B. Financial Management Assessment
The financial management assessment carried out during project preparation indicated that BA's accounting
and financial management system does not present accountability issues and can be used to manage project
accounts and issue Project Management Reports specific to the project. The chart of accounts will be
extended to include the project components and activities. Customization will be undertaken to allow the
issuance of financial and monitoring reports.
C. Project Implementation
Project Management. The overall responsibility for project implementation will be delegated to the Project
Management Unit (PMU). The PMU has been set up during the last stages of preparation and a Project
Director (an experienced project manager) has been appointed. A qualified accounting and financial
management specialist has been added to the staff of the PMU. The PMU will be in charge of implementing
the project in accordance with the directives of the Steering Committee and with the Project Implementation
Plan.
Financial Management Arrangements. The Project Director (PD) will maintain, with the assistance of the
financial management specialist, acceptable project accounts. The PD and financial management specialist
will assure the issuance of annual Project Financial Statements (PFSs) and quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) acceptable to the Bank and their submission to the Bank and to the auditors. Procedures
for accounting and financial reporting, as well as internal control mechanisms specific to the Project that
aim at meeting Bank requirements, will be defined in writing and incorporated into the Project
Implementation Plan. In order to implement a sound financial management system, the PD will cany out
the following actions:
*  Staffing. Job descriptions and responsibilities will be issued in writing and included in a Financial
Management Procedures Manual (FMPM).
*   Designation of a financial coordinator within BA's financial department who would officially
coordinate with PMU and World Bank staff. This designation aims at assuring needed efficiency in
disbursements.
*   Financial managementprocedures. These procedures will reflect the flow of funds, internal control
rules, payment and disbursement procedures, the relationship between the PMU and external entities
involved in project implementation, and reporting procedures and rules.
*   Chart of accounts. BA's current chart of accounts will be updated by the accounting department to
reflect the project components and detailed activities. Specific codes will be added in order to identify
the project categories and the related financing percentages.
*   Customization of outputs in order to enable PMRs to be issued directly from the accounting system
and also to enable analyses by components and categories as well as for monitoring and evaluation
indicators.
- 37' -



D. Financial Management Characteristics
Organization of the PMU. The Project Director will be responsible for monitoring and coordination as well
as procurement, finance, budgeting, accounting and reporting functions. The PD will be assisted by a
financial management specialist, among others.
Financial and accounting policies for the Project have to be developed. These policies are crucial for
ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance
staff, ensuring unifornity, and enforcing accountability. These policies will, inter alia, cover the following
aspects: (i) project expenditures, including their classification; (ii) the eligibility of expenditures for
reimbursement from the Bank loan; and (iii) project accounting policies.
Project Accounting System. The PD will act on behalf of BA and would be responsible for project financial
management and accounting duties. He will maintain accounting records specific to the Project that will
enable the issuance of annual PFSs and quarterly PMRs. The PD will submit these documents on a timely
basis to the Bank and to the auditors. The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i) Records of accounts specific to the project will be maintained under the general accounting system of
BA. The records will reflect detailed transaction flows and provide summaried required for monitoring and
evaluation purposes. Annual PFSs and quarterly PM!Rs will be issued based on data from the records.
(ii) Project accounting will cover all sources and uses of project funds. This will include payments received
and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not) will be reflected
in the reporting system. Disbursements made by the World Bank directly and Special Account transactions
will be included in the project accounting system. Counterpart funds will be included and reflected
separately in the PFSs and PMRs.
(iii) Project-related transactions and activities will be distinguished from other activities. This distinction
will be reflected at the data capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing all
projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project will be prepared. A Chart of Accounts
for the project will be developed and included in the general accounting system. The Chart of Accounts will
conform to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents
(Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, etc.). The Chart of Accounts will allow data to
be captured in a manner to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components;
(ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; and (iv) source of funds.
(iv) A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the legal
records will be defined in the FMPM.
(v) Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial costs will be
maintained as part of the project financial management system. These items will be identified and indicated
in the FMPM.
The FMPM will also outline: (i) job responsibilities within the PMU, (ii) monthly and annual accounting
ledger closing and reconciliation procedures, including centralization and consolidation of data, (iii) the
chart of accounts and accounting policies, and (iv) banking and cash procedures. This system will be
reviewed in light of implementation experience and modified as necessary.
- 38 -



Information Flows for Accounting Purposes. The information flows will be as follows:
(i) The PMU will generate and maintain vouchers, records and supporting documentation for expenditures
on activities that are directly managed;
(ii) The PD will transmit to the financial coordinator all the invoices to be paid after confirming that the
related transactions were: (a) eligible; and (b) performed in a satisfactory manner.
(iii) The financial coordinator will proceed with payments after review of the supporting documentation
and their compliance with Bank guidelines. Monthly statements of accounts will be issued by the financial
coordinator and transmitted to the PMU in order to allow close follow-up of the disbursement operations
and an adequate update of the accounting records; and
(iv) Expenditures incurred by the PMU will be reviewed by the project auditors in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's
guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH)), and specific terms of
reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank.
Intemal Controls. The project financial management system will include the following internal control
mechanisms:
(i) Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets
and targets;
(ii) Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which will
govern the financial management and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures will be
included in the FMPM;
(iii) Establishment, at the transaction level, of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring acceptable
internal control mechanisms, such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, easy access to supporting
documentation, etc. These policies and procedures will be reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv) Implementation of a comprehensive and fully computerized system which will enable the issuance of
the annual PFSs and quarterly PMRs.
E. Financial Management Reports
Each quarter: PMRs for the Project will be generated from the computerized fnancial management system.
These reports will be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details) and will be
used for project monitoring and implementation. The PMR will include the following three sections:
(i) Financial Statements, including:
a) Summary of sources and uses of funds
b) Uses of funds by project activity
c) Project balance statement
d) Cash withdrawals and cash forecast
- 39 -



e) Special account statement
(ii) Project progress statements, including output monitoring reports using contract management
information.
(iii) Procurement management report, including:
a) Contract expenditures report - Goods and works
b) Contract expenditures report - Consultants
c) Procurement management report - Goods and works
d) Procurement management report - Consultants
Formats of the reports will be part of the FMPM. These reports will be transmitted to the Bank no later
than 45 days after the calendar quarter.
Annually: Audited PFSs will be submitted to the Bank. PFSs will include: (i) a Statement of Sources and
Utilization of Funds and a Balance Sheet indicating funds received from various sources, project
expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the Project; (ii) schedules classifying project expenditures by
components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iv) a
Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFSs will be
submitted to the Bank as soon as possible and not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Audit Arrangements
BA will appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry out an annual audit according to the
International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's
Guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook), and specific TORs acceptable
to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements
including SOEs and the SA balance, and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report within six months
after the end of each govemment fiscal year.
The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and uses of funds and
expenditures incurred). The TORs for this assignment will include an audit of financial transactions and an
assessment of the financial management system, including a review of intemal control mechanisms. The
PMU will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records and any other
information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor will carry out a concurrent audit during the
fiscal year to bring to management's attention any issues that need to be addressed. This will strengthen
internal controls and will facilitate early completion of the annual audit.
G. Disbursements
Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made initially on the basis of the traditional method
(reimbursements with full documentation and against SOEs, and direct payments). The Govemment could
opt for PMR-based disbursement after an assessment of the financial management system indicates that the
system in place is operating satisfactorily. This assessment will be carried out no later than December 31,
2001.
- 40 -



H. Financial Management Action Plan
The PMU Director will oversee the implementation of the financial management action plan during a period
of six months as follows:
Action                           Output               Responsibility    Effective date
1. PMU Staffing                         Detailed job position    BA                 June 2001
description
2. Designation of the financial         Letter of designation    BA                 June 2001
coordinator
3. Issuing of the FMPM including the    Draft of the FMPM to be    PD               August 2001
chart of accounts                       submitted to the Bank
4. Customization of the accounting system   Creation of sub accounts   PD           September 2001
for the reporting purposes              and specific fields
5. Implementation of the accounting and    Setting up of the system  PD             October 2001
reporting systems                       and testing
6. Issuing of the first PMR             PMR to be submitted to    PD                See Note I
the Bank
7. Assessment of the financial          Assessment report        Bank staff         See Note 2
management system
Note 1: No later than 45 days after the first quarter following the Date of Effectiveness.
Note 2: One month after the issuance of the first PMR by BA.
- 41 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           36
First Bank mission (identification)             03/06/98                      03/06/98
Appraisal mission departure                     02/01/99                      03/01/99
Negotiations                                    05/28/2001                    05/28/2001
,Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/15/2001
Prepared by:
Prepared by: Bank of Algeria (BA) with the assistance of the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHIRD Grant (TF 027139)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Hadi Abushakra                    Senior Counsel
Fatoumata Sy Ba                   Private Sector Specialist
Dominique Bichara                 Counsel
Denis Chaput                      Principal Financial Sector Specialist (Task Team Leader to 09/2000)
Charles Garrigues                 Senior Payments System Specialist
Maurice Gress                     Procurement Specialist
Andrew Hook                       Senior Payments System Specialist
Deane Jordan                      Lead Operations Officer (Task Team Leader from 11/2000)
Radia Benamghar-Lalouani          Procurement Analyst
Hovsep Melkonian                  Senior Disbursement Officer
Samia Msadek                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Paul Noumba Um                    Senior Telecommunications Specialist
- 42 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft, October 2000, undergoing revision (refer Section H of the PAD)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Financial Sector Strategy Note, June 28, 2000
- Payments Systems in Algeria: Review and Recommendations, April 13, 1998
- Terms of Reference: Study on Modemizing Payments Systems in Algeria, May 1999
- Aide Memoires of Bank missions
C. Other
- Payments Systems in Algeria - Current Status (BA, August 1998, updated November 2000)
- Information Systems: Status and Development Plan (BA, draft, 1998)
- Telecommunications and Computer Networks - Bank of Algeria: Assessment of User
Requirements (Consultant Report, December 1999)
- Overview and Assessment of BA Information Systems (Consultant Report, August 1999)
- Selected Legal and Regulatory Documents:
*     Law on Money and Credit (1990)
*     BA Regulation no.97-03 on interbank clearing
and settlement operations
*     BA Instruction no.73/94 on bank reserve requirements
*     BA Instruction no.63/94 on bank fund transfers
*     BA Instruction no.64/94 on bank cards
3     BA Instruction no. 05/95 on bank checks
*     BA Regulation no.92-03 on returned checks
BA Instruction no. 71/92 on returned checks
*     BA Instruction no.47/93 on payment incidents
*     BA Instruction no.62/94 on payment incidents
*     BA Regulation no.94-13 on bank operations
*     BA Instruction no.07/95 on bank operations
*     BA Instruction no. 79/95 on the operations of the interbank foreign exchange
market
*Including electronic files
- 43 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Revd
P064921        2001 DZ-BUDGET SYST. MODERN.                             23.70       0.00                              0.00      23.70        0.00       0.00
P067567        2001 ENERGY AND MINING TA LOAN (EMTAL)                    18.00      0.00                              0.00      18.00        0.00       0.00
P069947        2000 DZ-TEERP                                            83.48       0.00                              0.00      77.63       25.00       0.00
P070123        2000 DZ-Privatzation Assistance (LIL)                     5.00       0.00                              0.00       4.65        0.15       0.00
P070308        2000 DZ-Telecommunications and Postal Sector              9.00       0.00                              0.00       8.51        1.91       0.00
P042940        1998 DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                              150.00       0.00                              0.00     140.00      114.27       5.67
P043724        1997 RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                    89.00       0.00                              0.00      56.18       56.18      14.51
P004960        1996 IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                                 78.00       0.00                              0.00      66.10       37.43      3410
P004907        1995 DZ-HIGHWAYS VI                                     130.00       0.00                              0.00      44.06      41.06        1.07
P004974        1994 DZ-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                       110.00       0.00                             28.10      83.78       85.45      14.29
Total:      696.16        0.00                            28.10      502.61     361.45       69.64
- 44 -



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               ABCA                           0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
2000               AIP                            0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Aldaph                         6.52    1.70    0.00    5.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Helios                         2,67    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               SGA                            0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         9.19    4.88    0.00     5.59     2.67    2.24    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              AL                                4.00      0.00      0.70      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        4.00      0.00      0.70      0.00
- 45.-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
M. Erst   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                        6                     North   middle            -        - -:----
Algeria    Africa   Income       Development diamond"
1990
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        30.0       291      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlbs method, US$S                    1.550      2.060     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       46.6       599      2,513
Averwae annual growth, 1993.99
Population (1J                                          1.8        2.1       1.1
Labor force (%/                                         3.7        3.0       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recant estimate (latest ye  avrallabtl* 1993.99)                                 capita                       enrollment
Povertv (/ of ouafi/tion below national povertv line)    14
Urban population (X of totdl Population)                 60        56         43
Life expectancv at birth (years)                         71        68         69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                 35        45         33
Child malnutrition (/ of children undefr S               13         15        t5                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of poPuflation)       70        71         86
Illiteracy (% of popuLation aae 15+)                     33        36         16
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofvschoo/-ease ooPultion)   108        95        114               Algerta
Male,                                                 113       102        114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                102        68        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMI TRENDS
1979     19897      1998      199S                             -.
:  Economic ratios"
GDP (USS billions)                            33.3     54.9       47.4      47.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 42.4     29.0       27.7      27.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP             31.1     18.6       22.9      27.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    40,7     29.3       27.1      31.7
Gross national savinas/GDP                    3A.1     29.6       25.0      28.9
Current account balance/GDP                   .4,9     -19        -1.9       0.0      Domestic      
Interest pavments/GDP                          3.8      3.2        4.0       39                                    Investment
Total debtlGDP                                55.6     49.3       64.7      58.6      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    28.8     66.3       45.6      38.3
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..       63.2
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    265.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       10S9   1090-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.1       1.2      5.1        3.3       3.9         -      Algeris
GNP per capita                       0.0      -0.9      5.2        1,5       1,9             - - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of ooods and services        3.4       2.6      1.6        6.2       5.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1S98      1909      Growth of nveastment and GDP 4%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                   10.6     14.9       12.1      11.4
Industrv                                      50.5     41.6       47.3      50.7      s
Manufacturing                               10.2      11.0      10.6        9.6
Services                                      38.9     43.5       40.6      37.9      4            95   9r   97   98    9
Private consumption                           45.6     53.8       54.8      51.3    .10
General government consumption                13.7     16.9       18.1      17.0                     GD0     _     GOP
Imports of goods and services                 32.8     18.3       23.5      23.3
1979-B9  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    4.7      2.6       11.4       2.7     '*
Industry                                       2.7      0.8        3.9       4.8
Manufacturing                                5.7      -7.1       6.7        1.5
Services                                       4.0      2.0        3.9       2.8                    57    9a   a9
Private consumption                            2.6      2.6        2.4       2.9
General government consumption                 4.7      3.8        2.6       2.5      .                 l
Gross domestic investment                     -1.6     -1.7        3.3       2.7    -15
Imports of goods and services                 -2.8     -2.3        6.5       1.8                  Exports      *Imports
Gross national product                         3.1      1.2        5.9       3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-aroup aversae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-46-



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1996     1999      Inflatlon (%)
DomestUc pdces
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                             11.5      9.3       5.0       2.6
Implicit GDP deflator                       14.0    14.6       -4.1      10.9    20
Govenment f/nance                                                                 e
(% of GOP, includes cunrent grants)                                                      94    9      s    97       
Current revenue                                ..    28.9      27.8      29.8    -20.
Current budget balance                        ..      9.1       4.0       S.5           -G DP deflator  +CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -1.8       -3.9      -0.5    -
TRADE
i1979    1989      1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            *    9,561    10,14'   12,320    15000
Crude oil                                    ..   1,894      1,943    2,735
Condensate                                  ..   2,535       1,953    2,422     000
Manufactures                                ..    234          42        46
Total imports (cif)                           ..  10,289      8,630    8,960
Food                                        .. 2,925  2,657  2,609  5,000ill'9 9
Fuel and energy                             ..    127         110       127
Capital goods                                ..   2,335      2,907    3,155        o
Export price ihdex (1995=100)                  .     101         81       93            93  94  95  ri  97  98  os
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85         92       94                * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    119         88       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Currant account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             10,137   10,147    10,880   13,040      a
Importsofgoodsandservices                 10,911   11,336    10,850   11,520
Resource balance                            -774   -1,189        30    1,520      4
Net income                                -1,091   -1,893    -2,000   -2,290
Net current transfers                        226    2,053     1,060      790      o
Current account balance                   -1,639   -1,030      -910       20
Financing items (net)                      2,060     388       -180   -2,370
Changes in net reserves                     -421     642      1,090    2,350
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     2,916    1,104     7,121    4,668
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)              3.9      7.6      58.7      66.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      18,507   27,072    30,665   28.079
IBRD                                      227      960      1,676    1,540                   G: 186 A: 1,676
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Total debt service                         3,053    7,001     5,136    5,084                            _
IBRD                                        30     183        333      327         F: 9,054                    :2,713
IDA                                         0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            21       68        1 07
Official creditors                        710      107       -213      -106
Private creditors                        2,112     339    -1,328    -1,002
Foreign direct investment                   26      12          5      460
Portfolio equity                             0       0          2        0                            E: 15,025
World Bank program
Commitments                                188     839        150        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              47      204         56       74      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         7      112       208      199      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                   40       92       -152     -125
Interest payments                          22       70        124      126
Net transfers                               18      21       -276      -251
Development Economics
-47 -






MAP SECTION






IBEL 29992
M editer r a ne an    S ea
A LG ER IA/A'LG E RIE                                                                                                                                                                                    2
-                  ~~~~42               S',~        C        3 ~                                            4              orrniB        2
~~f~4 r~ci~tt$-   1>5G  11 0                                                  .~  ~-   c>/2
2~~~       Are ~~~~~~~L                                               rrE~~~) 
27                                                                                                     .    -  (N-tNt,...~~~~3 ..
Or                                                                                                                         c                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~         ~~~*.- ~~~~~~~   ,t4                                                                                         *frLr~~~~~~1                                       i
T. 0~~~~~~~~~~,d.  Tl--                                                     17 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~'.4
4  13<                PAN                  20         \.-.,                                                    'Dw\roI                                        7                                              J
722    .&
45                                                                   3  
/1'        ELBoyco  ~~~~~~~~~~~~L~k.tN,~'
I)                          /                 r~~~~p~~L~~%                                           -,,.,A,                                                                EMY
WILAYA NAMES                                                            PAEuNTONLRrD OWS Ar.Dl V LAArF                                                                                                                   J E~"   
NOMS DES W/LAYATE                                                           ROPAVED NAT ONA ROAS                                                                                                       tC,ERE,  3AM
1 ADRAR                32 EL BAYADH              3D OUARGLA                                   PAVED WI AYA ROADS                                 W ArA 'LANSrIIDUTEE SV
'44 AIN DEFLA            39 EL OUVED               4 0UM EL BOUAOHL                             ROUTES DECONDA'RES                                A,DL'-E5 DES WiL'AYA'L                                         [ Is   A-cr f&Mops
46 A N TEMSOUCHIENT      36 EL TARF               48 RELIZANE                                   RAILROADS                                  *      NAT CNAL CAPITAL                                            G- 
16 ALGOLEES             A7 GHARDAIA               20 DA DA                                      VOLES FERREES                                     sRTL                                                              rsk,f 
23 ANNABA                24 GOLEMA                1 9 SETIF                                                                                                                                                ->54                    3
5 BADI`A              33 1LLIZ                  22 SIDI BEL ABBES                                                                                                                                                                30 ERS-  5AD CADP~~'~ 
B BECHAR         ~~~1 8JIJLUR              2  SKIKDA                                     AEROPORT5                                         ,,LTESD 'ES Wr,LATATL
6 BELAIA                40 KHENECHELA            41 TOUK AHEAD                                                                                                                                       ,,,7L 
7 TISKRA          3 E~~~~~AGHOLAT         11TAMATIGHASSET                                                                                  LITERATICA IOTA, ET.NAR ES                                                            33.' ~ '
9 BLIDA                 29MASCARA                T2 TEBESSA                                                                                      r,IfE/L>  N s&'rA,T;INA LV 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
34 BORL DJ05O AEPERID.    26 MEDEA                14 TIARET
10 BOU BA               43 MILA                   37 TIEDS
35 BCUMEESES             27 MOSTAGANEM            42 TPAZAy
2 CHEEF                 28 MS LA                 38 TS SEMSL T                                                                               T"r'.'r E ',r.                                                         5 >
25 CONSTANTINE           45 NAAMA                 13 R)IO OrUrOD                           5          35         'SI'NI
17 SLEEPA         ST~~~3  ORANS             13 TLEMCTN                                             KILOMETERS*rrr,r'                                            r .s        . IL
r'EMBEP LII-8



