                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000200




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (Loan No: 7069-AL)

                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                      TO THE

               PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                      FOR A

    FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                  March 19, 2007




Social and Economic Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange rate effective March 19, 2007)

                 Currency Unit = DZD Algerian Dinar
                         DZD 1.00 = US$ 0.010
                         Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.32
                         US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.76

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BA       Bank of Algeria
BIS      Bank of International Settlements
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCP      Centrale des Chèques Postaux
CPSS     Committee for Payment and Settlement Systems
CQ       Consultants Qualifications
DPS      Direct Participants System
EIU      Economic Intelligence Unit
EU       European Union
FARAH    Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FMPM     Financial Management Procedures Manual
GPN      General Procurement Notice
GoA      Government of Algeria
HVSS     High Value Sub-System
IBPS     Interbank Payments System
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IS       International Shopping
LAN      Local Area Network
LVSS     Low Value Sub-System
MPT      Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NS       National Shopping
PCA      Project Capacity Assessment
PFS      Project Financial Statement
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PMR      Project Management Report
PMU      Project Management Unit
RTGS     Real Time Gross Settlement System
SAPS     Settlement Account Processing System
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
SRFP     Standard Request for Proposals

SWIFT           Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
WAN             Wide Area Network




        Vice President: Daniela Gressani

      Country Director: Theodore O. Ahlers

       Sector Manager: Zoubida Allaoua

   Project Team Leader: Didier Debals
     ICR Team Leader: Catherine Burtonboy

                                                        Algeria
   FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                                   CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 17
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 23

 Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 24
 Annex 2: Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 26
 Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 28
 Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 29
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 42
 Annex 10.A: Project Risk Assessment & their mitigation........................................................ 43
 Annex 10.B : Project Indicators............................................................................................... 46
 Annex 10.C: Project Design Summary ­ Revised Intermediary Performance Indicators ........ 49
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    FINANCIAL SYSTEM
                                                                    INFRASTRUCTURE
Country:                Algeria               Project Name:
                                                                    MODERNIZATION
                                                                    PROJECT
Project ID:             P054217               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-70690
ICR Date:               03/19/2007            ICR Type:             Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                    PEOPLE'S
                                                                    DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    ALGERIA
Original Total
                        USD 16.5M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 3.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Banque d Algerie
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/12/1999    Effectiveness:       09/03/2002         09/03/2002
Appraisal:             03/15/1999    Restructuring(s):                       08/03/2005
Approval:              07/26/2001    Mid-term Review:                        12/01/2004
                                     Closing:             06/30/2005         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                           5                  5
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement             50                 50
Telecommunications                                               45                 45


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other financial and private sector development                  Primary          Primary
Standards and financial reporting                              Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Theodore O. Ahlers                 Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:           Zoubida Allaoua                    Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:      Didier Debals                      Deane N. Jordan
ICR Team Leader:          Didier Debals
ICR Primary Author:       Catherine H. Burtonboy



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was:

  ·      To put in place a more efficient enabling infrastructure for basic financial
services, primarily by modernizing the inter-bank payments system for large-value
transactions, the cornerstone of payments system development -and by developing norms
and standards for future low-value payments systems, including an electronic clearing
house.



                                               ii

  ·      To further improve the enabling infrastructure by modernizing the information
and knowledge management systems of the Bank of Algeria.

  As a necessary complement and support to the payments and information systems, to
provide supporting telecommunications infrastructure to improve the communications
links between and among offices of the Bank of Algeria and the headquarters of key
financial institutions and banks.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project development objective as laid out in the Loan Agreement remained unchanged
after the formal restructuring.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values          Target Years
                A well-functioning RTGS system, including associated regulatory systems, and
Indicator 1 :   the adoption of norms, standards and regulations for future low value payments
                systems.

                                          Well-functioning
                                          RTGS,                              Improved quality of
                                                                             analysis, increased
Value                                     Improved quality                   knowledge
quantitative or Not in place.             of BA's policy                     management
Qualitative)                              analysis,
                                          knowledge                          reached in part due

                                          management,                        to the faster and

                                          services                           more reliable data
                                                                             accessible.
Date achieved 05/01/2001                  06/30/2006                         11/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Well-functioning telecommunications links serving the payments systems, BA
Indicator 2 :   information systems and other communication among financial sector
                participants.
                                          Telecoms
                                          infrastructure
                                          enables the

Value                                     achievement of of                  Telecom Network
quantitative or Telecoms not in place.    the performance                    in place and
Qualitative)                              indicators on
                                          payments systems                   functionning

                                          and BA
                                          informations
                                          systems.
Date achieved 05/01/2001                  06/30/2005                         06/06/2006


                                               iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value            Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised     Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Growth in the utilization of the RTGS system and in the amount of large-value
               payments processed by the system.
                                                                           Large-value
                                          Rise to 70 % of the              payments processed
                                          total value of all               reach 90% of the

Value                                     transactions within              total value of all

(quantitative  RTGS not in place          the banking                      transactions and the

or Qualitative)                           system within 6                  number of large
                                          months of system                 value checks has
                                          cut-over, and to 80              been reduced by
                                          % after one year                 70%.

Date achieved 05/01/2001                  06/30/2006                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP              Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     09/28/2001         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/19/2001         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     05/28/2002         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     11/27/2002         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.17
  5     04/15/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.17
  6     08/04/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.17
  7     12/18/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.17
  8     06/29/2004         Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    0.22
  9     12/20/2004         Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    0.44
  10    04/26/2005         Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    0.61
  11    06/03/2005         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    1.39
  12    12/16/2005         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    1.91
  13    06/23/2006         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    2.93




                                               iv

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
  08/03/2005                S      S          1.39




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: In the late 1990's, Algeria's financial sector was
heavily burdened by the legacy of administrative economic management that was geared
towards the needs of the public enterprise sector.

    · The financial system remained broadly under developed.
    · The banking system was still oligopolistic and nearly entirely state-owned. It
       mainly consisted of six public sector banks acting as passive distributors of
       administered credits to state enterprises in a centrally managed economy. In spite
       of a substantial government buyback of non-performing loans to state enterprises
       since 1993 and a subsequent recapitalization of the public sector banks since
       1996, which was partly supported by a World Bank adjustment operation, the
       financial condition of state-owned banks required strengthening. Overall, the state
       banks were undercapitalized, and, according to government estimates, non-
       performing loans reach DZD 200 billion, or 6% of GDP.
    · In addition to state-owned commercial banks, there were nine small, private
       foreign and domestic merchant banks.
    · The postal system was the largest provider of basic retail bank services, with a
       network about equal in size to that of the commercial banks' entire national
       network.
    · Cash remained the predominant payment instrument and accounted for about half
       of the money supply. The size of the banking system which remained low relative
       to the level of economic activity had declined since 1993. By the end of 1997 it
       had fallen from 76% to 64%. This was to a large extent attributed to the
       inefficiency of banking institutions.
    · A defining event was the passage of the Law on Money and Credit in 1990, which
       granted central bank autonomy, introduced transparent rules in treasury and
       central bank relations, and stipulated non-discriminatory commercial bank
       financing of public and private enterprises. Financial sector reform gained further
       momentum in 1994 in the context of an IMF-supported reform program.

The performance of bank payments services required substantial improvement in order to
strengthen the attractiveness of bank deposits and bank financial intermediation. In the
development program approved by the National Assembly in August 1997, the
Government acknowledged the limited progress achieved in the reform of the financial
sector and adopted a new strategy and program to:

  (i)  promote increased private participation in the banking sector through the
       introduction of new private banks and private minority participation in the capital
       of existing state-owned banks;
  (ii) pursue a more liberal and pragmatic policy on foreign entry in all segments of the
       financial sector;


                                             1

 (iii) promote the development of the securities market and other non-bank financial
        instruments; and
 (iv) pursue the organizational restructuring of the state-owned banks.

In line with government policy, bilateral financial and technical assistance as well as
Japanese PHRD funds were secured to help strengthen the foundation of the securities
market, namely the institutional development of the Securities Commission (COSOB)
including the basic elements of a securities market regulatory framework, the
introduction of a secondary market for government securities, and the initial development
phases of the stock exchange.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Algeria, No. R96-15 [Rev.], dated February 27, 1996. It
supported the CAS objectives by improving the financial system infrastructure that was
critically important for a well-functioning financial system within a private sector-led
economy. The project was also an integral part of the strategy and plan of the government
and the Bank of Algeria to help further integrate Algeria into the global financial
architecture.

The Government had requested the Bank to assist in the development of the project in
order to benefit from the Bank's international expertise on highly technical issues related
to the Project. BA and the commercial banks had little exposure to the policy, legal and
functional design issues associated with modem electronic payment systems.

In addition, this project was an opportunity for the Bank to "jump start" a very difficult
but crucial dialogue with the GoA on the Financial Sector and its much needed reforms.

Borrower Commitment: The Government of Algeria has been fully committed to
supporting the sector's role in economic and private sector growth. The Governor of
BA has championed the project from its inception and all stakeholders involved showed
their commitment by participating not only in the discussions but in the steps taken to
overcome challenges presented by the implementation of the project. In addition, the
Project has benefited from essential collaboration with the Ministry of Post and Telecoms
(MPT) in the preparation of the telecom and data transmission component, which
provided critical logistical support for international telecommunications consultants in
their assessment of the facilities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Project Development Objectives: The project development objective was to put in place
a more efficient enabling infrastructure for basic financial services, primarily by
modernizing the inter-bank payments system for large-value transactions - the
cornerstone of payments system development ­ developing norms and standards for
future low-value payments systems, including an electronic clearing house. To further
improve the enabling infrastructure, the Project modernized the information and



                                            2

knowledge management systems of the Bank of Algeria (viz., the Central Bank of
Algeria). As a necessary complement and support to the payments and information
systems, the Project also provided supporting telecommunications infrastructure to
improve the communications links between and among the offices of the Bank of Algeria
and the headquarters of key financial institutions and banks. The telecommunications
network helped to facilitate efficient interconnections and end-to-end processing for both
inter-bank and intra-bank payment systems and networks.

Key performance indicators: The key performance indicator for the achievement of the
project development objective was the growth in utilization of the Real Time Gross
Settlement System (RTGS) and in the amount of large-value payments processed by the
system. As evidence of strong performance, the large-value payments processed by the
RTGS system, on a daily basis, was expected to rise within 6 months of system cut-over
to 70% of the total value of all transactions within the banking system, and, within one
year after system cut-over, to 80%.
A second indicator was a demonstrable reduction in the use of large-value checks
following system cut-over.

Other important qualitative indicators expected to be achieved by the modernization of
BA's information and knowledge management systems, were: a) improved quality of the
central bank's policy analyses and of its services to the financial sector and the banking
system; b) improved efficiency in the conduct of monetary policy; and c) the promotion
and dissemination of knowledge on payments system activity.

The main indicators for the achievement of the project deliverables and outputs were as
follows:

(i)     Modernization of the Payments System: a) Large-value transactions are settled in
real time with intra-day finality (e.g., when funds are available, 95% of transactions are
settled in less than 15 seconds and 100% in less than one minute; and, less than 5% of
transactions need to be queued for settlement at any time); b) The incidence of settlement
delays exceeding one day are virtually eliminated within one year of system cut-over; c)
RTGS system availability is at least 90% within one year of system cut-over, and 98%
within two years of system cut-over; and d) Norms and standards for low-value payment
systems are completed and published by BA by December 31, 2002.

(ii)    Development of Bank of Algeria's Information Systems: Improved quality and
timeliness of the central bank's financial and economic statistics and publications.

(iii)   Supporting        Telecommunications         Infrastructure:      Well-functioning
telecommunications links serving the large-value RTGS payment system, BA
information systems and other communications among financial sector participants,
which enable the achievement of the performance indicators given above for the payment
systems and BA information systems.




                                             3

Summary table

PDO                               Outcome Indicators                  Output Indicators
1. Modernization of the Payments  1a. Growth in utilization of the    1a. Large value payments reach
System                            RTGS and the amount of large        90% of the total value of all
                                  value payments processed in the     transaction within the banking
                                  system.                             system.
                                  1b. Increase in the number of       1b. A 70% reduction in the use of
                                  large-value transactions settled    large value checks
                                  with intra-day finality
2. Norms, Standards and           2. Improved transparency and        2. Norms and Standards
regulations for future low value  harmonization in the processing     completed and published
payments systems                  of the low value transactions.

3. Improvement of BA's            3. Improved quality and             3a. Achieved improvement in the
information system                timeliness of BA's financial and    quality of BA's policy analysis,
                                  economic statistics and             knowledge management, services
                                  publications                        to the financial sector, and
                                                                      monetary policy.
                                                                      3b. Improved quality of the data
4. Performing Telecom             4. Telecommunications               4. Inter-bank private network of
Infrastructure                    infrastructure in place allow for a BA operational, links installed by
                                  speedy, efficient and transparent   Algeria Telecom.
                                  processing of the payments



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Project development objective as laid out in the Loan Agreement remained unchanged
after the formal restructuring in August 2005. The Key indicators were not modified.
However, new intermediate indicators were identified and included in the action plan for
the restructuring presented to the Board for non-objection (see 1.6 and Annex 10C).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Primary Target Group:

    · The Bank of Algeria and commercial banks. The improved payments systems,
         both large-value and low-value, will improve the quality of payment services to
         further reduce float, speed up the circulation of funds, and increase efficiency of
         funds transmission, while providing convenience and service to users. They will
         also provide appropriate tools to both the central bank and participating
         commercial banks to facilitate enhanced cash management and avoid credit and
         liquidity risk.

Other Beneficiaries:

    · Potential investors and foreign banks. The project was intended to strengthen the
         attractiveness of the Algerian financial system to potential investors and foreign


                                                   4

        banks by enabling payments services in a manner that demonstrably balances
        efficiency, cost and risk.

     · Private sector. The project envisioned increased private sector development and
        trade, by enabling the development of efficient, reliable, secure means of
        payments for goods and services.

     · Different market sectors. The project was expected to help satisfy the needs of the
        different market sectors, consumer and retail sectors, industrial and commercial
        sectors, financial markets sector, government sector and the foreign trade sector -
        for secure, reliable, convenient, cost effective and easy-to-use bank payment
        services.

     · Users of bank services. The ultimate beneficiaries of payments system
        modernization would be the actual and prospective users of bank services,
        including households, with the benefit also of increasing the level of deposits and
        financial resources available to the commercial banks.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of four components as follows:

Component 1. Payments Systems Modernization (US$ 4.80 million)

The payments systems component included the following sub-components:

(i) Real Time Gross Settlements (RTGS) applications system development, including
associated support for installation and     testing, operational and recurrent costs for the
first year's operations, and staff training;

(ii) Computer network equipment and operating software, including computer servers and
workstations;

(iii) Technical assistance and training, including specialized consultant services in: (a)
RTGS systems and regulation; (b) low value payment systems and electronic clearing; (c)
payment systems management including regulations and security (approximately 15 staff
months of consultant services in total);

(iv) Initial subscription to the Society for Worldwide Inter-bank Financial
Telecommunication (SWIFT) service, if applicable; and

(v) Studies to identify appropriate participant fees, interface standards and processing
rules for the clearing and settlement of both large value and retail banking activity
payments.




                                              5

BA would also carry out a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to
determine an appropriate user fee structure for recovering a reasonable proportion of the
investment and operating costs of the overall payments system and of the
telecommunications infrastructure, described below. Towards this objective, the study
would define the system's expected operating costs, expected usage volumes by major
clients, and proposed user fee structures.

Component 2: Bank of Algeria Information Systems (US$ 4.50 million)

The information systems component for the Bank of Algeria included the following sub-
components:

(i) Technical supporting infrastructure for the RTGS system, including local networks
and workstations, servers and software;

(ii) Computer hardware and software (which were not included under the
telecommunications infrastructure component described below) for BA's internal
information systems (e.g., workstations and access terminals) at its offices in Algiers; and

(iii) Technical assistance and training for the RTGS system and BA's information
systems (about nine staff months of consultant services).

Component 3: Supporting Telecommunications Infrastructure (US$ 8.10 million)

This component included the following activities:

(i) A high capacity, secure, telecommunications optical ring network in Algiers, linking
BA's offices in Algiers, with the headquarters offices of commercial banks in Algiers,
and with BA's 47 regional offices around the country;

(ii) Telecommunications hardware and software (which were not included under the
information systems component) for BA's internal and external telecommunications and
information systems networks (e.g., WAN and LAN networks and interfaces, routers,
encoding devices and connections) in order to process inter-bank payment transactions,
BA's internal information data, and external inter-bank data; and

(iii) Technical assistance and training for telecommunications engineering, security audits,
technical specifications, and operations (approximately one staff year of consultant
services).

Component 4: Project Management Support (US$ 0.60 million)

This component included technical assistance and training, and a small amount of
equipment, to strengthen the capabilities of the Project Management Unit (Comité
Technique) to implement the project.




                                               6

1.6 Revised Components

There were no changes in the project's design and implementation arrangements, but at
the restructuring of the project approved by the Board in August 2005, the Bank of
Algeria Information Systems component (Component 2) was dropped from the project
as BA decided to fund this component from its own resources.

The project restructuring was decided after the mid-term review. The mid-term review
of the project resulted in a downgrading of the implementation process to
"unsatisfactory" due to more than 2 years delay. The team worked on a restructuring
proposal with the Central Bank of Algeria in order to win back some of the delays and
ensure that the major components could be completed and the DO substantially
achieved within an abbreviated time frame. It was decided that the restructuring plan
should be formalized as soon as a detailed action plan including selected indicators as
milestones (i.e. Strategic Development plan for information system and the bid
evaluation for telecom component) could be agreed upon with BA.

The partial loan cancellation and the project extension were conditional to BA meeting
the milestones listed above.

Partial Loan cancellation: An amount of $11.3 million (68.5% of the original loan
amount of $16.5 million), was cancelled from the loan. This was due to an substantial
cost savings derived from: (a) the choice of a much cheaper and more performing
technology for the telecom component {Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexing
(CWDM) instead of Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)} and (b) the decision of the
BA to undertake the modernization of the information system using its own funds. The
revised loan amount thus became US$5.2 million.

      Project component costs            At appraisal          After restructuring and loan
  (including counterpart funding)                                      cancellation
 Component 1                       $4.8 M                    $ 2.8 M
 Component 2                       $4.5 M                    $ 3.5 M
 Component 3                       $8.1 M                    $2.0 M
 Component 4                       $0.6 M                    $0.2 M
 Total:                            $18.0 M                   $8.5 M

Extension of the Closing Date: The closing date of the project was extended by one year,
from June 30, 2005 to June 30, 2006 due to procurement delays. The extension allowed
the Algerian authorities to complete the implementation of the project's activities and
fulfill the development objectives.

1.7 Other significant changes

Other than those listed above, there were no significant changes to the project.




                                            7

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis: The project design and preparation took into
account lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects in Algeria and other
countries. Likewise, the design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures were
adopted to mitigate them. Nevertheless, the preparation was extremely laborious because
from 1998 to 2002 Algeria was going through a difficult post-conflict situation. Because
of the prevailing tense atmosphere and fragile security situation, Bank staffs were not
able to spend much time in the country during the preparation stage of the project.

In addition, the following factors contributed to delay the project preparation:
    · Country's slow transition from a controlled economy to a market economy, and
        the lack of reform in the financial sector;
    · Lack of specialized and/or well trained staff on the Algerian side
    · Differences of opinion between the BA and the MOF; and
    · Changes in the specifications of project requirements by the BA.

Quality at entry: The project was rated satisfactory at QE review. This project was and
remains relevant and essential to the development of Algeria's banking system. The
project was quite complex as it involved rapidly changing technologies that did not exist
in Algeria at the time and evolved faster than the project could be implemented.

Assessment of Risks: As documented in Annex 10, the risks component as well as their
mitigation was an important element of the project design. At the design stage, the risks
identified centered mainly on the lack of specialized capacity, potential lack of
commitment and cooperation between the different stakeholders and potential
deterioration of the economic, political and social environment. With hindsight, the ICR
team feels that the project risks were accurately identified. The delays experienced in the
project were not linked to a lack of evaluation of the potential risks, but rather to the
completely unpredictable explosion in the development of the type of technologies used
in the project and to the normal challenges of implementing a project in a country that is
coming out of a long conflict.

Adequacy of Government's commitment and participatory processes: A
participatory approach was adopted from the outset. The BA, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the main financial institutions of Algeria, and the MPT were actively involved in
all aspects of project design.     This continuous involvement and dialogue contributed
without a doubt to the final positive outcome of the project. It allowed the project team to
maintain an ongoing link between the stakeholders who often had diverging views. This
proved essential in seeing the project finally "take off" and succeed. The project
management structure reflects the continuing involvement of all affected parties

2.2 Implementation

By 2004, the project implementation was approximately two years behind schedule and,


                                              8

accordingly, it was downgraded and rated unsatisfactory on implementation progress
from June 2004 to June 2005. The following were the factors which caused delay in the
project implementation:

(i) Initial delays in the signing of the Protocol between the Bank of Algeria and Algeria
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications: The project was approved by the Bank's
Executive Directors on July 26, 2001. Loan signing was delayed at the request of the
Algerian authorities who needed more time to complete their normal internal processing
steps, but it was signed on January 4, 2002. After two extensions (the first one to July 3,
2002 and the second one to September 3, 2002), the project finally became effective on
September 3, 2002. These extensions were granted mainly to give the BA additional time
to enter into a "Protocol" with the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) in
order to legally define their respective obligations and responsibilities under the
telecommunications infrastructure component of the project.       Unfortunately, once the
"Protocol" was signed, it became void because important changes had occurred in the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications; Algeria Telecom was created as an
independent subsidiary of MPT. This new entity was the new counterpart for BA,
replacing the MPT. The protocol as such was no longer valid and a revised version
needed to be signed between BA and Algeria Telecom.

At the time, Algeria Telecom was a new private enterprise in the midst of a major
restructuring and did not have this project at the top of its agenda. Additional delay
stemmed from the need to sign a revised convention, between BA and Algerie Telecom
(AT), to reflect a) the new structure and b) the technological improvements that did not
exist in Algeria at the time and that Algeria Telecom was not certain to be able to deliver.

(ii) Improvements in technology in the telecom sector.     Improvements in technology in
the telecom sector took place during the period spanning between loan approval and
project effectiveness. At the Bank's suggestion, BA and AT revisited the original
technology and adopted more efficient and less expensive technology, leading to major
cost savings (about $4.3 million).

(iii) Frequent change of Project Director: During implementation the Project Director
changed three times, leading to disruption in implementation as each new director needed
time to familiarize himself with the project. This issue was resolved in November 2004
with the arrival of the new final project Director whose dedication and sense of
accountability gave the project the needed momentum to move forward successfully.

(iv) Procurement Delays: In addition to the delays listed above, procurement delays also
took place due to the following:

· New technology in the IT market: the technical assumptions factored initially in the
    project for the information system component were replaced by more efficient and
    cheaper technology solutions; this caused a change in the technical specifications of
    the bidding document which delayed its issuance;




                                              9

· Issuance of customized bidding documents for RTGS and Telecom contracts: The
     Telecom bidding document was prepared based on the Bank Standard Bidding
     Document however these documents did not correspond exactly to the situation at
     hand and required customizing to fulfill the project needs.      This required Bank
     clearances before finalizing the customized bidding document which took more time
     than anyone could have anticipated;
· Insufficient specialized procurement capacity in BA and Algeria Telecom: Algeria
     Telecom which was newly established as a private entity had (i) an institutional
     reorganization and (ii) limited experience with the newly proposed technology;
· Lack of available specialized French speaking procurement staff on both sides:
     Preparing complex customized bidding document and reviewing the offers received
     required an expertise that was lacking in AT at that time. The Bank did not have
     enough francophone procurement experts with experience in Telecom and RTGS to
     provide AT promptly with the required support.

Slow Disbursements: The delays due to the two extensions for loan signing and
substantial delays in procurement activities led to a very low disbursement rate. The
accumulated disbursement lag (26 months) was considerable and resulted in downgrading
implementation progress to "unsatisfactory". It is however important to note following
the restructuring of the project and the $11.3 million loan cancellation, that the
disbursement targets set at project design were no longer relevant. The disbursement
rates after restructuring and based on the new loan amount were actually satisfactory.

Project Restructuring: Based on the recommendations of the MTR, the Bank's mid-term
review conducted in December 2004 worked out a restructuring proposal with the BA in
order to help compensate for some of the delays and ensure that the major components
could be completed and the development objective substantially achieved within an
abbreviated time frame. The project restructuring (1 year extension, partial loan
cancellation and dropping of 1 component), was subject to BA and AT reaching an
agreement and signing the "Protocole". This took place before the initial closing date
(06/30/05) and the restructuring of the project was approved by the Board in August 2005.
It entailed:

(i) Dropping the information systems component of the project to reflect the decision
of the BA to finance it out of its own funds. This change was not expected to affect the
achievement of the project development objectives, but would allow the authorities to
meet them within a simplified structure and at a lower cost.

(ii) A cancellation of US$11.3 million of the loan. This amount represented the cost of
the information systems component and cost savings derived from improvements in
technology and other factors. This partial cancellation took place on June 16, 2005
following the authorities' request. The revised loan amount was therefore US$5.2
million.

(iii) A modification of the project intermediate performance indicators for project outputs
to better reflect the actual progress in project implementation as well as the



                                             10

improvements in technology. The BA had agreed to maintain intermediate performance
indicators for its Information Systems, reflecting both its commitment to achieve the
project's development objectives and its willingness to maintain close dialogue with the
Bank during its implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The project was to be carried out by the BA in accordance with a detailed
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) that included target dates of actions to be taken and
monitorable performance indicators. The BA was expected to furnish the Bank with
detailed quarterly reports summarizing progress in implementation and procurement and
in the achievement of the performance indicators. The Bank planned to carry out at least
seven supervision missions during project implementation, including a Mid-Term Review,
carried out in December 31, 2003.

M&E implementation. Significant efforts were undertaken during supervision to: (a)
make sure that data collection mechanisms were put in place; and (b) gather the relevant
information as the project began to yield results. Stakeholders were kept focused on the
Key Performance Indicator: "Growth in the utilization of the RTGS system and the
amount of large-value payments processed in the system".

M&E utilization. The M&E indicators were instrumental to decision-making, in
particular when the project was restructured. The initial RTGS-related indicators were
retained at MTR, as they reflected both the centrality of this component to the project and
the focus on ensuring that improvements to financial flows would be measured. In the
same vein, the indicators related to the Telecoms component were essential in managing
other implementation risks of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

From its onset, this project did not present any potential safeguard or fiduciary
compliance issue. The implementation process took place without any significant
deviations or request for waivers from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies and
procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Post-completion Operation and Sustainability: The new automated payment system is
in place and sustainable. It has already become a vital component of the Algerian
financial sector infrastructure and is being used extensively by the BA, commercial banks,
and customers of the commercial banks.

    · The BA has ensured arrangements for the project's future operation regarding
        effective operation and maintenance with the RTGS and infrastructure providers.
    · All required backups for the RTGS and the telecom infrastructure are in place.




                                             11

    · Monitoring of the system is functioning with appropriate training provided to the
        staff.
    · BA has already transformed the PMU into the Directorate of Payment Systems and
        the following three sub-directorates have been created under this Directorate: (i)
        Operations; (ii) Technical Support; and (iii) Supervision of the Payment System. All
        nine members of PMU have been absorbed under this directorate.
    · BA will finance all requirements in terms of training and recruitment of additional
        staff in order to ensure that the system performs on a continual and regular basis.

(b) List of performance indicators.

The following set of monitoring and evaluation indicators have been developed and they
will be used as part of the BA's regular payment systems operations:

    · Percentage of inter-bank transactions captured under RTGS compared to overall
        transactions
    · Percentage of uptime of the RTGS (the number of hours in a day the system is
        functioning)
    · Monitoring of the system
    · Supervision of liquidity management of participant banks in real time
    · Ability to take charge of external systems (such as clearing house, securities
        settlement, etc.)

(c) Follow-up by the Bank.

This project was an investment project with a fairly narrow focus and as such does not
call for a follow-up. However the team is discussing the possibilities of other related TA
with the GoA.

(f) Priority and optimum timing of any future impact evaluation.

A joint Bank/IMF mission on Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) will be
conducted in Algeria during the first semester of 2007. The payment system will be part
of the overall FSAP in order to assess the progress made in this area. This mission will
coincide with the first anniversary of the RTGS implementation and will be the perfect
opportunity to evaluate the impact and pay-offs of the project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives

A modernization of the payments system based on modern information systems and
reliable telecommunications facilities is central to the upgrading of the financial sector.
Given the reforms undertaken by the GoA, the project was timely and appropriate. The



                                              12

weak operational performance of the Algerian banking system (core provider of payment
services) represented a major impediment to savings mobilization and the efficient
settlement of basic business transactions. It was the main rationale for the project's
objective to modernize the Central Bank monetary policy and the cash management
throughout the banking system. This is why the project was closely linked to the
establishment of an electronic Clearing House (i.e. in defining the norms of the payment
instruments). The achievement of the project objectives would be a major improvement
in monitoring the banking liquidity, a major issue in Algeria. In addition, a modern
payments infrastructure would lay the foundations to develop a nascent financial market,
essential to attract new private foreign banks to Algeria.

As mentioned in Section 1.1, the project was consistent with the Bank's CAS for Algeria.

Relevance of the design

The design of the project at entry was appropriate: the RTGS, BA information systems
and Telecom infrastructure, were all the components necessary to build a modern
payment infrastructure in Algeria. For instance, to complement the project's support of
the payments system development, the project included support to modernize BA's
information systems and computer networks. With hindsight, the design of the project
could have included specific TA to the public banks in order to upgrade their information
system.

Relevance of the implementation

Optimally, the implementation sequence should have taken place with a "building
blocks" approach: infrastructure first, then RTGS, and finally electronic clearing house.
This would have ensured the testing of the infrastructure (from a security stand point)
before the implementation of the software (RTGS and electronic clearing house). The
actual implementation faced unexpected delays in implementing the Telecom
infrastructure. This forced all components to be implemented at the same time. This
created a challenge for the WB Team, the PIU and all the other stakeholders to meet the
deadlines. Nevertheless, RTGS was launched in February 2006 with only a 4 months
delay due to the extension of the pilot phase at the request of the Central Bank.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The PDOs were met, the targets were more than reached, within an
implementation time frame much shorter than initially planned and this at a much lower
cost than forecasted.

    1. RTGS

Within nine months of its inauguration, RTGS has already captured 90% of inter bank
transactions, which is much higher than the originally envisioned 70%. It is estimated
that between February and October 2006, an average 800 payment operations were
performed per day under RTGS, representing an average daily amount of 670 billion



                                             13

Dinars. RTGS enabled settlement of transactions made on other financial markets such as
the stock market and money market.

       · The RTGS was launched in February 2006 and is now fully operational with
           no significant operational failure so far.
       · Swifter funds transfers between banks in order to manage their settlement
           positions with other banks or with the BA, have significantly improved the
           management of the liquidity and reserves while reducing systemic risks.
       · Real time information on the status of accounts allowing optimization of the
           Treasury and more efficient management of fund flows is enabling
           commercial banks to invest surplus idle cash in monetary and financial
           markets.
       · The rapid processing of large commercial payments between businesses,
           which is of critical importance to the promotion of trade and economic
           development has been achieved with a reduction in delays from about 5-15
           days to one day and has created a positive impression about commercial
           banks from the clients' perspective.
       · In addition, the following are benefits highlighted by BA during the
           workshop: The implementation of RTGS has boosted the efficiency of the
           monetary policy and the monitoring of the banking liquidity in:

               Securing management of BA's cash management account and the
               optimization of its Treasury.
               Giving transparency of all financial and fiduciary transactions of
               commercial banks with BA in real time.
               Allowing full-proof traceability of all transactions and automated
               reception of account statements enabling efficient reconciliation of
               accounts.

    2. Bank of Algeria information systems

All the systems necessary to a proper functioning of RTGS are in place allowing an
effective process of all the functionalities of RTGS:

       The terms of references needed to implement the "Information system
       improvement Strategy" were completed on time and the vendor was selected as
       planned.
       Improvement of debt management.
       Improvement of the reconciliation process and reduced/eliminated discrepancies.
       Adoption of the International Accounting Standards (IAS).

    3. Telecom Infrastructure

The Telecommunications Development Component of the project provides the
technological backbone of high speed telecommunications links necessary for the
modernization    of   the    payments     systems.  In addition, it  is   providing the



                                              14

telecommunications capacity necessary to host RTGS. The private network of bank of
Algeria is now in place and banks are ready to switch from SWIFT network to BA's
private network. BA is now able to communicate with its regional offices and with
commercial banks quickly and safely. The remaining key challenge going forward is the
adequacy of the security policy for the private network.

The government has introduced new systems to modernize the payments system for low
value transactions, including the establishment of an electronic clearing house. The
government carried out this task in partnership with individual Algerian commercial
banks and the Central Bank. The development of this independent but very much related
component with close links to the project and RTGS has started accommodating the net
settlement of batches of low value transactions and the cash settlement of securities
transactions on the stock exchange.

To this effect, with the technical assistance of the project, BA has developed norms,
standards and regulations applicable to all low-value payments systems that are in
accordance with international standards and ensure that low-value systems can interface
with and be integrated into the RTGS system. The clearing house for small payments
system has started functioning for checks in May 2006, credit transfers in September
2006, and debit cards in October 2006. The remaining payment instruments will be
progressively introduced by the end of 2006.
By the end of 2006, the overall payment system is expected to be fully operational. Banks
will be the major beneficiaries of this payment system modernization as their information
systems will be upgraded and modernized.

3.3 Efficiency

There is not actual rate of return that can be calculated for this type of project, but from a
cost effectiveness perspective, this project is a major achievement due to the choice of a
technology more efficient and cheaper than expected at the onset of the project. In
addition, a portion of the costs of the project are expected to be recovered through user
fees. The BA has already finalized the formula for a cost recovery mechanism and a fee
structure consistent with international best practice, to be charged from the participating
institutions. The BA is waiting for the approval of its Governor to initiate the user fee.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the explanations given in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated
satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and Social Development: As such, the project does not have a direct impact on
poverty reduction, social development or gender. However the increased access to


                                             15

finance and financial services that are being offered by the commercial banks to the
public should have a lasting positive impact on poverty reduction and social development.
Gender Aspects: NA

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The entire scope of the project was the strengthening of the banking system and the
institutional capacity of the BA. The BA has put in place:

    · A new department for payment system (for both RTGS and mass payments)
        including monitoring and supervision.
    · A division of this department is in charge of the oversight of the payment system.
    · A Steering Committee for Arbitration for resolving issues and problems of the
        commercial banks with the BA will be set up.

In addition, the capacity of the staff of the BA and commercial banks has been enhanced
by various types of training imparted to them related to the payments system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project did not have unexpected positive or negative outcomes/impact.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The Beneficiary and Stakeholder workshop took place on Wednesday, October 11, 2004.
It was chaired by Representatives from the World Bank and attended by representatives
from Bank of Algeria, Algeria Telecom, RT2I, External Bank of Algeria, CPA, BNP
Paribas and CPI as well as the Project Director were present. The discussions were
centered around 2 themes: (i) An evaluation of the outcomes and sustainability and (ii)
the lessons learned from the project. Their comments are summarized below:

Outcomes

All stakeholders are satisfied with the outcomes of the project, the network is in place
and has been tested successfully and the infrastructure is in place in the different Banks.
The back-up, security (firewalls, antivirus) and oversight of the RTGS are in place and
have been tested and the management of funds and speed of transactions have improved
significantly.

Sustainability

All stakeholders agree that the sustainability of the project relies on a few essential
points:
      Maintenance and oversight of the system and training on new technology
      Good coordination between all the stakeholders
      Further improvement of the banks information system and,
      Good coordination with all stakeholders


                                              16

Lessons learned (the lessons learned will be explained in detail in section 6)

    · The initial project was probably too ambitious given the environment at the time
        of inception
    · The telecom infrastructure should have come first, then RTGS and then electronic
        Clearing House
    · The security of the network should have been addressed at the design stage

Part of the training should have taken place before implementation, issues regarding the
use of new technology could have been better managed during the implementation of the
project. For instance, BA staff in charge of RTGS did not have sufficient training during
the implementation stage of Telecom infrastructure new technology in order to avoid
some of the delays in the use of the RTGS

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The DOs have been met and the RTGS payment system has become an integral part of
the BA on a permanent basis and as a result, is highly sustainable. The BA is now able to
process all payment transactions in a secured manner. With increased security policy,
more experience gained in operating the payment system, and continuous upgrading of
the system with the development of new technology, the already low risk to the project
outcome will be reduced even further. In addition, as a precautionary measure, the BA
has made arrangements to create a back-up of all the transactions on a regular basis.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The QAG panel rated the quality at entry of this operation as satisfactory overall and in
all individual categories, except in Bank's inputs and process, technical, financial and
economic categories, which were rated as marginally satisfactory. QAG remarked that:

"The payments system has been very well designed taking into account best international
practice."

The ICR team concurs with QAG in their rating of the overall operation. The project was
realistic and essential to the development of the Country's financial sector. It was also
consistent with the CAS for Algeria.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, institutional,
fiduciary, environmental, and social. An assessment of BA's financial management
capacity was carried out by a Financial Management Specialist in order to assess BA's



                                            17

ability to fulfill Bank requirements. A procurement capacity assessment (PCA) of the
project implementing agency, PMU, was also initiated during project preparation and
completed during project appraisal.

Institutional and implementation arrangements as well as M&E arrangements were
clearly defined and laid out. The project also adopted an extensive participatory approach.
The BA, the MOF, and other stakeholders were actively involved in all aspects of project
preparation.

The project was technically sound and addressed the needs of BA, commercial banks,
and other stakeholders. Project components were designed to reflect best international
principles, standards (for example, Bank of International Settlements (BIS) and European
Union standards) and guidelines, as well as local Algerian realities. User needs were
identified during preparation activities via detailed data collection and analysis and were
reflected in the project design.

In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from other related projects in the
financial sector were considered and incorporated into the project design.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Because of the difficult country context and the initial delays in effectiveness and in the
procurement process, as described above in section 2.2, the assessment of
Implementation Performance by the supervision team was a difficult balancing act. The
initial hope was that there would be quick catch up on these delays and that it would be
worthwhile to briefly withhold the decision to downgrade the IP rating to unsatisfactory
with the hope that sufficient progress in implementation would have occurred in the
meantime. In addition, as the project was in practice an avenue to maintain dialogue with
all Algerian authorities on financial sector issues, one concern was that a downgrading
could negatively impact this already tenuous dialogue.

The mid-term review of the project that took place in December 2004, resulted in a
downgrading of the implementation process to "unsatisfactory" due to more than 2
years delay. The team worked on a restructuring proposal with the Central Bank of
Algeria in order to recapture some of the delays and ensure that the major components
can be completed and the DO substantially achieved within an abbreviated time frame.
It was decided that the restructuring plan should be formalized as soon as the
"Protocole" between BA and AT was signed and that a detailed action plan including
selected indicators as milestones (i.e. Strategic Development plan for information
system and the bid evaluation for telecom component) could be agreed upon with BA

With hindsight, the mid-term review proved to be a positive turning point. Because of its
scope, it offered both the supervision team and the Algerian implementation team with an
opportunity to review in detail the status of the project, and to reach on a consensus basis



                                             18

the conclusion that Implementation was indeed unsatisfactory. At the same time, as the
Mid-term review adopted a forward-looking stance, it also allowed the two parties to
agree on a "critical path" to get the project on-track. The decision of the Bank of Algeria
to nominate a new Director for the PMU also contributed to a new start.

Overall, this approach helped in fostering the credibility of the "critical path" agreed to.
The borrowers were fully aware of the fact that without the fulfillment of the measures
then agreed, the Bank would close the project at the initial closing date. This was
particularly important for the supervision team to be able to recommend an extension of
the project, which was conditional on an upgrade of the Implementation Performance
rating based on objective progress.

On a regular basis between the mid-term review and the restructuring of the project, the
supervision team sought advice; through a quality enhancement review of the mid-term
review, and by actively involving the quality unit of the Bank's MENA region in the
preparation of the restructuring.

The Closing Date of the project was extended by one year, from June 30, 2005 to June 30,
2006 due to procurement delays. The extension allowed the Algerian authorities to
complete the implementation of the project's activities in full compliance with the
fiduciary requirements, submit all reports in accordance with the loan agreement and
fulfill the development objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the performance during the lending and supervision phases as described in
section 10.1, the overall bank performance is rated as satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Despite substantial delays in project implementation, the government has remained fully
committed to the development objectives. The Algerian authorities have evidenced their
commitment to broaden the payments systems dialogue, to include not only the Central
Bank systems to process large payments (for which the project provided support), but
also commercial bank systems to process the large volumes of small payments. In
addition, to strengthening the financial infrastructure, the government was also
committed to supporting the sector's role in economic and private sector growth.

The telecommunications component was a major issue during the implementation of the
project as BA faced many hurdles to reach an agreement with MPT/AT to ensure a
reliable, timely and appropriate telecommunications network. The proper implementation
of telecommunications network was not easy and experienced some delays. With the
personal involvement of the Governor of the Central bank, BA signed a Protocol
("Convention") with the MPT (soon to become Algeria Telecom- AT) that defined the


                                             19

responsibilities and obligations of each party in relation to implementation of the
supporting telecommunications infrastructure component of the project, and set out the
conditions under which MPT/AT operated the telecommunications network.

For the development of the telecommunications network, MPT/AT granted the project
access to fiber optic lines which was not made available to the public telephone system.
In addition, the project benefited from a very productive collaboration with AT in the
preparation of the telecom and data transmission component, which provided critical
logistical support for international telecommunications consultants in their assessment of
the existing facilities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

   Implementing Agency                                        Performance


 BANK OF ALGERIA           Institutional Arrangements. The project was managed by BA, who had
                           ultimate executive responsibility for the project. BA established and
                           maintained a good dialogue between the stakeholders in establishing:

                           First, the PMU in charge of the project staffed with a team that was very
                           committed to achieve the development objectives and to resolve timely
                           implementation issues.

                           Second, a Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage) responsible for
                           overseeing the project, addressing key implementation issues, and
                           recommending appropriate solutions and courses of action to the Governor
                           of the BA. The Steering Committee was chaired by a Vice Governor of BA,
                           and included senior officials of BA and several Chairmen of commercial
                           banks.

                           Third, a Consultative Committee (Conseil Consultatifs Correspondants),
                           comprising senior managers of BA and of commercial banks, advised the
                           PMU on payments system activities and issues. It was chaired by the
                           Project Director and convened at least once every trimester.

                           Fourth, BA maintained close links with the CPI in charge of implementing
                           the electronic clearing house and ensured compatibility of the two systems
                           (RTGS and low payments system).

                           Audit: BA appointed an auditor (Inspection Générale des Finances)
                           acceptable to the Bank to carry out an annual audit under specific terms of
                           reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with
                           International Standards of Auditing.        In accordance with the loan
                           agreement, the auditor submitted to the Bank an annual audit report within
                           the six months period following the end of each government fiscal year. No
                           major issues were raised during these audit missions.

                           Project Implementation and Monitoring. BA carried out the project in
                           accordance with a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) that included
                           target dates of actions to be taken and performance indicators to be
                           monitored. BA also furnished the Bank with detailed quarterly reports
                           summarizing progress in implementation, procurement and in the


                                                20

   Implementing Agency                                         Performance

                          achievement of performance indicators.

                          BA coordinated data collection from commercial banks and organized
                          meetings with the senior management of commercial banks to discuss the
                          major issues of payment system design.

                          Counterpart funding.      The project did not suffer from any counterpart
                          funding problems, as BA made appropriate budget provisions.

                          The Governor of the Bank of Algeria championed the project and proved to
                          be a formidable asset in the resolution of issues and bottlenecks.

 PMU                      PROJECT PIU

                          The frequent replacement of the Project Director (three times) slowed down
                          the implementation of the project. However, it is worth mentioning that,
                          with the arrival of the current Project Director in mid 2004, the
                          implementation gained momentum. With the strong commitment and
                          support from BA's top management, and very proactive response from all
                          the stakeholders, the project director was able to put the implementation on
                          track and help the project achieve its objectives.

                          The PIU managed and coordinated the implementation of project activities,
                          including financial management, procurement and disbursement processes
                          satisfactorily to the Bank. The project director and financial management
                          specialist assured the issuance of annual Project Financial Statements
                          (PFSs) and quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) acceptable to the
                          Bank.

                          The PIU also made useful recommendations to the Steering Committee with
                          respect to any issues related to project implementation or payments system
                          development.

                          The PIU also ensured close coordination with the MPT and later with the
                          AT regarding the implementation of the telecommunications network, and
                          with commercial banks and other institutions, which were involved in
                          activities related to the overall payments system.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
In light of the Government, BA and PIU performance as discussed in section 10.2, the
overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Positive lessons

 The Bank took the calculated risk to finance this project in order to create some
momentum in the development of the financial sector in Algeria. Rather than waiting for


                                                 21

the perfect environment and for all the elements to be in place, the Bank and the GoA
went forward. One restructuring and one extension later, this proved to be the right
decision. (General applicability)

 The downgrading of the project was the opportunity to turn a negative situation into a
positive one. The Bank and the GoA showed flexibility and pro-activity in their efforts
to resolve implementation issues. The downgrading of the project to "unsatisfactory" at
mid-term review was a good decision to create a momentum and get the project back on
track The restructuring of the project allowed for more focus on core issues (RTGS first),
improved consistency and reinforced stakeholders ownership. (General applicability)

 The personal involvement of the Governor of the Central bank to mobilize relevant
people inside the Central Bank and outside. He was instrumental in putting pressure on
Algeria-Telecom and public banks to catch up delays, demonstrating once again the
importance of a "Champion" in the success of a project. (General applicability)

 New technology came on the market after the design and approval of the project. The
dilemma facing all participants was the following: do we stay the course, spending more
money and running the risk of building a system that could soon be obsolete, or do we
take two steps backwards and rework the project to include this new technology? The
choice of shifting to a more efficient and cheaper technology for the Telecom
infrastructure was not easy but at the end was definitely the right one. As a result, The
RTGS was launched with success in February 2004, just over a year after project
restructuring. (Project specific)


Negative lessons

 Lack of specialized staff at the Bank, Algeria-Telecom and the PIU regarding the new
technology in Telecom infrastructure caused some delays in the procurement process.
(General applicability)

 The information systems of commercial banks were outside the scope of the project.
As a result, most of the banks are currently behind in implementing an appropriate
interface between RTGS and their own information system. This is preventing them from
fully benefiting from the RTGS. (Project specific)

 Security issues regarding the telecom network should have been addressed at the
inception of the project as part of development objectives. In fact, a breach of security
could have a systemic impact on the financial system (DZ 670 billions per day) and
jeopardize the credibility of the entire Banking system. (General applicability)

 Training issues regarding the new technology used could have been better managed
during the implementation of the project. For instance, BA staff in charge of RTGS did
not have sufficient training during the implementation stage of Telecom infrastructure
new technology. (General applicability)


                                             22

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

There were no real issues raised by the Borrower or the implementing agencies but rather
concerns to ensure the sustainability of the project. Following discussions during the ICR
mission, the project team and the Borrower/Implementing agencies came to the following
conclusions:

For all the stakeholders, the sustainability of the ARTS system depends on constant
upgrades of the application as well as a constant modernization of the technological
environment, particularly telecommunications. To this effect, a Steering Committee
including Bank of Algeria, Algeria Telecoms and one representative from the commercial
banks would be best suited to ensure the regular up-grades. The implementing agency
also recommends the set up of a "one window system" for the day to day problems
encountered.

BA has already streamlined its organization in creating an ad hoc department dealing
with payment system issues. The head of this department is the former head of the PIU.
This ensures a smooth continuity after the closing date of the project. BA is in charge and
accountable for a proper functioning of the overall payment system (RTGS and low
payment system).

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                             23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal
             Components                Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest  Percentage of

                                            M)        Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

PAYMENTS SYSTEM MODERN. FOR
BANK OF ALGERIA                                  4.80              2.70

INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEV. FOR
BANK OF ALGERIA                                  4.50              0.00

SUPPORTING
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                               8.10              1.70
INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT                       0.60              0.20
FRONT-END FEE                                    0.20              0.20
Unallocated                                      0.00              0.40
                   Total Baseline Cost         18.20               5.20
Physical Contingencies                           0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00
                    Total Project Costs        18.20
                                                 0.00              0.00         0.00
                                                 0.00              0.00         0.00
            Total Financing Required           18.20               5.20


(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal
     Source of Funds          Type of                    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                           Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                             M)        Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

 Borrower                                        1.70               3.40   200%
 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                              16.50               3.50    21%
Development




                                           24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Payment systems

(i) Real time gross settlements (RTGS): is fully operational and 100% of the transactions
are handled through the RTGS system.

(ii) Computer network and operating software: have been installed, tested and are
functioning successfully

(iii) Technical assistance and training: assistance and training have been delivered

(See annex 1 (a) indicator 1)

Component 2: Bank of Algeria Information systems

Technical supporting infrastructure for the RTGS system, including local networks an
workstations, servers and software are operational and technical assistance and training
have been provided.

Component 3: Supporting Telecom Infrastructure

The Telecom infrastructure of BA is in place and functional, with adequate back ups. BA
and the commercial banks are ready to switch from SWIFT to the new private network.

Component 4: Project Management Support

All technical assistance and training have been provided regarding this component, as
illustrated by the fact that all systems are operational and have already been integrated
in the banking system




                                              25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
N/A




                                        26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                     Title                 Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Radia Benamghar-Lalouani Procurement Analyst          MNAPR         Procurement Specialist
Didier Debals             Sr. Financial Sector Spec.  MNSED         TTL
Leila Elmasry             Consultant                  MNSIF

Souhila Harchouche        Financial Management
                          Specialist                  MNAFM         FM Specialist

Fatouma Toure Ibrahima    Special Asst. to Vice
Wane                      President                   SECVP         Team Member

Moez Makhlouf             Consultant                  MNAFM         FM Specialist

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY98                                                              63.19
                   FY99                                                             133.59
                   FY00                                           17                133.28
                   FY01                                           22                134.14
                   FY02                                            7                 31.37
                   FY03                                                               0.00
                   FY04                                                               0.00
                   FY05                                                               0.00
                   FY06                                                               0.00
                   FY07                                                               0.00
                                        Total:                    46                495.57
Supervision/ICR
                   FY98                                                               0.00
                   FY99                                                               0.00
                   FY00                                                               0.00
                   FY01                                                               0.00
                   FY02                                            9                 55.04
                   FY03                                           15                 73.98
                   FY04                                           16                110.27
                   FY05                                           20                114.59
                   FY06                                           18                 82.15
                   FY07                                            3                 28.85
                                        Total:                    81                464.88


                                             27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

In this project, the stakeholders and beneficiaries are the same. Therefore since all the
information that would have been found in a survey were provided during the workshop,
a separate survey was not conducted




                                             28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

As described in Section 3.6, the Beneficiary and Stakeholder workshop took place on
Wednesday, October 11, 2004. It was chaired by Representatives from the World Bank
and attended by representatives from Bank of Algeria, Algeria Telecom, RT2I, External
Bank of Algeria, CPA, BNP Paribas and CPI as well as the Project Director was present.
The discussions were centered around 2 themes: (i) An evaluation of the outcomes and
sustainability and (ii) the lessons learned from the project. Their comments are below:


                                       1. BNP Paribas

The implementation in February 2006 of the Payment System Algerian Real Time Gross
Settlement (ARTS) is a key stepping stone in the modernization of the banking and
financial sectors in Algeria. This technological progress allowed the Country to catch up
on the delays accumulated until now, particularly in the payment systems and techniques.

a. Situation before implementation

a.1 : The transfers : Whatever their amount, they were manually handled with a lot of
constraints such as:

The transfers

The order is made by the client at the Branch handling his/her account. The transfer is
entered and transmitted to the Central Back Office on day J. Based on the client's request,
the Central Back Office creates a new request in three copies with a recapitulative
situation by bank to be presented in clearing house. By day J+1 Transfers are exchanged
in clearing house but the credit to the beneficiary client often takes place after long delays

a.2 : Management of the account Bank of Algeria and of the Treasury : The cash
management account opened with the Bank of Algeria is the account used for all treasury
transactions. Prior to implementation of ARTS, the management of this account was
characterized by:

-    Lack of transparency on the different transactions

-    Account statements received on hard copy and often late

-    Lack of information on the transactions preventing an optimal management of the
treasury

b. Situation after implementation

b.1 : The transfers : The urgent transfers and those for large amounts are handled
distinctly



                                              29

The transfers

The order is made by the client at the Branch handling his/her account. The transfer is
entered in the system, scanned and sent to the Central Back Office via Internet. As soon
as they are received, the Central Back Office enters these orders in the transaction
processors, overseen by the "Direction des operations". The order is then given to the
comptroller who validates the transaction.

b.2 : Management of the account Bank of Algeria and of the Treasury : The
implementation of ARTS allowed for a more secure management of the Bank of Algeria
cash management account and therefore the optimization of its Treasury

-   A clear vision in real time of all transactions made with the Bank of Algeria

-   A fail proof traceability of all transactions

-   An automated reception of account statements allowing for an efficient reconciliation
of this account

-   Information in real time on the status of the account allowing for an optimization of
the Treasury.

c. Technical Environment

Since the implementation of ARTS, BNP Paribas El Djazaïr only needed the services of
the Bank of Algeria-Technical Office, once and this because of problems related to the
SWIFT base. While the application has not been problematic per say, we have
encountered repeated cuts in the liaison which disturbs the continuity of the service

d. Sustainability of the System

In our opinion, the sustainability of the ARTS system depends on constant upgrades of
the application as well as a constant modernization of the technological environment
particularly telecommunications. To this effect, a Steering Comity including the Bank of
Algeria, Algérie Télécoms and one representative of the banks would be best suited to
ensure the regular up-grades.

We also recommend the implementation of a one window system serving as hot line for
the day to day problems encountered.




                                              30

                    2 . C r e d i t P o p u l a i r e d ' A l g e r i e

IMPACT OF THE ARTS PROJECT

a . S h o r t t e r m

The implementation of the ARTS system in the Bank of Algeria had for consequence a
great improvement on the handling and execution of the large amount and urgent
transfers received and ordered.

i.e. The delays in admission and reception of this type of transfers went from 5 to 15
days to one day.

This improvement had a positive effect on the image that the clients, real beneficiaries
of this improvement, have of the Bank

In addition, outside of the improved security brought about by the system, it also made
for a more efficient management in real time of the funds flows

This is confirmed by the fact that the Treasurer has at all times a clear picture in real
time of his payment account which allows him to take advantage of any investment
opportunities available on the monetary and financial markets and therefore curtail the
tendency to have a dormant treasury.

On the other hand, if the ARTS project had some positive effects, some localized
technical have occurred, among them the following:

The absence to date of an interface between the Bank of Algeria's information system
and ARTS has created an important amount of work in addition to the ARTS, for
example:

 the Swift messages are received on faxed paper copies and the information they
contain needs to be transcribed.

 verification of the consistency of these transcriptions and their transmission to the
network (an average of 70 fax a day) with all the difficulties linked to the transmission,

 Problems in using the bank statements of the Bank of Algeria transmitted to the
banks in swift fax support.

b. medium and long term

The interface of the information system between the Bank of Algeria and the
ARTS system is being developed and will soon make it possible for the Treasury
to credit directly the beneficiary client's accounts without having to go through
the process explained above.



                                          31

This procedure will not only save a lot of time i twill also improve the processing of the
transactions linked to this system while reducing the risk of human errors that is present
when the transactions are handled manually. In order to reduce the number of outages
caused by the telecoms the Bank of Algeria will be equipped with a V SAT transmission.

Project RTGS

Results:

a. Short term

 Better performance on the client's transfers (speed, reliability and safety).

 Better transparency of the financial and fiduciary transactions (better transaction,
balances and payment account supervision).

b. Medium term

   Provided the necessary automation and an adequate training take place:

    · A better management of the Treasury
    · Optimization of the performance and the costs.

c. Lessons learned

-    Obstacles during implementation: There were no particular obstacles during that
period but rather hurdles inherent to any modernization project. These issues have been
resolved as they occurred during the implementation of the project

-   Retrospective: Two main points need to be underscored:

(i)       The accelerated rhythm of implementation the not give the banks enough time
to implement all the necessary automations.

(ii)    Organization of the project: the creation of a « steering committee » including
the Bank of Algeria and the other banks participating in the project would have made
for a better coordination and project supervision.

3. External Bank of Algeria (BeA)

The implementation of the payment system in real time of large amounts and urgent
payments (RTGS) is now just over 8 month old. This system was implemented
according to international standards and improved significantly the day to day
management of cash flows, the commercial payments between companies, the
payment of transactions made on the capital market (i.e. the stock market, Bonds
market, and inter-bank monetary market) contributing to their development, the



                                            32

payment of the dinar counter parts of transactions negotiated on the exchange rate
market and finally the payment of the netting results of the large amount payment.

Getting the Project on the way took a year of preparations in order to set up the
"structure d'accueil", to train the project team and develop a simulation on the
system (duration about 1 month). The users of the system have rapidly mastered the
functionalities required to efficiently handle the flows of payments and the treasury
transactions.

The average daily number of transactions handled by the system is about 100 and
concerns pretty much each of the Bank's activities. In addition, the transfers
received by ARTS for our clientele are usually treated the same day or at the latest
the next morning, they are routed to the Branches through PC connect SWIFT.

However, the transfer of the exchange value in dinars of the repatriation transactions
with a Friday value date are handled in the ARTS system with the value of the
second business day after the week-end instead of the first, which goes against the
"dispositions de Particle 20 du règlement N° 05-04" dealing with the System in real
time for payment of large amounts or urgent payments (ARTS)

While the implementation of the system had the positive effects listed above on the
speed and security of payments, it did not stimulate the BeA to further accelerate the
implementation of its information system and its' overall modernization.

For the sustainability of the system, it would help to designate only counterpart who will
be in charge of the software and telecommunication hardware maintenance, and will be
the vis-à-vis of Algeria Telecom for all work done on the Network. This way the BeA
will only need one maintenance contract that will cover all possible problems and outages
encountered by the system.

The major obstacle to this project was (and will probably remain for a while) the
information system of the BeA. This system does not allow for an interface between the
client and accounting data of the ARTS platform and the central system of the Bank.
Therefore the transactions can only be entered by hand, with all the risk for human error
that this type of operation represents.

                                    4. Algerie Telecom

    a. Results:

   Realization of the transmission network related to the transmission related to
   the « payment system » project CPI, RTGS and SI was done on time

    · Realization of two loops CWDM (core/backup) and the set up of the hardware
        SDH, X25 and VSAT




                                            33

· Successful testing to ensure that the different links SDH et X25 concerning
   private and public banks were operational
· Satisfaction of the banks following the activation of the CPI, RTGS and SI
   network

b. The sustainability of the Network:

· To ensure the sustainability of the network, maintain it in working order in order
   to provide a better service to the end-users on should:
· Implement a Network supervision system
· Create a unit in charge of coordination between the services of Algeria Telecom
   and the banks in order to efficiently handle the network problems that could
   present themselves
· Train technicians in order to ensure the smooth operation of the network.
· Keep all systems making up the network up to date and upgraded.

c. Main obstacles:

· Certain banks created difficulties to grant access during the installation and hook
   up of the VO support,
· Lack of information regarding the exact positioning of the hardware in the banks
· Delays in the fittings of these areas

d. Lessons learned:

· Do a technical evaluation of the proposals before project implementation
· Design blue prints for the installation of the hardware and train technicians before
   the installation of the hardware
· Investigation and preparation of the different locations before the signature of
   contracts with the companies in charge of the FO installation and hook-ups and
   the set up of the hardware in the offices making up the network.
· Designate the persons responsible for the project supervision at the level of each
   bank




                                        34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
a- Objectifs du projet de modernisation de l'Infrastructure du système financier

Le développement des institutions et les progrès en matière d'intermédiation bancaire ont
entraîné l'évolution et la diversité des instruments de paiement. Les nouvelles
technologies de transmission de données et les progrès en informatique sont à la base de
l'amélioration extraordinaire des procédures de paiement et de recouvrement dans les
pays développés et les pays émergents. En effet, la qualité du système de paiements est
un bon indicateur du fonctionnement d'une économie.

Pour répondre aux impératifs de modernisation et inscrire le système financier dans un
nouveau sentier d'évolution permettant à moyen voire long terme un niveau de
développement de développement financier appréciable et durable. Un important projet
de réforme destiné à la sphère financière et comportant plusieurs volets devait être mis
en exécution pour accompagner les vastes réformes entreprises dans les autres secteurs
économiques. Parmi les axes principaux ayant trait au secteur financier : c'est la mise en
place d'une infrastructure moderne pouvant servir de support de développement au
secteur financier.

L'objectif de développement du projet relatif à la modernisation de l'Infrastructure du
système financier est de doter la place d'une infrastructure qui permette une plus grande
efficacité dans les traitements des services financiers de base, principalement en
modernisant le système de règlement brut en temps réel de gros montants et paiements
urgents et le système de paiement de masse.

b - Modernisation des services de paiement en Algérie

Ces dernières années, la modernisation des services de paiements en Algérie en tant que
composante importante d'amélioration des services bancaires de base s'est imposée à
l'ensemble de la communauté bancaire. Il s'agit :

· d'adapter les systèmes de paiement, de compensation et de règlement interbancaires
aux besoins des usagers (particuliers, entreprises et administrations) et aux exigences
d'une économie moderne, notamment, par la prise en compte des nouveaux instruments
électroniques ;
· réduire les délais de règlement, notamment des échanges hors place ;
· rationaliser et améliorer les procédures et mécanismes de recouvrement des chèques
et autres instruments de paiement sur support papier ;
· promouvoir l'utilisation des paiements scripturaux en remplacement des paiement en
espèces par l'amélioration de la qualité des paiements scripturaux et la réduction des
délais de traitement et de recouvrement ;
· favoriser le développement des instruments de paiement électroniques, notamment,
la carte, le virement, l'avis de prélèvement automatique ;

· réduire le coût de gestion global des paiements et notamment le coût des liquidités
immobilisées dans les comptes de règlement des banques ;



                                             35

· se conformer aux normes internationales en matière de gestion des risques de
liquidité, de crédit et de protection contre les risques systémiques en particulier dans le
cas de règlement des opérations de gros montants et des règlements des systèmes de
compensation multilatérale ;
· renforcer l'efficacité et la sécurité des échanges ;
· renforcer l'efficacité de la politique monétaire.

Pour répondre à ces préoccupations, la Banque d'Algérie a entrepris, avec le concours de
la Banque Mondiale, la mise en        uvre du développement et de la modernisation des
systèmes de paiements algériens à travers le « Projet de développement de l'infrastructure
du système financier ».


Les principaux objectifs visés sont de :

· mettre en place une infrastructure permettant une plus grande efficacité dans le
traitement des opérations inter-bancaires et du marché financier et principalement
développer le système de paiement de gros montants ;
· développer les normes et standards du futur système de compensation des
transactions de petits montants, préalable indispensable au développement de la
compensation automatisée ;
· moderniser le système d'information de la Banque d'Algérie en tant que complément
nécessaire et appui aux systèmes de paiement et au traitement des opérations de politique
monétaire, couverture de change;
· renforcer l'infrastructure de télécommunications entre la Banque d'Algérie et le siège
social de chacune des banques, des établissements financiers, du Centre des Chèques
Postaux, du Trésor Public et du Dépositaire central. Le réseau de télécommunications
contribuera à faciliter le fonctionnement des échanges et à traiter de bout en bout les
opérations de paiement et les échanges de données inter et intra bancaires.

c - Préalables au développement des systèmes de paiement en Algérie

Les préalables au développement et à la modernisation des systèmes de paiements
sont nombreux. On peut noter, entre autres :

· la normalisation des instruments de paiements,
· l'amélioration du réseau de télécommunications existant,
· la modernisation des systèmes d'information de la Banque d'Algérie et des banques,
· la rationalisation de la gestion des comptes « clientèle » des banques.

Pour répondre à ces préalables, la Banque d'Algérie a, en premier lieu, promulgué la
réglementation en matière de normalisation des instruments de paiements (chèque,
virement et carte bancaire) et a défini les règles d'établissement du Relevé d'Identité



                                             36

Bancaire (RIB). Les normes et standards des échanges sont à définir progressivement
pour chaque composante du système de paiement.

Face au préalable incontournable qui est l'existence d'un réseau de télécommunications
fiable, sûr et efficace, la Banque d'Algérie a signé en 2002 une convention avec le
Ministère de la Poste et des Technologies de l'Information et de la Communication
(MPTIC) - relayé par Algérie télécoms à partir de 2003 - pour la réalisation au profit de
la communauté bancaire d'un réseau d'abonnés fermé, à grand débit, fiable, efficace et
sécurisé. Les termes de cette convention incluent la maintenance de ce réseau. Il s'agit
d'une maintenance spécifique du fait que ce réseau doit fonctionner en permanence.

d - Les caractéristiques du système de règlements bruts en temps réel (RTGS) de gros
montants et de paiements urgents


Le développement d'un nouveau système pour les paiements de gros montants s'est
imposé au niveau international à cause des risques importants qui naissent dans les
systèmes de paiement et qui sont indépendants de la qualité de contrepartie bancaire.
Pour le Comité des paiements et de règlement de la Banque des Règlements
Internationaux, effectuer des paiements en temps réel et les rendre irrévocables sont des
éléments de la gestion la plus appropriée des risques de crédit et de liquidité.

Les éléments essentiels du système de règlements bruts en temps réel (RTGS), dont la
réalisation est à la charge de la Banque d'Algérie, sont indiquées ci-après. Ils ont été
détaillés dans le dossier d'appel d'offres préparé à l'intention des soumissionnaires
potentiels.

Nature des opérations de paiement dans le système RTGS

Les opérations de paiement où le facteur temps est essentiel et qui s'effectuent par
l'intermédiaire du système de règlements bruts en temps réel sont :

· les transferts de fonds entre banques ou avec la Banque Centrale de nature à
améliorer de façon significative la gestion quotidienne de la liquidité et de la réserve
obligatoire tout en réduisant les risques systémiques ;
· le traitement rapide des paiements commerciaux entre entreprises qui revêt une
grande importance parce qu'il contribue à la promotion du commerce et au
développement économique ;
· le règlement de transactions opérées sur des marchés de capitaux tels que la bourse,
le marché des titres de l'Etat et le marché monétaire interbancaire, favorisant leur
développement.

Architecture du système RTGS

Le système de règlements bruts en temps réel est un système de paiement interbancaire.
C'est un système où s'effectuent les paiements de gros montants ou de paiements urgents.
Les paiements sont effectués uniquement par virement.


                                             37

Le système de règlements bruts en temps réel de gros montants (RTGS) que la Banque
d'Algérie se propose de développer :
· sera installé selon les standards internationaux ;

·     aura une architecture ouverte permettant le raccordement des participants
actuellement en exercice et de nouveaux participants dans le futur ;
· sera dimensionné pour effectuer un nombre important d'opérations/jour ;
· la plate-forme centrale sera installée à la Banque d'Algérie. Les participants seront
raccordés à ce système via leur siège social en utilisant la plate-forme dite de "
Participant " qui permet d'émettre et de recevoir les opérations et de donner et recevoir
différentes informations nécessaires relatives aux paiements, de manière sécurisée.

Fonctionnalités du système RTGS

Les principales fonctionnalités du système RTGS prévues sont :

· la réalisation des paiements (paiements par virements uniquement) en continu et en
temps réel, après vérification automatisée de l'existence d'une provision suffisante au
Compte de Règlement de participant concerné ;
· un système d'optimisation qui pourra être déclenché selon un mécanisme et un
protocole qui acceptent l'ensemble des pratiques en RTGS ;
· le traitement des résultats de compensation par le débit et le crédit simultanés des
comptes des participants selon le modèle " tout ou rien " ;
· le règlement espèces des opérations d'achat et vente de titres, gérées par le
Dépositaire central ;
· la tenue des Comptes et des sous-comptes de Règlement des participants en temps
réel ;
· la supervision des files d'attente et la résolution des blocages systémiques ;
· l'édition de relevés des Comptes de Règlement et autres données, divers calculs pour
les participants au système, le calcul de la réserve obligatoire constituée.

Le système RTGS permet de servir des requêtes que les participants peuvent introduire
via une connexion de type Internet sécurisée. Les requêtes principales d'un participant
sont :

· la consultation des positions en temps réel du Compte de Règlement et des sous-
comptes le concernant ;
· la consultation des opérations en attente le concernant (émis et reçus) ;
· la consultation (liste) des ordres réglés admis et reçus ;
· la consultation unitaire d'un ordre ou groupe d'ordres (correspondant, par exemple, à
une plage horaire ou aux numéros d'opérations, aux avis de statuts des participants et
autres messages administratifs) ;
· la consultation des mouvements imputés sur son Compte de Règlement           .




                                              38

 e. Exécution du projet :

Conformément aux recommandations du bailleur de fonds, la Banque d'Algérie a mis en
place une Unité de gestion du projet « système de paiements » (UGP), formée d'une
équipe de cadres supérieurs pluridisciplinaires et chargée de l'exécution du projet pour les
composantes prises en charge par la Banque d'Algérie. L'équipe de projet a bénéficié d'un
plan de formation portant sur les systèmes de paiement et de règlement tels que réalisés
dans les pays développés et dans certains pays émergents.

f. Indicateurs clés de performance :


 Le principal indicateur de performance pour la réalisation des objectifs de
développement du projet sera l'utilisation du système RTGS. Depuis l'entrée en
fonctionnement du système ARTS ­ Algeria Real time Settlements ­ un engouement ,
total des participants est relevé à considérer les nombreux avantages tirés de l »'utilisation
du système tant par les participants que par la clientèle des banques.

L'implémentation du système a eu des impacts importants sur le plan organisationnel
induits par le système. Des ruptures fonctionnelles ont permis de revoir l'organisation de
la banque dans son ensemble pour les fonctions des services de paiement.

Quant à l'objectif quantitatif, le basculement vers le système ARTS depuis février 2006 a
permis de voire pratiquement 70 % de la valeur globale des échanges dans le système
bancaire transiter par le système. Et au bout de 09 mois d'activité le taux dépasse les
90 %. Par ailleurs, de nettes améliorations ont été enregistrées pour la autres indicateurs
qualitatifs.

Depuis l'entrée en production du Système ARTS en date du 08 février 2006. Il est
enregistré, sur la période comprise entre février et octobre 2006, 800 opérations de
règlement en moyenne par jour transitant par le système ARTS, représentant un montant
quotidien moyen de 670 Milliards de Dinars.

La mise en exploitation du système ARTS a eu un fort impact sur la gestion de trésorerie
des banques et des flux interbancaires. En effet, tout les flux de paiement interbancaires
d'un montant égal ou supérieur à 01 Million de Dinars transitent par le système ARTS.
La politique monétaire a bénéficié d'une souplesse et rapidité dans sa conduite.

Le système ARTS ne se limite pas uniquement au règlement des opérations de gros
montants et paiements urgents ; mais également, au règlement respectivement, des soldes
déversés par les chambres de compensation traditionnelles gérés par la Banque d'Algérie,
des soldes déversés par le système de paiement de masse ATCI géré par le Centre de Pré-
compensation Interbancaire, les soldes du système monétique déversés par la SATIM et
en dernier lieu, les soldes que déverse Algérie Clearing concernant les opérations sur
titres.

Il est à signaler que depuis le démarrage en opérations réelles, il n'a été enregistré aucun
incident et la disponibilité du système est de 100%.




                                              39

On escompte une montée en charge des opérations de règlement avec le parachèvement
du projet de modernisation des paiements de masse et la finalisation de la mise à niveau
des systèmes d'informations des banques.


g. Enseignements tirés tirées de la mise en oeuvre de ce projet :

En premier lieu, il faut reconnaître que de tels projets présentent un certain niveau de
complexité étant donné qu'il induit des changements structurels importants impactant la
corporation dans son ensemble et les utilisateurs des services bancaires en particulier.

A notre avis cela doit au préalable être précédé par un consensus de l'ensemble des
acteurs ou chacun doit se sentir responsable et adhérent au projet de modernisation. La
modernisation ne doit pas se limiter uniquement aux projets initiés par les pouvoirs
publics mais à désormais ils doivent être le fait des institutions donc du marché.

Avoir une équipe de management et des experts composant l'UGP maîtrisant tous les
aspects liés au projet étant donné que les champs couverts par de tels projets touchent à
tous les aspects directement ou indirectement.

La formation de l'équipe projet a permis de compter principalement sur les ressources
locales et assurer une indépendance presque totale par rapport aux fournisseurs par le
transfert de compétences opéré et la continuité de l'exploitation après réalisation. De
même, les banques ont également bénéficié d'un important programme de formation
facteur qui a été déterminant dans la réussite du projet

Aux termes de l'expérience tirée de ce projet, on pourrait certainement mieux faire dans
de futurs projets grâce à l'expérience qu'on a engrangé durant l'exécution de ce projet.

L'apport et la disponibilité des experts de Banque, nous a rassuré pendant la durée de vie
de ce projet par leurs conseils et orientations.

Conclusion :

En guise de conclusion, on peut dire que le projet n'est pas terminé plutôt on vient de le
commencer car il faut assurer sa pérennité. De nombreux domaines sont à améliorer
mieux cerner et qui de la stabilité du système financier.

De nombreux travaux et actions vont de pair avec les autres activités pour prévenir le
risque (risque crédit, risque de fraude, blanchiment, management,...)           en place ou
améliorer les dispositifs lis en place et consolider ainsi le secteur financier.

Par ailleurs, la mondialisation est un facteur déterminant dans le processus de mise à
niveau et d'intégration.




                                              40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

See Annex 6 on the workshop




                                     41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document for the Algeria: Financial System Infrastructure Project dated June
   25, 2001 (Report No. -22475-AL)

Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

Project Progress Reports.

Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

Beneficiary Assessment, dated April 2005

Borrower's Evaluation Report dated October 2006




                                              42

Annex 10.A: Project Risk Assessment & their mitigation


             Risk                Risk Rating      Risk Mitigation       Evaluation of
                                                      Measure              the risk
                                                                          identified
From Outputs to Objectives
Failure by banks to develop           S       The Project will         Well assessed
information technology for the                provide headquarters
provision of bank services
would limit the overall benefits              of the major banks
of the Project.                               with access to the
                                              proposed electronic
                                              data transmission
                                              network. Each bank's
                                              initiative to develop
                                              information technology
                                              across its branch
                                              network is beyond the
                                              scope of the project.
                                              The Project will
                                              include linkages to
                                              facilitate industry-wide
                                              initiatives.
Lack of focus by financial            S       Growing                  Well assessed
institutions on customer                      competitiveness within
service                                       the financial sector will
                                              help to strengthen the
                                              focus on customer
                                              needs and the
                                              provision of basic
                                              financial services
Lack of agreement by                  S       Strong participatory     Well assessed
commercial banks on                           approach in the design
participation criteria and                    of the new payment
interfaces for the                            systems
payments systems.
Loss of qualified BA                 M        A robust PMU is in       Somewhat
technical staff                               place and will be        optimist at the
                                              formally established by onset but the
                                              July 31, 2001. Also,     mitigating
                                              MPT and qualified        measures proved
                                              local firms are capable  accurate
                                              of providing assistance
                                              if necessary
Deterioration in                     M        Government               Well assessed



                                            43

economic, political and            commitment to
social environment                 economic growth and
                                   stability is strong
From components to
Outputs
Deterioration of the          M    Current situation is     Well assessed
security situation impedes         stable and Government
on-site participation of           is committed to
international consultants          maintaining a secure
and suppliers in project           environment
implementation
Inadequate understanding      M    BA will provide          Underestimated
or cooperation among the           leadership and take a
various stakeholders in the        strong collaborative
development of the                 approach during
payments system,                   project preparation and
including low-value                implementation,
systems and the electronic         through means such as
clearing house                     the establishment of a
                                   Consultative
                                   Committee chaired by
                                   BA
Inadequate project            M    A strong PMU headed      Well assessed
management skills in BA,           by an experienced
particularly for                   Project Director is
procurement issues                 being established
Problems with                 M    Design of a transparent Well assessed
procurement processes              system for
                                   procurement and use of
                                   external consultants to
                                   prepare and finalize
                                   technical specifications
                                   and assist with the bids
                                   evaluation process
Insufficient collaboration    M    Early involvement of     Well assessed
between BA and MPT in              MPT in the project       but became n/a
the implementation of the          preparation and active   after the creation
telecom infrastructure             participation in the     of AT
component.                         project design and
                                   development plan.
                                   Also a Protocol
                                   Agreement will be
                                   entered into by BA and
                                   MPT as a condition for
                                   effectiveness
Inadequate understanding      M    A robust PMU is being    Well assessed



                                 44

by BA of the payment             established. Also, the
system requirements and          procurement strategy
their technical and              will require the
operational implications         successful vendor to
                                 support the new
                                 systems and
                                 adequately transfer the
                                 know-how to local
                                 personnel.
Overall Risk Rating         M                            Well assessed




                               45

Annex 10.B : PROJECT INDICATORS




                               46

47

48

Annex 10.C: Project Design Summary ­ Revised Intermediary Performance
Indicators
Hierarchy of Objectives                Key Performance                        Key Performance
                                       Indicators (initial)                   Indicators (revised)

Project Development Objective:         Outcome I Impact Indicators:
More efficient enabling infrastructure Growth in the utilization of the       Unchanged
for basic financial services           RTGS system and in the amount of
                                       large-value payments processed by
                                       system. The large value payments
                                       processed by the RTGS system on a
                                       daily basis should rise to 70 % of the
                                       total value of all transactions within
                                       the banking system within 6 months
                                       of system cut-over, and to 80 %
                                       within one year after system cut-over

                                       Demonstrable reduction in the use of
                                       large-value checks following system
                                       cut-over

                                       Improved quality of BA's policy
                                       analyses, knowledge management,
                                       services to the financial sector, and
                                       monetary policy


Hierarchy of Objectives                Key Performance                        Intermediary Performance
                                       Indicators (initial)                   Indicators (revised)

Output from each                       Output Indicators:
Component:
1. Payments System Modernization -     1. a) Large-value transactions are         RTGS system installed and
A well-functioning RTGS system,        settled in real time with intra-day        tested on Zirout site
including associated regulatory        finality                                   Regulatory framework
systems, and the adoption of norms,                                               defined (including regulations
standards and regulations for future   1. b) Incidence of large-value             and account conventions)
low value payments systems             settlement delays exceeding one day        Customized software installed
                                       are virtually eliminated within one        Completion of training on the
                                       year of system cut-over                    RTGS system for Bank of
                                                                                  Algeria staff
                                       1. c) RTGS system availability of at
                                       least 90% within one year of system
                                       cut-over, and 98% within two years         Definition and publication of
                                       of system cut-over                         norms and standards for
                                                                                  small-payments systems (in
                                       1. d) Norms and standards for low-         particular for credit cards)
                                       value payments systems are
                                       completed and published by
                                       December 2002

2. Information Systems                 2. Improved quality and timeliness of  Component removed because no
Modernization for the Bank of          the central bank's financial and       longer financed by project.
Algeria ­ Improved information         economic statistics and publications   However, the Bank and the
systems are operational                                                       authorities agreed to maintain a
                                                                              monitoring of its implementation
                                                                              using the following indicators

                                                                                  Agreement reached with Swift
                                                                                  Contract with the provider for



                                                          49

Hierarchy of Objectives              Key Performance                     Key Performance
                                     Indicators (initial)                Indicators (revised)
                                                                             the BA network signed
                                                                             Up-dated convention between
                                                                             Bank of Algeria and Algérie
                                                                             Télécom signed
3. Supporting Telecommunications     3. The telecommunications
Infrastructure ­ Well-functioning    infrastructure enables the
telecommunications links serving the achievement of the performance
payments systems, BA information     indicators given above for the
systems and other communications     payment systems and BA information
among financial sector participants  systems

4. Project Management Support ­ A    4. Project implementation proceeds
well-functioning PMU with adequate   smoothly and in accordance with the
capacity to implement the project    Project Implementation Plan




                                                      50

