Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7069-AL
Loan Agreement
(Financial System Infrastructure Modernization Project)
between
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 4, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7069-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2002, between PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Page  2
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Banque d'Algérie” means the Borrower’s central bank, operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(b)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said Interest Period;
(c)
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on which 
the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date being the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn;
(d)
“MPT” means Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(e)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be maintained by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan to be prepared by the Borrower 
and submitted to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing the implementation of the 
Project, such plan to, inter
alia
:
(i) set forth the timetable of actions required under the Project; 
(ii) identify the procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the 
achievements of the objectives of the Project; and (iii) detail the financial management 
procedures for the Project including, inter
alia
,
the auditing, accounting and financial reporting 
arrangements for the Project;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(i)
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixteen million five hundred thousand 
Dollars ($16,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in the Banque d’Algérie on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one hundred sixty five thousand Dollars ($165,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions, to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the variable 
rate; provided, that upon a conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the conversion period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the ninth (9th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount and the last such 
installment to be payable on the twenty fifth (25th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity 
Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to 
one seventeenth (1/17th) of said Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the 
remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any one or 
more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of 
such paragraph (a), be payable after October 15, 2017, the Borrower shall also pay on such date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Section, in 
the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
Page  7
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Banque d’Algérie and MPT have entered into the protocol referred to under 
paragraph B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has submitted to the Bank a Project Implementation Plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Place de Pérou
Algiers 16000
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINPLAN
67073
(213) 2-736440
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  8
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
  OF ALGERIA 
By /s/ Idriss El Jazairy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Categories
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
1,800,000
100%
and training
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 100% 
(a)
under Parts A, B,
8,500,000
of local expenditures
C.1 and D of the Project
(ex-factory cost)
Page  9
and 80% of local
(b) under Part C.2 of
4,800,000
expenditures for other
the Project
items procured locally
(3)
Fee
165,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
1,235,000
TOTAL
16,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for services supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding one million six hundred fifty thousand 
Dollars ($1,650,000) may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) (a) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 2001; and (b) expenditures 
under Category 2 (b) unless the Borrower shall have prepared and submitted to the Bank: (i) a 
study, satisfactory to the Bank, that shall identify the requisite infrastructure for the systems to be 
developed under Part C.2 of the Project; and (ii) a suitable plan setting forth the modalities for 
the progressive utilization of the infrastructure referred to under (i) above and for the sharing, 
among users of said infrastructure, of the operational costs of said infrastructure.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (ii) services under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (iii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract; and (iv) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in putting in place an efficient 
infrastructure for basic financial services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Modernization and Development of Payments Systems
Page  10
Carrying out a program to modernize and develop inter-bank payments systems at the 
national level through, inter
alia
:
(i) the development of suitable software applications, including 
associated support for installation and testing; (ii) the provision of computer hardware and 
software, including servers and workstations; (iii) the training of the staff of Banque d’Algérie on 
the new payments systems; and (iv) the preparation of studies to identify the appropriate 
participant fees for large-value and retail clearing, settlement and payment systems, and to 
identify appropriate interface specification and processing rules for the electronic clearing and 
settlement of retail banking payments.
Part B
: Development of the Information Systems
Carrying out a program to develop new information systems for Banque d’Algérie 
through: (i) the provision of technical support, including computer and other equipment, to put in 
place the requisite infrastructure for a suitable inter-bank transaction and payment system; (ii) the 
provision of computer hardware and software for Banque d’Algérie’s internal information 
systems; and (iii) the training of the staff of Banque d’Algérie on the new information systems.
Part C
: Telecommunications Infrastructure
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, and the 
preparation of studies, a program to develop a suitable telecommunications network designed to 
connect the offices of Banque d’Algérie, located within the city of Algiers, with the main offices 
of commercial banks located within the city of Algiers and with regional offices of Banque 
d’Algérie countrywide, including the provision of goods and consultants’ services therefor and 
the training of Banque d’Algérie’s staff thereon.
2.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, and the 
preparation of studies, a program to develop a suitable telecommunications network designed to 
process inter-bank payment transactions and Banque d’Algérie’s internal information data and 
external inter-bank data.
Part D
: Project Management Support
Support to PMU, through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ services, to 
strengthen its Project implementation capabilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
Page  11
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely that, to the extent 
practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 
equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, and the first three contracts for goods procured in accordance with the provisions of Part 
C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  12
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  13
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants, the terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation and Management
1.
The Borrower shall vest Banque d’Algérie with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. Banque d’Algérie shall be assisted in the carrying out of its 
responsibilities by PMU.
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2001, establish, and thereafter maintain, PMU 
with professional staffing in adequate number, whose experience and terms of reference shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. PMU shall be managed by a Project director who shall operate under the 
auspices of the Steering Committee. PMU shall be responsible for, inter
alia
, the procurement 
and disbursement processes under the Project, monitoring consultants’ performance and 
coordinating the implementation of Project activities. Key staff of PMU shall include specialists 
responsible for the procurement, accounting and financial management processes, the operation 
of the telecommunications networks, the preparation of the legal and regulatory framework 
governing the payments systems and the security of the payments systems.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee with  membership and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank. A Vice Governor of Banque d’Algérie shall chair the Steering 
Committee whose membership shall include senior officials of Banque d’Algérie, as well as 
several chairmen of local commercial banks.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain a consultative committee, with membership comprising 
senior managers from Banque d’Algérie and local commercial banks, whose main objective shall 
be to advise PMU on issues relating to the operation of the payments systems.
B.
Part C of the Project
1.
Unless the Borrower and the Bank otherwise agree, Banque d’Algérie shall carry out 
Page  14
Part C of the Project in accordance, inter
alia
, with the provisions of a protocol, whose substance 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, entered into between MPT and Banque d’Algérie which shall, 
inter
alia
, define the responsibilities and obligations of Banque d’Algérie and MPT, respectively, 
in relation to the carrying out of Part C of the Project, and set out the conditions under which 
MPT shall operate the telecommunications networks to be established thereunder.
2.
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph B.1 above, the Borrower shall exchange 
views with the Bank with respect to the study referred to under paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement and shall, not later than three calendar months following the date on which the 
Bank shall have received the said study, carry out the study’s recommendations taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
C.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about June 30, 2003, a report which shall integrate the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (a) and (2) (b) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Page  15
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and in the equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
Page  16
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
