D _cmot of
-The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M . "IWTCF 1tH.,;E; cPY
fiepnrt No. FP- 5S'7U  &N                                         Rqit No. P-5570-BEN
65AYJi11, A. / Y3471.9   J 3806'/ hA}1UUk
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 41.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
JUNE 3, 1991
This docume_t has a resticted distribution ad may be ued by recpie* only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its cotent  may not oterwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFA?) is tied to the French franc (FF) at the rate of FF 1
to CFAF 50. The French franc is currently floating. The rate of CFAF 270
to I US dollar is used for economic projections beginning in 1991.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP       African, Carribean, and Pacific Countries
BBD       Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Benin
BCUAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CARDER    Centre d'Action Regionale et de Developpement Rural
CCP       Centre des Cheques Postaux
CePEPE    Centre de Promotion d'Emploi et de Petites Entreprises
CNBF      Centre National des Bureaux de Fret
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CNE       Caisse Nationale d*Epargne
COBENAM   Compagnie Beninoise de Navigation Maritime
FIR       Fonds d'Indemnisation et de Remboursement
MANUCIA   Societe de Manufacture de Cigarettes et Allumettes
MDRAC     Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
NGO's     Non-Governmental Organizations
OBSS      Office Beninoise de Securite Sociale
OCBN      Organisation Commune Benin-Niger
OPT       Office de Postes et de Telecommunications
PAC       Port Autonome de Cotonou
PDV       Programme de Depart Volontaire
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PIP       Public Investment Program
SBEE      Societe Beninoise de l'Eau et de l'Electricite
SCO       Societe de Ciment d'Onigbolo
SDA       Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SEB       Societe d'Engrais du Benin
SITEX     Societe Industrielle de Textile
SHE       Small and Medium Enterprises
SOBETEX   Societe Beninoise de Textile
SOCOGIM Societe de Construction et de Gestion Immobiliere
SONACI    Societe Nationale des Ciments
SONACOP   Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Produits Petroliers
SONAPRA   Societe Nationale de Promotion Agricole
SONAR     Societe Nationale des Assurances et Reassurance
SONICOG   Societe Nationale pour l'Industrie des Corps Gras
SPA       Special Program of Assistance
SSS       Societe Sucriere de Save



FOR OMFCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF lENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
PaRe
Credit Sumiary  . . . . . . . . . .                                  £
PART I -_COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.   Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
S.   Adjustment Progress   ..................  4
C.   Central Development Issues  ...............  9
D.  Country Lending Strategy and Priorities   . . . . . . . . 11
Z.  Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMP   . . . . . . 15
F.   Summary Assessment    . . . .  .    . . . .  . .  . . . . . . 15
PART II - THE SAL II PROGRAM 1991-93
A.   Public Finance and Reform of the Fiscal System  . . . . . 17
B.  Administrative Reform and the Civil Service
Reduction Program   . ..  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 21
C.   Refom of the Financial System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
D.   Public Enterprise Reform  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 25
S.   Trade Policy Reform, Deregulation, and
Private Sector Promotion   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . 27
F.   Education Sector Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
G.   The SocLal Dimensions of Adjustment       .  .  .   . . . . 30
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, AND SOCIAL IMPACT
A.   Economic and Financial Impact   . . . . . .     . .       . .31
B.   Social Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
C.   External Financing Requirements     .    .  .  .    . . . 34
D.   Downside Risks  . . . . . . .             . . . . . . .   . 35
PART rv - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
,A.   Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
B.  Monitorable Actions   ... a....  .....                 . .  39
C.   Management, Monitoring, and Reporting of the Program. . . 43
D.   Procurement, Disbursement, and Retroactive Financing  . . 43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t.'e perfo. nance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banik auth, iization.



PATV- V   OS       b    . .    * . . . . .  * . . . . . .  *. .    . 44
I= TABtLES
table I - acoeconcm1c Indicators, 198S-90 . . * . * *    * . * . . 3
Sable 2 - Dlstrlbutlon of IDA Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
table 3 - S _y Indlcators, 1990-95 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 4 - Jternal fSnumcing Bequireuats, 1991-93  . . . . . . . . 36
Table 5 - Key Indicators Under Alternative Scenarios  . . . . . . . 38
ANNEXES
I. Social Indicator Data Sbeet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
II. Macroeconomae Data. Base Case Wlth Mjustment  . . . . . . . . 47
III. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
IV. Status of Wrld Bank Loans an4 Credlts   .. .. . . . . .    . 57
V. Republic of lenin: Statement of Development Strategy in
the Context of a Second Structural Adjustment Program . . . . 58
VI. Second Structural Adjustment Program Policy Matrix   . . . . . 87



REPURLIC OF BENIM
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
CaEDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Dorrowers            Republic of Benin
Credit Amount:       8DR 41.3 million (US$ 55 million equivalent)
Teoms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Protram
Description,         The Credit would support the second phase of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program, covering
the period 1991-93. The program's basic objectives are
to create the conditions for a sustainable recovery of
economic activity, leading to a growth rate of close to
four percent by 1993, and to improve the provision of
basic social services while protecting vulnerable
groups. To this end, policies will be implemented to
contain the rate of increase of domestic costs and
prices to less than three percent and to accelerate the
return to a viable balance of payments position by
expanding exports and substituting for imports,
eliminating external payments arrears, and increasing
the net foreign assets of the banking system.
Specifically, the program aims att i) a significant
improvement in the Government's financial position by
re-establishing an equilibrium, and eventually
surpluses. in the primary current balance; ii) the
administrative restructuring of key ministries and a
revised program of civil service departures; iii)
pursuit of the financial system restructuring and
establishing an appropriate judicial and supervisory
framework for sound financial intermediation; iv)
rationalization of the public enterprise sector through
further divestitures and improvements in the financial
performance of enterprises remaining in the government
portfolio; v) further improvements in the trade regime
and in the incentive structure for private investments;
vi) laying the basis for a far-reaching reform of the
edu'ational sy rem; and vii) implementing a
rehabilLtation program for critical administrative and
social Infrastructure and short-term measures to
protect vulnerable groups.
Risks*               The main risks atiociated with the proposed operation
are thats 1) the newly-elected Government may be pre-
occupied with consolidating public support and thus
less willing to fully implement a number of key
structural measures; ii) prices for key export
conmodities may be lower than projected; and iii)
shortfalls in expected external assistance could delay



- ii -
the smooth implementation of important program
components.
Estimated
Disbursementot       The Credit would be disbursed in three tranches.  The
first tranche of SDR 18.7 million (US$ 25 million
equivalent) would be made available upon effectiveness,
an4l the second and third of SDR 11.3 million
('$ 15 million) each, upon satisfactory progress in
implementing the program and specific monitorable
actions. Performance reviews would be carried out in
February and October 1992.



INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RICO)NATION OP THE PRZSIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE LIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMT CREDIT
OF SDR 41.3 MILLION (USS 55 MILLION XQUIVALUN)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 41.3 million (US$ 55 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Benin to support the Government's second Structural Adjustment
Program (SAL II). The proposed credit, to be disbursed in three tranches,
would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity including 10 years of
grace.
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4686-BEN) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1984, and a Policy
Framework Paper was discussed by the Executive Directors in May 1989. The
report which follows updates the information and analysis contained in
these documents by incorporating the findings of recent economic missions,
including the December 1990 appraisal mission and the April/May 1991 post-
appraisal mission for the proposed second structural adjustment program.
Part I of this report describes the country policies and Bank assistance
strategy while Part 1I discusses the contents of SAL II. Part III reviews
the economic, fianmcial, and social impact expected from the program and
Part IV sets out features of the proposed credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.     Background
3.     Benin is a small country of 4.6 million people with an annual per
capita income of US$ 380 (1989). The primary sector, representing close to
40 percent of GDP, romains the mainstay of the economy. Despite a
relatively modest natural resource base, Benin is self-sufficient In food
and has been successful in increasing exports of its main cash crop,
cotton, since 1982. A small industrial sector (8 percent of GDP) produces
mostly consumption goods (beverages, soap, and sugar) and a few basic
co dities (textiles and cement).  A small offshore oilfield began
production in 1983, and produced some 21 percent of domestic export
receipts (net of re-exports) in 1990. Due to the considerable volume of
transit trade with its coastal and inland neighbors (Burkina Faso, Niger,
Nigeria, and Togo), Benin is especially vulnerable to economic and
political developments in those countries. A large and growing part of
economic activity, particularly in commerce, services, and the re-export of
agricultural products to neighboring countries, is carried out in an
!nformal and unstructured manner.
4.        Economic Develoyments: Economic policy during the 1975-1982
period was driven primarily by the Government's efforts to accelerate
growth and development by increasing state ownership of productive
activities, consistent with the prevailing marxist-leninist ideology.



- 2 -
Thus, most private sector businesses and financlal Institutions were
nationalized, a large number of public enterprises were established,
collective farming systems were set up in agriculture, and a highly
regulated framework was put in place to govezn private activity and trade.
Sizeable public enterprise investments were made between 1979 and 1983,
especially to produce oil, fertilizers, sugar, and cement, the latter two
In cooperation with Nigeria. Numerous tares were Introduced and increased,
and the expansion of the statels role was associated with a tripling of the
civil service, and a parallel growth in higher education graduates seeking
jobs in goverument. Partly as a consequence of the oil and uranium booms
in Nigeria and Niger (leading to a strong growth in re-export trade through
Benin), but also as a result of buoyant activity under the first State Plan
of 1977-80 (much of it financed by external borrowing), the economic Impact
of these policies was initially favorable, with growth averaging 5 percent
in 1977-80, in a context of internal and external stability. During this
period. Benin, as a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMQA) and
the Central Bank of West African States (BCEA0), enjoyed the benefits of
the common currency (the CPA franc) and rediacounting facility.
5.        The end of the boon in neighboring countries and completlon of
major public sector projects by 1983 revealed an economic structure saddled
with poorly-designed, low-return investments, heavy external debt service,
a large part of the productive economy without adequate incentives, and a
state-dominated modern sector poorly managed and suffering losses.
Excessively expansionary macroeconomic policies eventually resulted in
domestic and external imbalances that by the late 1980's had become
unsustainable (table 1). In 1987 the severity of the economic crlsis was
evident in a 1.5 percent decline in real GDP and the collapse of the
banking system, 75 percent of whose consolidated portfolio was non-
performing. Despite a large decline in public investments, the overall
budget deficit (comuitment basis, excluding grants) romained close to 11
percent of GDP in 1985-87, reflecting the rapid increase in the wage bill
and rising debt service payments. External and domestic arrears rose to
the equivalent of 15 percent and 19 percent of GDP, respectively; the stock
of medium and long-term external debt increased to 47 percent of GDP at
end-1987, while total debt service rose to 53 percent of export receipts
and 50 percent of government revenues. In early 1989 the banking sector
crisis resulted in the complete illiquidity of the three state banks, a
freeze on deposits, and a sharp fall in the proportion of taxes paid in
liquid form.
6.        Political Develovmentes From independence in 1960 until the 1972
coup which brought the military Governmet of Colonel Kerekou to power,
lenin underwent frequent changes in Government. Subsequently, the country
experienced a comparatively long period of political stability until
1988/89. The first structural adjustment program (SAL I) was introduced in
1989 amidst growing popular discontent with the one-party marxist-leninist
regime Installed by President Kerekou in the mid-1970's. Thli profound
discontent with the political system and with the gross mismanagement of
the economy was greatly exacerbated by an increase In civil service salary
arrears, and the perception that the burden of adjustment was not being
equally shared. Three months of arrears had already been Incurred when SAL
I was approved by the Board in May 1989. By end-1989 anti-government
demonstrations reached crisis proportionsa teachers who had been on strike
for most of the year were joined by civil servants, bringing the government



- 3 -
Ohb"                           9min: Tble 1- lRang,al@  Idloat,  190
0~7:0WFM
-   Histori1                        lFrollt.
1iS    1s      iuw    `118    Im               IO
1. bai I P" of ow
- as 08tic Prw   t %.p.              2.3    2.2   -1.5       3.0   -0.?              2.6
- Fr Cpita Imam                     -5.8   -6.4   -5.2       5.5   -.7.1            -1.3
- Eof of 0od  S IFS                   -     4.0      0.5   -2.0   44.5               1.0
- iqWt ofGooeSWS                    34.8  -10.8   -8.3       8.5  -O.8               9.0
2. Exterl    t indicator ()
- Obt htstali    (lOW)WP           61.8   51.3   47.8   48.2   51.1                42.1
- Oht 34rvicF                       87.0    56.8   58.0   47.1    76.2              84.4
3. I Shue of GOP at o.P.
- rois   stioc infNtusnt            14.1    13.6   13.1    13.5    0.1              11.4
- GriM  atoalm Shvin                 8.8    6.0    6.0    5.8        2.8             8.4
-  wwiumt nrimw                     12.7   13.2   12.8   12.8    9.2                 9.7
- Ouwadnnt Total E2qNndituf         23.6   28.8   23.0   22.8    19.7               19.4
- ov't Owarall uftltt,            -10.0  -10.6  -11.0   -9.5   -10.5               -9.7
(amDltt basis)
- Orrmnt owait  tanom,              -4.3    -7.7  -4.2   -7.7   -4.2                -8.0
(ssiudIf,g rfts)
- Extewmi Toem of Trdsd (10000)      .si    u.0    u5.s    08.3   68.5              60.9
I/ 6Y ad)sAW  for oxterml two of trub.
SDUCe: Off lOaI b v't 4atF ant ek Staff osk buw3.



- 4 -
administrative apparatus to a virtual standstill. An entire school year
had been lost and another one was at risk.
7.        In these circumstances, the authorities concluded in December
1989 that marxism-leninism and the single-party system were incompatible
with economic liberalization and efficiency in the coAduct of public
affairs, both of which vere required by the structural adjustment program.
A National Conference was called to determine the country's political
future in February 1990. It put in place a one-year transitional
government, and a new prime minister and cabinet were appointed in March
1990; an interim legislative body was also established, with broadly based
representation of regional groups. A referendum on a new constitution was
held in December 1990, followed by multi-party legislative and presidential
elections in February/March 1991. The new President, Mr. Nicephore Soglo,
a former Bank Executive Director, was elected with an overwhelming majority
of the votes and took office on April 4. 1991.
B.        Adjustment Proaress
8.        The Government's initial response to the economic deterioration
was piecemeal and included measures in the areas of investment programming,
resource mobilization, elimination of irregular salary payments,
agricultural producer pricing, public enterprise reform, liberalization of
transport, and public utility pricing. While addressing important issues,
these measures proved incepable of containing the crisis. F-ced with this
situation, the Government embraced a more radical approach to structural
adjustment in 1989, for which it received IDA and IMP support (SAL I and a
SAF arrangement approved in May and June 1989, respectively). The program
represented a fundamental shift in Benin's past development strategy
towards economic liberalization and the encouragement of private sector
development and significantly reducing the public sector's role in the
economy. The program's main objective was to raise real GDP growth to
about 3 percent annually within a viable macroeconomic framework by: I)
reducing the role of the public sector so as to better enable it to perform
its new function as the efficient provider of core public services; ii)
reinforcing public sector resource management by improving investment
programming and the management of public enterprises remaining in the
government portfolio; iII) restructuring the banking system to permit it to
resume effective financial intermediation; and iv) reforming incentive
policies to promote private sector activity.
9.        Macroeconomic policy under SAL I was tailored to reduce the
budget and current account deficits as pre-conditions for the resumption of
growth. Overall macroeconomic performance in 1989, and the fiscal effort
in particular, however, fell far short of expectations: real GDP declined,
the fiscal deficit widened, and the sharp improvement in the current
account deficit proved temporary. Despite a significant increase in the
value-added in the agricultural sector (due to increased cotton output),



real GDP declined by an estimated 0.7 percent in 1989 1/, as agai1st the
program growth target of 2,5 percent.   The continued absence of a
functioning banking system throughout 1989 and the reduction in incomoo of
large segmente of the urban population due to arrears In salary psymnents,
combined with a 20 percent decline in the volume of oil production,
resulted in the poor performance of the secondary and tertiary sectors,
which explain the decline in real GDP; per capita incomes (adjusted for
terms of trade changes) fell to their lowest level in five years, declining
by an estimated 7 percent. The rate oi inflation, as measured by the GDP
deflator, remained moderate. The large contraction in fixed investment
induced a decline in the gross investment/GDP ratio significantly belowi
projections. Preliminary estimates for 1990 suggest a substantial recovery
of output, with GDP rising by 2.6 percent.
10.       Although government expenditure was kept below programmed
levels, the overall deficit widened to the equivalent of 10.5 percent of
GDP in 1989 mainly as a result of a 27 percent drop in government revenues.
The shortfall in revenues was in turn the consequence of a combination of
factors, including the impact of the banking system's collapse, the
contraction in domestic demand, a decrease in transit trade, an increase in
illicit imports, and a decline in the efficiency of revenue collection due
to intermittent strikes by civil servants and growing fraud. Current
expenditure, on a commitment basis, was kept 4 percent below the programmed
levels, but salary arrears were nonetheless incurred. These amounted to 3
months by December 1989 (in addition to 3 months in arrears carried over
from 1988) when a special donors' effort was made to clear the 1989 arrears
following the restoration of conditions required for the structural
adjustment program to proceed. Reflecting in part the lack of domestic
counterpart funds and the suspension of disbursements by some donors in
response to the accumulation of arrears, central government investment
expenditure fell 15 percent short of the prograumed level. Slower progress
in meeting the agreed conditions for the release of exceptional financing,
in addition to the serious difficulties experienced by the Government in
amassing import invoices and customs declarations required for
disbursements, resulted in a 48 percent shortfall in foreign financing.
Domestic arrears increased to approximately CFAr 75 billion, but the stock
of external arrears declined significantly, principally due to rescheduling
by the Paris Club in June 1989; external payments arrears, including in
particular non-reschedulable arrears, subsequently rose by CFAF 5.5 billion
in 1990 to a level of CFAF 12.1 billion at year-end. The overall deficit
for 1990 remained close to that of 1989, despite the continuatlon of a
rigorous expenditure policy and an 11 percent increase in revenue (which at
9.7 percent of GDP was, however, still below program targets). The
improved revenue performance has, nonetheless, permitted salaries to be
paid on a current basis since early 1990.
11 Official national accounts estimates were recently revised downwards for
the 1982-90 period; the estimated level of uomiual GDP for 1989 in the new
national accounts series (the basis for the analysis in this report) is 9
percent below that of the old series and 16 percent less than program
projections.



11.       The 1989 current account deficit Improved dramatically to the
equivalent of 6.2 percent of GDP. compared with the target of 9 percent;
this improvement was, however, temporary, reflecting, as it did, an
unsustainable drop in imports and the accumulation of external arrears.
With import volumes returnlLg to more normal levels in 1990, the current
account deficit rose to 8.0 percent of CDP. The balance of payments showed
a major improvement in 1989, reflecting both the reduction in the trade
deficit (resulting from the large contraction of Imports and the
extraordinary performance of cotton exports), and the Increase in net
official inflows (which were substantial despite the shortfall) to finance
the program. With the new commercial banks pursuing an extremely prudent
policy in granting loans, the net foreign assets of the banking system rose
by CFAF 33 billion in 1989 and by CPAP 23.5 billion in 1990.
12.       Concerning structural reforms, significant improvements were
ach_eved in the area of investment programming in 1986-88; the Government
also implemented a large number of actions in resource mobilization, civil
service, public enterprise, banking, and trade policy reform and
deregulation prior to Board approval of SAL I.   Restoring the viability of
public sector finances was recognized to be the essential ingredient in re-
establishing macroeconomic balance and improving the allocation of
resources. Several measures aimed at im2roving resource mobilization had
been introduced beginning in 1987: the main import tariff was raised on a
number of products, low officially-fixed reference prices used to calculate
taxes on some products were increased and in some cases replaced with
c.i.f. values, the statistical tax on iwports was raised, and an advance
partial payment requirement was introduced for business taxes. These were
complemented in December 1988 by a numtr of measures aimed at improving
tax administration, including updatin, the valuation and assessment methods
for domestic and external taxes and introduction of a program of continuous
in-service training to upgrade staff skills.
13.       The momentum in the area of resource mobilization slowed down as
the Government soon after became preoccupied with meeting salary payment
demands to contain the mounting political crisis and, in part, because some
elements of the f.i 3cal reform program proved overly ambitious. Thus, for
examp,o, the introduction of the general expenditure tax, a key fiscal
reform, had to be postponed to May 1991 due to the longer preparatory
period needed for this fundamental restructuring of the tax system and to
the need to coordinate it with the more thorough reform of the main revenue
source, Import taxes, which was also delayed (para. 20). The introduction
of a computerized system for the management of customs clearance activities
at the Port of Cotonou (SYDONIA) was also postponed, but was initiated in
April 1991. Despite some effort to implement other measures aimed at
improving resource mobilization (e.g. strengthening the tax directorate),
revenue performance was the most disappointing aspect of the structural
adjustment program (para. 10).
14.       Significant corrective measures were also implemented in the
area of public employment beginning in 1986. As a result, expenditure on
wages and salaries was reduced from CPA? 45 billion in 1987 to CFAF 42
billion by 1988. Due to the combined effect of normal retirements and
other departures and the implementation of the civil service voluntary
departure program (which produced a total of 1,590 departures in 1989/90),



the size of the civil service was decreased by 5 percent between end-1988
and end-1990, resulting In a 4 percent reduction In the wase bill. Severe
underfunding of vital social spendina as a result of budgetary constraints
was partly remedied by the establisbment of a Social Fund In 1989 (par. )
to finance health and education sector non-salary recurrent expenditure,
with the support of the Health Services Development Project (Credit 2031-
BEN of May 1989). Expenditures on road maintenance continue to be
inadequate, despite the establishment (prior to SAL I) of a Road Fund in
the budget for this purpose. While implementation of the proposed
Agriculture Services Project will work to reduce the costs of providing
appropriate extension and research messages to farmers. it will remain
necessary to ensure that adequate budgetary resources are provided for
these purposes.
15.       Given the poor overall macroeconomic and public finance
situation, the 1989 portion of the three-year rolling public investment
program agreed with the Bank could not be executed as planned. Government
counterpart funding was insufficient, while the accumulation of arrears to
a number of foreign donors resulted in a freeze on disbursements to
important development projects; in addition, the deposits of public
enterprises and local government agencies frozen in the defunct banking
system could not be drawn upon to finance their Investment expenditures.
An appreciable level of non-prograxmed investment expenditures (i.e. in
excess of CFAP 1 billion per year) was registered in 1989 and 1990,
reflecting continued weaknesses in the execution of the investment program,
despite earlier reforms (para. 12).
16.       In the context of the IDA-assisted Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1748-BEN) approved in 1986, significant
progress had been achieved in inproviug the institutional framework,
liberalizing pricing decisions, and rationalizing the public enterprise
sector prior to the adoption of the structural adjustment program. A law
giving greater autonomy to enterprise maagers and boards of directors was
adopted in early 1988; a number of enterprise statutes were thereafter
modified to conform to the new framework. Restructuring efforts were
pursued for several enterprises in the context of projects financed by IDA
and other donors; as part of these efforts performance contracts were
established for two key enterprises in the utilities sector (the water and
electricity company, SBE, and the telecommunications company, OPT) in 1987
and 1988. Finally, 12 enterprises were liquidated and 5 privatized.
17.       Progress in rationalizing the public enterprise sector was
further extended under SAL I by the liquidation of an additional three
enterprises, the successful privatization of another three (MANUCIA,
cigarettes, SOBETEX, textiles, and SONACI, cement), the on-going effort to
privatize six more, and the completion of diagnostic studies for eight
others; these studies are now being used as the basis for further
privatization and rehabilitationlrestruct4ring efforts. Thus the
Government's portfolio, which included 60 industrial or commercial
enterprises at end-1986, was reduced to 29 at end-December 1990.
18.       The virtual collapse of the Beninese banking system in late 1987
was a major contributing factor In the Government's decision to embrace a
comprehensive adjustment program; a number of corrective measures which it



-a -
had implemented before then (e.g. overhauling the accounting system, re-
instatement of credit committees with BCEAO representation, taxing banks on
real as opposed to presumed profits) were incapable of providing a durable
solution to the fundamental problems afflicting the state-owned banks,
including the large share of non-performing loans in their portfolio (para.
5) and their illiquidity. By end-:L987 the economy's rediscount facility at
the Central Bank had been exhausted, the commercial bank (Banque
Comverciale du Benin) was unable to honor clients' requests for withdrawals
or external transfers, and temporary facilities outside the normal ceiling
had to be granted twice (CPA? 6.8 billion in January and CPAF 7.8 billion
in August 1988).
19.       Despite some delays, important progress was achieved in
restructuring the banking system under SAL I. The liquidation of the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) was completed in late 1990 and
the reorganization of the rural credit network is underway with the
assistance of the IDA-financed Rural Savings and Loan Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 2086-BEN of January 1990). After a long search for one or
more private partners to participate in the establishment of new comercial
banks, four banks are now operational and had collected a total of CFAF
42.9 billion in deposits by end-December 1990; the establishment of a
branch of a major foreign bank is still being pursued. The process of
liquidating the other two state banks is being accelerated and a recovery
unit to pursue collection of their outstanding assets has been set up.
However, the progress achieved in 1989 in reimbursing depositors whose
accounts were frozen in the banking system was significantly less than
expected, due to the public finance difficulties, the failure to use
allocated external assistance, delays in establishing the reimbursement
fund (the FIR), and the delayed response of small depositors in collecting
their reimbursements. The same is true of the reduction in Government
obligations to the BCEAO. much of which had been consolidated on favorable
terms following Bank and Fund initiatives. In the area of reinforcing the
supervisory and regulatory framework of the banking system, the creation of
the Banking Supervision Commission at the level of the UMOA has been a
major positive development.
20.       Concerning trade policy reform and deregulation, the Government
had, in July 1988, already removed all quantitative restrictions and
prohibitions on imports and replaced them with tariffs. Further, the state
monopoly on the import of consumer goods was abolished, the number of items
subject to price controls was reduced in late 1988 to 22 (from 66 in 1986
and 139 before then), and private operators were permitted to operate in
foodcrops and in commercial and industrial activities previously reserved
for the state. Deficiencies in the tariff reform study completed in late
1989 unfortunately delayed progress on the second stage of trade policy
reform, i.e. rationalizing the framework of industrial tariff protection
and import taxation. However, the Govermnent has now laid the basis for
implementing these reforms with the restoration of the import tax base to
the full c.i.f. value, accompanied by downward tariff rate adjustments in
February 1991 (pare. 70). After the transitional Government's assumption
of office in March 1990, there was an acceleration in the implementation of
a number of major policy reforms, i.e. the adoption of revised labor,
commerce, and industrial legislation in May 1990 and the adoption of a new
investment code in April 1990; passage of the subsidiary legislation



-   -
required to implement these reforms was however delayed until December 1990
and January/February 1991.
21.       Assossmet of Reforms.  The structural adjustment program was
the culmination of a slow and often difficult four-year policy dialogue and
as such reflected a major departure from the Government's previous
dirigiste economic policy orientation towards greater reliance on private
initiative and market forces. Given the difficult macroeconomic situation
and the importance of ensuring sufficient Government commitment, a large
number of actions was implemented before Board approval of SAL I. In the
event, the economic and financial context deteriorated markedly during the
first six months of the program, and by December 1989, in face of growing
political and social unrest, the situation was no longer conducive to the
implementation of far-reaching structural reforms. Despite the poor
overall performance, however, important progress was achieved in a number
of areas under SAL I, as explained above. The political crisis was
resolved when a transitional government was put in place in early 1990; as
a result, political and social conditions required for the implementation
of the adjustment program were re-established such that the specific
conditions for the release of the second tranche of SAL I were fulfilled by
June 1990. The newly elected government which assumed office on April 4,
1991 is in an even stronger position to internalize and implement the
reforms envisaged under the second structural adjustment program, having
been democratically elected on a platform of economic reform and social
renewal.
C.        Central Development Issues
22.       These fundamental changes in political and economic orientation
have created a new and more favorable basis for achieving the medium-term
objectives set forth in Benin's first structural adjustment program (para.
8). Indeed, the consensus developed during the February 1990 National
Conference on the necessity of pursuing the adjustment program should
enable the Beninese to address the deeper distortions and structural
deficiencies which have resulted from inappropriate policies pursued for
close to two decades. The immediate objective is to continue to create
the basis for restoring sustained growth in an acceptable social framework.
The sine qua non for restoring growth is public finance viability.
Progress made since last year has substantially alleviated the immediate
financial crisis (para. 10). The issue now is to mount a sustained effort
to mobilize fiscal resources while pursuing the medium-term objective of
reducing the size of the public sector of the economy. In recent years the
failure of the state-controlled economy led to an expansion of the informal
sector at the expense of formal sector activities, which has contributed to
widespread evasion of taxes and duties.
23.       Further growth will depend on creating the enabling environment,
including incentives, and institutions for the rapid expansion of the
private sector. The delayed restructuring of the banking system has had a
heavy toll on the economy, and the financial intermediation essential to
increasing private financial savings and domestic financing of investments
is still largely non-existent, although a basic deposit banking system is
now in place.  Much remains to be done in further liberalizing the economy



- o -
and ellminating the disincentives in the tax and tariff systems as well as
privatisfiglrestructuring the still mportant part of the economy dominated
by public enterprises.
24.       inadeauate administrative capacity and human resource
constraints are major longer-term development issues which must be
addressed in the adjustment process. The Beninese civil service is III-
adapted to the task of implemeting a wide-ranging reform and development
program based on the governmeat's new role as an efficient provider of core
public sector services In support of private sector development. Moreover,
the distortions in the education system have led to the creation of a
higher education establishment which graduates, at great cost, an
increasing number of poorly trained students who cannot be employed by the
private sector and can no longer be absorbed by a shrinking public sector.
25.       A serious constraint to development prospects concerns the
reduction in the competitiveness of the tradeable goods sector, which
limits the scope for agricultural export diversification and Benin's share
in regional transit trade. Terms of trade shocks in the 1980's, the
appreciation of the CPA franc, and domestic price trends have all
contributed to the economy's loss of competitiveness. Benin's geographical
proximity to Nigeria exacerbates the erosion of competitiveness; in recent
years the depreciation of the naira has led to a flood of Nigerian
manufactures, food and petroleum products into Benin's limited markets.
26.       The decline in per capita incomes over the past two years, a
growing level of unemployment and underemployment (especially among young
university graduates), and the neglect of critical social infrastructure
over the years, means that increased attention must be given to the social
dimensions of adiustment and poverty alleviation, in order to allow the
poor and vulnerable segments of society to share the benefits of economy
recovery and growth.
27.       The prospects for sustainable growth in Benin are limited by
increasing environmental degradation and a rapidly increasing population.
The deterioration of the country's natural resources threatens the future
of agricultural development, agro-ecological balances, and general living
conditions. These problems are exacerbated by increasing population
pressures, as the high growth rate and dependency ratios adversely affect
the scope for raising standards of living as well as savings needed to
flnance growth.
28.       The Government Intends to address the challenges described in
the preceding paragraphs during the next phase of its structural adjustment
program. Covering the 1991-93 period, the program will have the basic
objectives of creating the conditions for a sustainable recovery of
economic activity (including the restoration of competitiveness), leading
to a growth rate of close to 4 percent by 1993 (i.e. above the population
growth rate of 3.2 percent), and improving the provision of basic social
services while protecting the income levels of the most vulnerable groups.
The Government's Second Structural Adjustment Program, spelled out in the
Statement of Development Strategy at Annex V, describes the specific policy
measures It will implement to attain these objectives.



- 11 -
D.        Country Lendins Strategies and Priorities
29.       Bank Group Operationss As of end-March 1991, IDA commitments to
Benin (36 credits), net of cancellations, totalled US$ 372 million, of
which US$ 312.3 million were fully disbursed. The investment credits have
financed public sector management, agriculture and rural development,
energy, transport and telecomumications, industry and finance, urban
development, forestry, and social seetor development. One adjustment
operation (SAL I) has been approved for Benin to date. While IFC has thus
far not been active in Benin, IPC staff have recently advised on two
projects, with a view to its possible future participation with private
investors; IFC may also consider a possible participation in one of the new
commercial banks.
30.       Approximately 60 percent of IDA lending to Benin was approved
after 1982. As shown in Table 2, much of IDP assistance has been
concentrated In the agriculture and rural development (7 credits
representing 20 percent of total IDA credits) and transport and
telecommunication sectors (12 credits accounting for 33 percent of total
lending), involving traditional investment projects. In the area of public
sector management, IDA assistance has involved three technical assistance
projects and one public enterprise rehabilitation project. IDA involvement
in the health sector is fairly recent, with the only operation having been
approved in MY89. This involved extensLve reforms in health sector
management and programming and included a Social Fund to provide urgently
needed medical supplies and primary textbooks for the least privileged
areas of the country.
31.       Project Implementation: Before 1989, Benin's project
Implementation record was generally good. The implementation of SAL I and
some sector projects was constrained by the deteriorating macroeconomic
situation during the year (limiting the availability of counterpart funds)
and the administrative disruptions brought about by the political and
social crisis. In the transport sector, project implementation was
adversely affected by a lack of appropriate personnel, the freeze on
disbursements by certain donors, and irregularities in the procurement
process. In the social sectors, the public finance difficulties delayed
the effectiveness of the Health Services Development Project. The policy
dialogue in the agriculture and rural development sector has been generally
good, as evidenced by the success with cotton sector reforms. After the
transitional government's assumption of office, considerable progress was
made in furthering the macroeconomic policy dialogue with the preparation
of SAL II and in the education sector.
32.       Lending Stratesys The Bank's strategy in supporting Benin's
development objectives -- through a combination of economic and sector
work, lending, and aid coordination -- has closely reflected the evolution
of the policy dialogue with the Government. Prior to 1982 the Bank's
assistance strategy focused on financing traditional investment projects.
The broadened economic policy dialogue after that date led to a shift in
the assistance strategy towards support of macroeconomic management and
rehabilitation of key sectors, with a view to meeting the conditions for
initiating a comprehensive structural adjustment program. Thus the
economic and sector work emphasized public sector management issues and



- 12 -
01-4n1
Bmn: Table 2. Distrlibultn of IDA Ludlfg
SECTOR                             DATE OF  PFROVAL         ORIGINAL OEDIT AAW      PE     ACE VW
(US11 mlIIIn SWivalnt)  OF TOTAL LENDING
ADIaNT OPERATIONS                                                                          11.9
1.SALt I                                 29/                           4.00
PUBLIC SECTOR &AIAEN                                                                        7.8
1. Tef¶lcal Asslstanoe I               052/77                           1.70
2. TInlcol AsIlstac  11                021882                           8.00
3. TechIcal Assistanme III             1V l8                            5.0
4. PublIlc EntelW Ie ehabiI tatIon     12v/188                         15.00
ACRICUIIE 9 RUAL lEV'T.                                                                    19.7
1. Hlt4VI Agricultural Dev't.          02/1369                          4.95
2. Zou-Sorgcu Cotton                   02/172                           6.10
3. HINVI AWcultural Wvt. (SWI.)        08/2874                          0.60
4. Drgou P lnae Rural lv't.            0407/81                         20.00
5. Borgou Provirce lOai  evt.(SWl.)   04/1/88                           1.90
6. Zou Province iural Dsv't.           12/1/82                         20.00
7. Borgou ProvIno iraI Dsvt. II       02/18                           21.00
ENEDoY                                                                                     9.2
1. Pour EnglIner. 8 TednIcal Assist.    11/10/81                        1.82
2. S3  0llfIeldDev't. II              01A94                           18.00
3. Narnato ibiroelectrlc               0/8                             15.00
TRM T & TELEICNMICATI0NS                                                                  33.1
1. HlEny Uahntuiunc 6 eeiring          C9o070                           4.08
2. Seco  I$luy                         05/24/7                         11.80
3. Secon lH    (SIhMmtal)              08//76                           9.00
4. Feeder                                /M77                           5.50
5. Third HItuy                        11/087                          10.00
8. cotiw   Port                         /8/7                           19.30
7. Second FsadBr Road                  12V23/80                         7.00
8. Thlrd Feedr Road (%sc. FvId)        05/8                             6.00
9. ThIrd Feeder Roads                  0/84                             6.00
10. Fourth H1lmy                        05/14/81                        11.30
11. Tramup. Illfrast. Rehb. & Mlant.    M/8                             19.50
12. Teleco=lcations                     11/08/88                        16.00
IHD6TRY & FINAE                                                                            3.3
1. Irndstrlal Cweloant                 03/20/0                         10.00
2. Rural Savinp & iLa  Rehb.           01/30'90                         2.50
108AM                                                                                      4.0
1. Catr/Sanltatlon EIneerlng           OB/25/81                         5.00
2. Scord lRter S.ly                      0/8B                           10.00
FOPESIRY                                                                                    1.4
1. Forestry I ($msc. Fund)            O0821/84                          2.80
2. Forestry 1                          00/21/84                         2.60
SOCIAL SECTOR                                                                              9.7
1. Rural EGmatlon 8 TraIning           08/1975                          4.00
2. Sscon Edatlon                       0513/82                          14.00
3. Health Servioes Oev't.              i06./9                           18.00
TOTAL                                                                   379.03            100.0
-~~~~~                                       m
Source: IDA Statement of Develqemnt Credits, larchi 31 1991.
Note: Total debt  cel latlam swLnt to US$ 6.78 ml Ilion equlvalent.



- 13 -
sector efficiency issues, wbils the lending program included credits to
assist the rehabilitation of infrastructure and to oupport adjustment in
the parastatal sector and in the cotton sub-sector. Following the
advancement of the policy dialogue after 1988, the Bank's assistance
strategy was re-designed to make the SAL the centerpiece of IDA lending to
Benin and at the sectoral level tow i) assist in re-establishing the
international competitiveness of the cotton sub-sector, rehabilitating
secondary cash crops, and building food crops into an export earnert ii)
improve the relative competitiveness of the Benin corridor through
provision of lover cost and more efficient transit services+ iii) find
least-cost solutions to the problem of idle/underutilized industrial
plants, while simultaneously rationalizing the distorted system of
industrial incentives; and iv) raise the budgetary share of non-salary
recurrent expenditures in the social sectors and to improve the latter's
internal efficiency through selective re-orientation of their programs.
33.       Lending Operationss In line with this strategy, a first
Structural Adjustment Credit and a Health Services Development Project were
approved in FY89 and a Rural Savings and Loan Rehabilitation Project in
FY90. The newly-elected Government intends to fully implement the
stabilization and adjustment measures described in the second-year PFP and
further elaborated in its statement of development strategy. In support of
these policies, the Bank's lending program for PY91-95 consists of a second
SAL, two administrative capacity building projects, one sector adjustment
operation, six investment projects, and a regional energy operation for a
total of US$ 164 million. With SAL II, the Bank would support the
Government's objectives of establishing a sound basis for resuming growth
by reinforcing and deepening the adjustment effort of SAL I to address the
deep-seated nature of growth constraints in the Beninese economy. The
proposed SAL II is fully consistent with the policy framework described in
the PFP; it would place particular emphasis on fiscal discipline and
structural improvements in resource mobilization necessary to re-establish
a balance in public finances, banking system restructuring, deepening the
reforms already underway in the public enterprise sector, tariff reform,
deregulation and private sector promotion, and reform of the administrative
and educatWonal systems. The program would support the rehabilitation of
critical administrative and social infrastructure which have suffered from
years of neglect, as well as short-term actions to protect vulnerable
groups from the transitional costs of adjustment. It will also lay the
groundwork for medium-term policies designed to facilitate the
participation of the poor in the economy and in both the benefits and
production of economic growth.
34.       Bank support to further this latter objective, as well as to
strengthen Beninese Administrative capacity, would come from two projects
(in addition to SAL II), one of which is the Pre-Investment Project being
presented to the Board in parallel with SAL I$; the other, which would
finance technical assistance for economic management, would also provide
institutional strengthening and support to the relevant Government
ministries, with a rLew towards better monitoring of social indicators and
the incorporation of the latter into the design and assessment of economic
policies. in the lead productive sector, the Agricultural Services
Project, also being presented to the Board concurrently with SAL II, would
develop a national extension service, streamline rural development



e 14 -
agencIOs, and transfer Input supply to the private sector; these reforms
entail a reorientation of Benin's agricultural policies, vith a view to
maximizIng the sector's contribution to growth. IDA support for
Infrastructure sector policy reforms and maintenance of the road network
would continue through the supervision of an on-going operation Project,
and the tehabilitation of urban services and infrastructure would
contstitute an important new eomponent of future lending. increasing the
efficiency of energy use and expanding supply will be facilitated by the
proposed Power Rehabilitation and Extension Project (being presented to the
Board In parallel with SAL II), and power generation will be increased in
the context of an on-going regional project currently financed by ID.
Because further Investments in the education sector cannot be justified in
the absence of major sector policy reforms, the lending program envisages
support for a sector adjustment operation that would seek to rationalize
the allocation of human and financial resources and improve the quality and
relevance of education; the operation would provide budgetary support to
cover the additional recurrent expenditures which may be associated with
these reforms. IDA, in collaboration vith a number of non-governmental
organizations (EGO's) is presently financing pilot food security
interventions which, if successful, could be developed into a full-fledged
project to encompass issues related to poverty alleviation. Finally, the
lending program envisages IDA support to assist the Government in
Implementing policies that reconcile the lmperatives of developing
agriculture, forestry, and livestock with the need to arrest the
deterioration of Benin's natural resources and increasing environmental
degradation.
35.        The main risk of the lending strategy described above is that of
policy reform slippage 21, i.e. a weak domestic resource mobilization
effort, insufficient discipline in containing current expenditures and in
selecting projects for the public investment program, and failure to
implement other key reforms under the proposed SAL IT. Such a development
would result In a non-viable macroeconomic framework and discourage donors
fron providing the anticipated financing. Significant delays in disbursing
the second and third tranches of SAL II in excess of six months after the
expected date of tranche release would imply policy slippage, in which case
a core lending program would be adopted containing only those projects with
important capacity-building andlor long-term growth benefits, even under
leos than favorable macroeconomic conditions.
36.       Economic and Sector Works To increase the Bank's understanding
of long-term constraints to growth In Benin, and to take stock of the
policy changes being introduced, a Country Economic Memorandum will be
prepared, beginning In FY92. A Population Assessment Paper was recently
completed, and other priorities for economic and sector work include an
Education Strategy Paper (FY92), an Agriculture Sector Review (FY92), a
Transport Sector Strategy Note (FY92), and a Public Expenditure Review
(FY93).
2/ Additional risks Include terms of trade losses stemming from lower world
prices for key exports and shortfalls in expected external disbursements in
support of the adjustment program. These risks are discussed in Part III.



- 15 -
S.        ALd Coordination and ielations with the IMP
37.       The GoverAment'e decision to embrace a more comprehensive reform
program pemitted the policy dialogue to advance considerably; a first
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was discussed by the Bank and Fund Boards in
May/June 1989, and the first tranche under the three-year SAP program was
released (para. 8). While the Beninese authorities made progress
Inimplementing many of the structural meassures contained in the SAP
program, overall performance, and that of revenues in particular, was
significantly below expectations, as explained in section B above.
Discussions on the second-year PPP being presented to the Board in parallel
with SAL II, and on the second-year SAP program took place in July and
October 1990, January/February 1991 and April/May 1991. The program, which
incorporates the main features of SAL II and shares with it a common
macroeconomic framework, aims at a restoration of viable fiscal and balance
of payments positions, containing price and domestic cost Increases at
about 2.5 percent, and achieving an economic growth rate of 4 percent after
1993, in excess of population growth rate. Bank and Fund staff have
maintained a close working relationship during the preparation of SAL II
and the second-year SAP program.
38.       From fairly low levels in 1970-72, Benin now enjoys a highly
diversified flow of foreign aid, which currently finances more than 90
percent of the public investment program. Most of Bernin's other
multilateral and bilateral partners have provided co-financing for IDA
projects, including significant support for the structural adjustment
program. Next to IDA, the EEC is Benin's most important multilateral
donor. Regional aid institutions such as the African Development Bank and
Fund, the West African Development Bank, and the Arab aid agencies have a
growing presence as well. France remains the largest source of bilateral
assistance, but Switzerland, and other OECD countries including Germany and
Nomray also provide significant support. Since the adoption of the
structural adjustment program, the Bank has played a key role in
coordinating donor assistance to Benin. At the Bank's initiative, special
meetings were hold to mobilize additional financing for the structural
adjustment program in October 1989 and June and October 1990; another is
planned for June 1991. The Bank will assist the UNDP in organizing a
donors' Round Table meeting in late 1991 to mobilize financing for Benin's
medium-term public investment program, including additional social
projects. lenin became eligible in 1989 for balance of payments assistance
under the Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for debt-distressed African
countries. However, there were large shortfalls in expected SPA-i
disbursements in 1989 and 1990 due in part to the Goveranmert's failure to
meet agreed conditions for disbursement, but also because of serious
administrative difficulties in accumulating necessary documents in the face
of complex disbursement procedures (para. 10).
F.        Snuurv Assessment
39.       Foremost among the constraints to further adjustment process,
and thus to Benin's medium-term growth prospects, is the severe imbalance
In public finances. Restoring stability to public finance will require
rigorous implementation of the budgetary policies and fiscal reforms



- 16 -
described In the PPF and reflected in SAL IX. In the short term, this will
depend oan the Government's success in attaining a balance in the primary
current budget (i.e. before internal and external interest payments) and in
the medium term achieving a surplus in the overall current budget, thereby
ultimately eliminating Benin's need for exceptional financing.  The
evolution of these key variablee will measure the Government's progress in
restoring the basis for sustainable growth In Benin.
40.       To further these objectives, substantLal real increases in
budgetary revenues, averaging in excess of 12 percent per year will be
required over the 1991-93 period. This major resource mobilization effort
would result from% 1) the reorganization of the Ministry of Finance and
strengthening of tax and customs administration; ii) the implementation of
key fiscal reforms; and iii) the reform of the tariff structure (including
a lowering of rates) and other measures that would serve to decrease the
incentive for informal activity and illicit imports. Given the magnitude
of the imbalances in public finance, the revenue increases would need to be
buttressed by measures to limit and restructure current expenditures. A
key measure of success in this regard would be a reduction in the share of
personnel expenditure (wages, pensions, and scholarships) in total current
primary expenditure. Reducing personnel expenditures in real terms would
require a 16 percent reduction in the number of civil servants over the
program period (in addition to normal retirements) in the context of the
broader administrative reform; further reductions in nomilal wages would
not be politically feasible. The elimination of remaining payroll
irregularities (e.g. elimination of *ghostsl, payment by proxy, the use of
a cosmon registry of civil servants by the Ministry of Labor and the
Ministry of Finance, strict limitations on renewal of temporary contracts,
etc.) is also expected to contribute to a reduction in the wage bill. With
strong revenue performance and the containment of personnel expenditure,
the real increases in investment expenditure and expenditure on supplies
and material necessary for growth would then become possible.
41.       The extent to which the Government makes progress towards
creating an environment conducive to increased privats sector investments
will depend on continuing its divestiture efforts in the public enterprise
sector with a view to further reduction in the public sector's role in the
productive sectors, the implementation of structural reforms in the fiscal,
tariff, and industrial protection systems, continued restructuring of the
banking sector, and on deepening the liberalization measures initiated
under SAL I. To enhance its capacity to fulfill its new role as an
efficient provider of core public services, the Government would need to
mplement the administrative and civil service reforms envisaged under the
program. Finally, it will be necessary to implement the measures aimed at
a far-reaching reform of the educational system in order both to increase
the system's relevance to a private-sector based economy, and to provide
Increased educational opportunities for the vast majority of Beninese who
reside in the rural areas.



- 17 -
PART II - THE SAL It PROGRAM. 1991-93
42.       The objectives of the Government's Second Structural Adjustment
Program (para. 28) are tot i) raise real GDP growth in excess of the
population growth rate to close to 4 percent by 1993s ii) contain the rate
of increase of domestic costs and prices, as measured by the GDP deflator,
to less than 3 percent in order to improve the competitiveness of the
economy given the fixed exchange rate arrangementss and iii) accelerate the
return to a viable balance of payments position by pursuing policies to
expand exports and substitute for imports in order to limit the current
account deficit to the equivalent of 9 percent by 1993 (from a projected 11
percent in 1991), eliminating all external payments arrears, and increasing
the net foreign assets of the banking system.
43.       The proposed SAL II vould deepen and expand the reforms
initiated under SAL I throught i) reforms in the fiscal system to improve
resource mobilization and contain; ii) the administrative restructuring of
key ministries and a revised program of civil service departures; iii)
pursuit of the financial system restructuring and establishing an
appropriate judicial and supervisory framework for sound financial
intermediation; iv) rationalization of the public enterprise sector through
further divestitures, privatizations, and improvements in the finsncial
performance of enterprises remaining in the government portfolio; v)
further improvements in the trade regime and in the incentive structure for
private investments; and vi) short-term measures to protect vulnerable
groups. It would also contain, as important new elements: i) an urgent
rehabilitation program for critical administrative and social
infrastructure; and ii) measures to lay the basis for the more thorough
reform of the educational system which may be supported by a sector
adjustment operation.
A.        Public Finance and Reform of the Fiscal System
44.       A critical target in this area is to generate an equilibrium in
the Government's primary current operations in 1991, with a surplus
approaching 3 percent of GDP by 1993; the overall deficit would decline
from the equivalent of 9.7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 6.4 percent by 1993.
The program's public finance and fiscal component places particular
emphasis on: i) short-term improvements in revenue collection through the
strengthened application of the existing tax system and improvements in tax
and customs administration; ii) restraining and restructuring current
expenditures and providing adequate resources for priority social and
economic expenditures; iii) ensuring an adequate level of counterpart
funding for the public investment program; iv) reforming the fiscal system
and tax administration in order both to increase resource mobilization and
rationalize the system of tax incentives; v) reinforcing budgetary and
accounting procedures; vi) further restructuring and reductions in the size
of the civil service; vii) eliminating domestic and external payments
arrears and viii) financing a rehabilitation program of critical
administrative and social infrastructure.
45.       Resource Mobilization:  Achieving the deficit reduction targets
would require an improvement in the revenue/GDP ratio from 9.7 percent in



- 18 -
1990 to 10.6 percent in 1991 and to 12.3 percent by 1993, close to the
average achieved in the 1980'st these targets imply average real increases
of 12 percent over the program period. Given the Important changes which
have occurred in the tax base in the recent past (as a result of the
collapse of the banking system, the closure of a number of public
enterprises, and the expansion of the informal sector), a reform of fiscal
legislation and the strengthening of revenue administration will be
essential to the attainment of these objectives. Building on the efforts
begun in this connection under SAL I, the program Incorporates detailed
action plans for improving the efficiency of the tax and customs
directorates, with the support of external technical assistance.
46.       The short-term revenue improvements would result from the strict
implementation of existing tax regulations, reinforcement of border
controls to reduce the volume of illicit imports from neighboring
countries, and the provision of adequate operating resources to tax
collection agencies. The measures put in place in February 1991 revoking
the 1989 decision to reduce to 70 percent the c.i.f. value of imports
subject to import duties are also expected to generate additional revenues
in the short term, as should the improved socio-political climate and the
increased confidence to which it has given rise. An increase in lmport-
related revenue is expected to result from the projected sharp recovery of
Imports following the large contraction in 1989. Public corporations in a
position to do so will make regular contributions to the budget on debt
service payments which have been rescheduled.  As in 1990, Covernment
revenue will be supplemented by an amount of CPA? 3.4 billion in proceeds
from the sale of a number of public enterprises. In the medium term,
revenue collection should also benefit from the continued implementation of
the IMF-assisted tax action program which aims to simplify the tax system,
adapt it to the informal sector, eliminate fiscal fraud, and strengthen tax
administration.
47.       An important element of the fiscal system reform concerns the
introduction in May 1991 of a general expenditure/turnover tax which has
replaced a range of low-yield consumption taxes which were difficult to
administer. Additional tax measures to be implemented includes elimination
in 1991 of all customs and domestic tax exemptions enjoyed by parties
holding government contracts, including foreign financed projects; and
elimination of contributions to the National Investment Fund also In 1991.
In view of the large expansion of illegal petroleum product mports from
Nigeria, a diagnostic study of the taxation of and the distribution system
for petroleum products was completed in May 1991 and the recommendations
will be implemented beginning in October 1991.
48.       The strenathenina of the tax and customs directorates is already
being supported by France, the Fund and other donors. An organizational
audit of the Ministry of Finance (carried out with assistance from France)
to serve, in particular, as the basis for restructuring the custo&s
directorate, was completed in May 1991; the audit also addresses staffing
issues that now impede effective revenue collection, and its
recommendations will be fully implemented by end-1991. A revised incentive
system linked to performance in terms of revenue collection is being
introduced for the Ministry, and a computerized system for the management
of customs activities (Sydonia) was introduced in April 1991. In order



- 19 -
both to contribute to a more accurate assessment of import duties and to
Improve import statistics, an expatriate private firm was selected to
Implement a system for the pro-shipment inspection of Imports which became
operational in February 1991. Finally, adequate budgetary allocations will
be provided to ensure staff training and to increase the resources
available to the tax and customs directorates.
49.       The measures to strengthen budgetar   and accounting procedures
initiated in 1989 and 1990 will be strengthened. Government procurement
regulations will be reviewed and revised as necessary by end-1991, and a
Government comsission to conduct this review is currently operational.
Technical assistance has already been secured to revise the present
budgetary nomenclature, and measures bave been itcluded in the 1991 finance
law to accelerate the process of budgetary unification and to strengthen
budget preparation, esecution, and monitoring. Specific measures will also
be put in place to improve the accounting system and the management of the
tre&sury.
50.       Current Expenditures:  Given the revenue constraints over the
adjustment period, the program will aim at a stabilization in real terms of
primary expenditures and a better balance between personnel expenditures
(salaries, pensions, and scholarships) on the one hand, and expenditure on
material and supplies, notably in the social sectors (education and
health), on the other.   Agreement has already been reached with the
Government to stabilize the level of scholarships in the 1991 budget to the
level awarded in 1990, and on a plan for controlling scholarships awarded
after 1991. Beginning in 1991, adequate budgetary resources will also be
allocated for government utility consumption. The objective ould be to
reduce primary expenditure from the equivalent of 10.9 percent of GDP in
1990 to 9.6 percent by 1993, with personnel expenditure declining from 8.4
percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.9 percent by 1993; the share of personnel
expenditure in total primary expenditure would decline from a four-year
high of 80.9 percent in 1989 to 71.7 percent by 1993. The projected
decline in the wage bill will result from limited recruitment (i.e. 1 hiree
per three retirees or departees in the interim per'Ld before new staffing
plans are put in place), normal retirements, and a new program of civil
service departures to be financed by donors, based on organizational audits
of key ministries. Compared to the level of June 1990, the program aims at
a net reduction of 16 percent in the civil service over the program period
(paras. 56-58). Prior to the release of the second and third tranches of
SAL II, the Government will reach agreement with IDA on the budgetary
allocations to be appropriated in the 1992 and 1993 budgets for the
agricultural, education, and health sectors as well as for road maintenance
and Government consumption of public utilities.
51.       Esxenditure Arrearss An important bottleneck to the sucnessful
management and stabilization of Benin's public finances is the large stock
of domestic arrears. At end-December 1990, these were estimated at CPAF 41
billion for goods and services; an accurate assessment of the true amount
of wage arrears resulting from nonpayment of certain promotions and



- 20 -
allowances is not yet available 31. The revenue constraints mean that
it would not be possible to settle the full stock of domestic arrears
through cash payments. The Government therefore intends to offer a menu of
financially-equivalent options to creditors in order to eliminate them over
time. These would include consolidation over a long period, or over a
shorter period with a discount, or conversion into equity in public
enterprises. Pending the detailed elaboration of these options and a full
inventory of the existing stock of arrears (currently being undertaken by
two separate government commissions), net settlement of these arrears will
be limited to CFAF 3.3 billion in 1991 and CFAP 5.0 billion each in 1992-
93.   The Government will seek to eliminate all external arrears Which
could not be cleared in 1989 and 1990 and which cannot be rescheduled; this
would require payments of CRAP 12.1 billion in 1991. Discussions are
underway with a view to arranging a possible buy-back operation for arrears
on short-term external debt (incurred by recourse to lines of credit opened
by foreign financial institutions to former state banks now under
liquidation), to be financed by donors involved in the rehabilitation of
the banking system, possibly with assistance from the IDA debt reduction
facility.
52.       Rehabilitation Program: The economic and financial crisis has
led to the neglect of critical social and administrative infrastructure
over the years with negative repercussions on the Government's ability to
provide essential educational, health, and administrative services. To
address the situation, budgetary allocations for 1991 and 1992 are foreseen
to finance the required expenditures.   The program would include the
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and the purchase/repair of
equipment critical to the improved delivery of priority health and
education services (e.g. repair of primary schools, equipment for clinics,
etc.). It would have a visible short-term impact and would involve one-
time expenditures over 1 1/2 years with minimal additional recurrent cost
implications for the central government budget; expenditures for future
maintenance would be provided to the maximum extent possible from local
government and beneficiary contributions. Agreement has been reached on
the specific expenditures to be financed under this program and the
modalities for its implementation.
53.       Public Investment: Reflecting a growth strategy based on
increased private sector involvement, public investments over the program
period will be channeled into areas supportive of increased investments by
the private sector. In addition to the rehabilitation expenditures
described in para. 52, the increases in public investment projected for the
program period will finance projects in infrastructure rehabilitation,
agricultural extension and rural development, water and electricity, and in
health and education; the content of the 1991-93 PIP has been reviewed and
approved by the Bank. This most recent PIP review indicates major
weaknesses in the programing and monitoring process; with the sup?ort of
3/ In addition, three months of salary arrears were incurred in 1988. In
December 1990 one month of these arrears was settled; due to the shortage
of available resources, the Government has made a decision to postpone the
payment of the remaining two months, at least for the duration of the
program period.



- 21 -
the Pre-Investment Project, imp'ovements can be expected beginning in late-
1991.
54.       Vith annual investments aver&ging CFAF 46 billion, the public
investmentIGDP ratio is expected to approach 8 percent by the end of the
program period, and the ratio of public to private investment would decline
from 1.8 in 1990 to 1.3 by 1993; central government investment expenditures
would average 5.5 percent of GDP over the period. In response to the
liberalization measures, improved incentive structure, and better financial
intermediation, private sector investments are expected to increase
significantly over the program period, such that the overall investment/GDP
ratio would rise from 9 percent in 1989 to 14 percent by 1993. Given the
financial constraints facing the Government and the existing debt service
burden, more than 90 percent of the public investment program vill continue
to be financed by external grants and highly concessional loans.
Nonetheless, efforts will be strengthened to ensure that the Government's
contribution to the PIP is increased over the period; to this end the
Government's counterpart contribution is included in the definition of the
primary budget whose stabilization (with eventual surpluses) is a prime
objective of the program.   A more exhaustive programming of government
counterpart funding for externally-financed projects, and of recurrent
costs, will also be put in place and will be aided by work underway to
unify the investment and recurrent budgets (para. 49).
55.       The system of three-year rolling public investment programs and
monitoring of project execution adopted under SAL I will be strengthened.
For this purpose the IDA-financed Pre-Investment Project will provide the
financial and technical support necessary for preparing bankable projects,
conducting feasibility studies, and improving the programming and
monitoring process. New arrangements for ensuring adequate coordination
between the Ministry of Planning and the line ministries were adopted in
December 1990. The revised and more simplified public procurement code to
be adopted before release of the second tranche of SAL II is expected to
improve the rate of execution of the PIP, especially in the transport and
infrastructure sectors. Finally, increased accountability in investment
budgeting will be facilitated by subjecting all donor-financed projects and
other government contracting operations to normal tax and customs
arrangements (para. 47). As under SAL I, the content of the PIP will be
reviewed annually with the Bank and the rate of execution discussed on a
quarterly basis; the release of the second and third tranches of SAL II
would be contingent on agreement on the 3-year PIP.
B.        Administrat.ve Reform and the Civil Service Reduction Program
56.       The civil service voluntary departure program (PDV) introduced
in 1989 was one of the most successful components of SAL It by end-December
1990, 1,590 civil servants had left the civil service on a voluntary basis
with well-funded compensation packages, contributing to the 4 percent
decline in the wase bill (on a full-year basis) since end-1988. The
program, however, was carried out without the benefit of a prior assessment
of the organizational structure and staffing needs of various ministries;
as a consequence, some civil servants that were needed in the social
services chose to leave. A continuation of this trend would risk creating



- 22 -
shortages in these areas. The program (financed entirely from European
Development Fund resources) also proved to be extremely costly (an average
of CFAF 2.5 million per departee) and for that reason also cannot be
continiued on the present basis. Under SAL II, the program has been
redesigned both to reduce its cost and to situate it in the wider context
of a far-reaching reform of Beninese public administration aimed at
enabling it to fulfill its new role as an efficient provider of core public
services in support of private sector development.
57.       The new civil service reduction program (including the army)
will be based on organizational audits of all ministries, Including a
detailed examination of budgetary positions, with a view to improving staff
utilization and functions; the positions of departing civil servants would
be eliminated. Combined with normal retirements and limited new
recruitment, the program aims at a 16 percent reduction in the civil
service over the 1991-94 period (from 50,000 civil servants at end-1990 to
42,000 by end-1994), with a minimum of 2,000 departures per year. The
program's first phase (1991), would include a significant number of
departures from the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
(MDRAC) and its provincial agencies the CARDER's; based on an assessment of
organizational and staffing needs completed in the context of the
preparation of the proposed Agricultural Services Project, over 2,000
permanent staff positions in the MDRAC and the CARDER's are to be
terminated. The first phase may also include approximately 400 military
departures to be financed with financial assistance from the French
Government, and would seek to clear the backlog of previous applicants to
the earlier PDV (provided this would not iply replacing the departing
civil servants). The organizational audit for the Ministry of Finance was
completed in May 1991, while that of the Ministry of Education will be
completed by September 1991; this second group, in addition to the MDRAC
and the military, would be the source of the 1992 departures. The
Government recently completed a staff redeployment exercise in the Ministry
of Health (based on previous assessments under the Health Services
Development Project) involving more that 800 medical and para-medical
staff, and will complete an audit of the ministry by September 1991.
Audits of other key ministries would be carried out in 1992. The pace of
the targeted civil service reduction and the associated savings in the wage
bill would depend on the timely availability of external resources to
finance the severance payments. These are provisionally estimated at CFAF
15.2 billion in 1991-94 (an average of CPAF 1.9 million per departing civil
servant) and will be discussed with donors during the June 1991 donors'
meeting and at the Geneva Roundtable later in the year. Until the new
staffing plans are fully effective, a restrictive recruitment policy will
be implemented, such that only one person would be hired for every three
retirees/departees.
58.       The organizational audits would also redefine various
ministries' functions and assignments and produce revised organigrams where
necessary. As under SAL I, the rationalization of government personnel
management will continue, including staff development and training. With a
view to reinforcing budgetary controls, closer coordination between the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (responsible for managing the civil
service) and the Ministry of Finance will be put in place. A single
registry of civil servants (replacing two separate ones maintained by the



- 23 -
Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Finance) will be produced, with a
view to establishing a new pay scale for the civil service. Finoa lal
reatructuring measures will also be Implemented for the National Retirement
Fund (PNRB) and the Beninese Social Security Office (OBSS). A review of
the present civil service statute is presently underway to recomend
amendments to clarify the status of the various categories of civil
servants.
C.        Reform of the Financial System
59.       The restructuring of the financial system will continue to be a
critical component of the structural adjustment program. Building on the
progress made under the first SAL. financial sector reform under SAL II
will involves i) completing the liquidation of the state-owned banks; ii)
the partial reimbursement of depositors whose assets were frozen in the
banking system; iiI) strengthening the reorganized rural credit network
(i.e. the rural savings and loans institutions which were previously
affiliates of the CNCA) and extending the banking system restructuring to
cover the Postal Checking System (CCP) and the National Savings Fund (CNE);
iv) addressing the legal constraints and other impediments to the efficient
functioning of the restructured banking system; and v) general
reinforcement of the supervisory and regulatory framework of the banking
system.
60.        The Government is now accelerating the liquidation of the state
banks. A court-appointed liquidator has already been given this task, and
liquidation procedures for the CNCA were completed in late 1990; a joint
recovery unit, supported by expatriate technical assistance, was
established in September 1990 to pursue the recovery of loans extended by
the three state banks. Of their total assets of ClAP 157 billion at end-
June 1990, four-fifths were classified as non-recoverable; the balance of
about ClAP 20 billion is expected to be recovered over a four-year period
with the proceeds being used to reimburse depositors. By end-December
1990, CPAP 3.4 billion had been recovered. A review of operations and
management of the recovery unit will be carried out with the assistance of
the Bank by end-September 1991, with a view to accelerating the recovery
and finalizing the liquidations now underway. The Reimbursement Pund (FIR)
has drawn up a plan for the reimbursement of priority deposits in the
banks, the CCP, and the CNE, for the 1991-94 period. The plan is based on
externally-financed reimbursements of ClAP 20 billion which, in addition to
the CFAF 9 billion of reimbursements in 1989-90, would represent about 43
percent of frozen private deposits at end-1989. Excluding the
reimbursements effected in 1989-90, this would require external resources
of ClAP 5 billion per year in 1991-94. Reimbursements in excess of these
amounts will depend on the success of tht recovery effort.   Priority will
be given to the reimbursement of small savers, small and medium
enterprises, social organizations, public enterprises whose liquidation has
been delayed by the lack of funds to finance severance payments, Investment
project units, and embassies.
61.       Reorganization of the rural credit network commenced in 1990 in
the context of the Rural Savings and Loan Rehabilitation Project financed
by IDA and other donors. The project provides for: I) institutional reform
and restructuring of the existing savings and loan cooperatives; ii) the



- 24 -
restoration of cooperative members' savings and equity; 11i) the training
of cooperative administrators and staffs and iv) the establishment of an
accounting and financial control system.  Its implementation will assist in
transforming the rural credit network into a better managed, more
efficient, and financially viable system run independently of government
administrative structures.
62.       As of December 1989, the Government's liabilities to the central
bank resulting from the liquidation of the defunct banks amounted to CFAP
57 billion. Agreement was reached in September 1989 with the BCEAO
providing for the rescheduling of the amounts due from the BBD and the CNCA
(CFAF 45 billion) on concessional terms agreed to by the BCEAO's Board of
Directors in June 1989; the remaining liabilities to the BCEA0 of CFAP 12
billion result mostly from loans granted to the BCB. Since the latter is
now being liquidated, and in view of the fiscal situation, the program also
envisages the consolidation of that balance on terms consistent with the
Government's capacity tc pay; such rescheduling would be an important
element in the overall financing package. In 1990, the Government exceeded
the statutory ceiling on net advances from the BCEAO since exceptional
advances were not repaid as scheduled; repayment of these advances will
probably have to be rescheduled agin in view of prevailing financial
constraints. The Government's ability to honor its obligations to the
BCEAO over the program period will depend on the availability of adequate
amounts of external financial assistance.
63.       Three new private coamercial banks have been established since
October 1989 (plus the Financial Bank, another privately-owned bank
established in 1988). A necessary condition for providing the incentives
required for the new banks to fulfill their function of financial
intermediation is an appropriate legal framework, especially for loan
recovery.   Existing arrangements in Benin are not responsive to the needs
of a non-statist banking system, and respect for financial contracts is
lacking. A top priority of the reforms to be introduced in this regard
would be in the area of judicial procedures for obtaining guarantees and
collateral, land title arrangements and records, and the nomination of new
magistrates. Based on a study of other deficiencies and bottlenecks in the
judicial system completed in May 1991, the Government will prepare a
detailed program of reforms to be implemented prior to release of the
second tranche of the credit. The soundness and sustainability of the new
banking system will hinge on reinforcing the supervisory and regulatory
framework. In this connection the interest rate structure has been
rationalized as part of the recent BCEAO reforms, and the creation of the
Banking Commission at the level of the UMOA has been a major positive
development.
64.       The new banks have already collected a sizeable amount of
deposits (ClAP 43 billion by end-December 1990); they could, in time,
assure adequate and sound financial intermediation for the Beninese
economy. Yet, the development of efficient credit markets requires that
the Government refrain from intervening in the sector and allow the banks
to allocate their resources freely. Access to credit is likely to remain
limited for some time, but is critical to the resumption of private sector
activity. A start has now been made in strengthening existing cooperative
savings institutions in the rural areas, but new initiatives may be needed



- 25 -
for small and medium-scale enterprises mhose access to credit remains
severely limited. In this connection, the crelit scheme under the UNDP-
financed employment promotion and small enterprise project (CePEPE) will
need to be redesigned to ensure that financial discipline would be
maintained and to establish appropriate modalities for the management of
lines of credit to small and medium-scale enterprises (para. 73).
D.        Public Enterprise Reform
65.       Beginning in 1986 with the IDA-financed Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Project, and subsequently under the first SAL, the
Government has made considerable progress in its efforts to increase the
efficiency of the public enterprise sector (paras. 16-17). However, a
solution to the problems of a number of key enterprises which occupy
strategic positions in the cement, sugar, and oil palm sectors, must still
be put in place. Further, the financial position of some enterprises has
subsequently deteriorated, and effective monitoring of enterprise
performance and investment activity remains inadequate. Thus, in addition
to pursuing the restructuring efforts through further divestitures and
liquidations, SAL II will also focus on improvements in enterprise-
government and enterprise-enterprise financial relations.
66.       A number of diagnostic studies and assessments of sale value
have been completed over the past two years and will serve as the basis for
the restructuring program to be pursued under SAL II. The plan of action
agreed to with the Government calls for: i) accelerating the completion of
the 15 liquidations already underway; ii) the privatization/divestiture of
10 41 enterprises; iii) diagnostic/market studies of four enterprises
and Implementation of agreed reconmendations 51; iv) the
liquidationldismantling of two enterprises 61; and v) a financial audit
of one enterprise (SCO). The privatization of another cement company, the
SCB, is expected to be completed by July 1991; in the absence of acceptable
offers, the Government will also Implement by end-September 1991
appropriate solutions for the six transport companies for which bids were
Issued in early 1990. The procedures for the privatization process
adopted by the Government in 1988 will continue to be rigorously applied
and strengthened, vith an emphasis on increasing their transparency.
41 Usine de Noiz de Cajou, Maiserie de Bohicon, SEB, Usine de Concentre de
Tomates, Usine de Jus de Fruits, la Beninoise, SSS, SCO, SOCOGIM, and
so$ICOG.
51 OSS, SONACOP, SONAR, and SITEX.
i1 ClBF and COBEM.



- 26 -
67.       Given the weight of the Societe Sucriere de Save (SSS) and the
Societe des Clments d'Onigbolo (SCO) in the public enterprise sector 71
and their serious financial difficulties over the years, the Government is
currently pursuing discuselons on appropriate privatization strategies for
these two enterprises with the Nigerian Government which is a the co-owner.
As a first step, the Government In early 1990 removed the former lease
management company and put In place an Interim administration to maintain
the physical plant at SSS. Results of an economic and financial analysis
of the SSS completed in August 1990 showed that the enterprise would be
viable on a sunk-cost basis. This analysis will be updated before the
company is privatized through a lease management contract. The diagnostic
study of S00 completed In June 1989 also recomended its privatization
through a lease-management contract, assuming continued access to the
Nigerian markets as the financial situation of SCO has further deteriorated
since then, a financial audit carried out by an international firm will be
launched by June 1991. AMother major enterprise recommended for
privatization is SONICOG (paln products, edible oils and fats); the
Government has studied the various options for doing so and has agreed on
an appropriate privatisation strategy with the Bank to be fully implemented
before release of the third tranche of the credit. The financial situation
of another important enterprise, SONACOP (petroleum products distribution)
has deteriorated markedly over the years. as a consequence of the loss of
market share to illicit gasoline imports from Nigeria (where gasoline is
subsidized). Short-term corrective measures (e.g. strengthening border
controls) have been put in place to address this situation, and an in-depth
diagnostic study of the petroleum distribution and taxation system,
including SOMACOP, was completed in May 1991, with the agreed
recommendations to be implemented beginning in October 1991.
68.       The maritime company, COBENAM, will be divested of its
coimercial activities by February 1992, and the Government will pursue its
integration into a regional maritime consortium before end-December 1992;
in the absence of the establishment of such a consortium. the Government
plans to liquidate COBEANA. The CNBF (freight) will also be liquidated
before end-December 1991, and its data collection activities and control of
international transportation arrangements will be transferred to the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport. The monopoly of the government-owned
insurance company, SONAR, will be eliminated and private insurance
regulations will be adopted by February 1992. Finally, the Government will
adopt, in consultation with the Bank and 21W, financial restructuring
measures for the secial security agency, OBSS, before December 1991; no
financial transfers (including reimbursements of its frozen deposits) will
be made to the OBSS prior to finalization of an action plan to implement
these measures.
69.       The Government will redouble its efforts to improve the
management and performance of the limited number of strategic enterprises
rmaining in the public sector, with a view to increasing their
1/ The 88S and SCO accounted for almost half of Benin's scheduled debt
service payments and 27 percent of the stock of debt (DOD) in 1988; they
accounted for almost 80 percent of the stock of debt in the public
enterprise sector.



- 27 -
contribution to growth. To this end, the monitoring system introduced in
June 1989 to track appropriate Indicators that permit performance reviews,
will Le improved and the system computerized; enterprise monitoring will be
facilitated by the submission of full reports to the Ministry of Industry,
Energy, and Public Enterprises on a trimester basis. Although CPAP 12
billion of public enterprise-Government cross-debts were offset in 1989,
new cross-debts have emerged, which will be assessed during the program
period. An inventory of enterprise-enterprise cross debts was produced in
April 1991 and an action plan developed to settle them. New legislation
providing more autonomy for enterprises of a social, cultural, or
scientific character will be adopted by end-September 1991. The
rehabilitation of most major enterprises remaining in the public sector is
being monitored in the context of externally-financed sector
projects 8f. Existing enterprise-Government performance contracts and
enterprise statutes will be reviewed in 1991 and amended, as necessary,
before June 1992, to facilitate fulfillment of contractual obligations,
regular and more comprehensive monitoring of enterprise performance, as
well as to bring them in conformity with the legal framework for public
enterprises amended in 1988. Public enterprise investments will continue
to be closely monitored and reviewed in the context of the annual
discussions between the Government and the Bank on the public investment
program.
S.        Trade Policy Reform, Deregulation, and Private Sector Promotion:
70.       As the state progressively divests itself of involvement in the
productive sectors, the privrite sector must expand its activities to ensure
future growth. However, private sector involvement in the industrial
sector has been discouraged by the regulatory framework and tariff
structure developed over the past decade. SAL TI would further deepen the
progress made under the SAL I in addressing this situation (para. 20) by
rationalizing the structure of industrial incentives and reforming the
tariff structure in a manner consistent with the program's revenue
objectives. Based on a revised tariff reform study completed in September
1990, and on the recent technical adjustments to tariff rates carried out
in the context of restoring the import tax base to 100 percent of the
c.i.f. value (para. 46), an action plan has been developed with a view to a
two-phased implementation of the necessary reforms in 1991 and 1992. The
new tariff schedule calls for a single composite ad valorem import tax
which would replace all existing taxes on imports (with the exception of
the general expenditure tax and the PCS, levied by member states of the
CEAO). Although the exact number and levels of rates will only be
determined after further analysis of experience under the 1st phase of
reform (by end-December 1991), provisionally a maximum of four rates have
been retained, the most important of which would be a standard rate applied
to all goods for which there is no particular reason to set a higher or
lower rate than normal. A number of industrial goods currently produced in
S/ This is true of the water and electricity parastatal, SBEE, the office
of post and telecommunications, OPT, the agricultural promotion parastatal,
SONAPRA, the Seme petroleum project, the port of Cotonou (PAC), and the
Benin-Niger Railway (OCBN).



- 28 °
Benin (and their close substitutes) would be afforded temporary protection
(i.e. subject to a high rate) for a period of t .ree years, after which time
the tariff will be adjusted downwards to the standard rate. Remaining
taxes on exports will be eliminated as part of the tariff reform in 1992.
Implementation of the new tariff structure and the general expenditure tax
(para. 46) over the 1991-92 period vill together constitute a significant
improvement in the incentive structure for private investments in the
industrial sector.
71.       Import licensing requirements for the bulk of Beninese imports
(from franc 2.one, EEC, and ACP countries) were liberalized under SAL I,
under SAL II this measure will be extended to remaining imports before
February 1992. Given the need to strengthen export performance, the
Government will closely monitor che competitiveness of the economy; a
comprehensive study of factor costs and other determinants of
competitiveness (including the regional aspects), to be financed by the
Bank, will be initiated by July 1991 and an action plan developed to
promote exports. The Government has already taken the decision to
liberalize the insurance and transport sectors (para. 68) and will examine
the feasibility of introducing a system of competitive bidding for
government services such as maintenance of public buildings and waste
disposal. Before the release of the second tranche of the proposed credit,
the Government and the Bank will exchange views on the implementation of
the investment code, and the labor and commercial laws, with a view to
assessing the need for any additional amendments and implementing them
before release of the third tranche.
72.       Significant progress had been achieved in the area of price
decontrol prior to the adoption of the SAL I (para. 20). In order to
introduce even greater flexibility into the business environment and
facilitate the functioning of markets, the Government will reduce the
number of items subject to prior approval for price increases and to
controlled profit margins from 22 to 4 by June 1991. Price controls on a
number of these products were in the past maintained by the Government for
the purpose of protecting domestic industries rather than as guarantees
that the real incomes of vulnerable groups will not be adversely affected
by price increases. The Government now recognizes that the objective of
providing transitional protection for key domestic industries is more
efficiently pursued in the context of tariff policy, and that these
controls were ineffective in achieving its social objectives since many of
the goods involved are imported through informal sector channels where
existing regulations are circumvented.
73.       in order to promote small- and medium-scale enterprises (SME's),
and to assist those leaving the civil service and new university graduates
to identify, prepare, and carry out new projects, an employment and
enterprise promotion unit has been set up with the assistance of the UNDP.
The project will be redesigned to clearly identify a suitable target group
and to ensure the establishment of appropriate modalities for the
management of the proposed line of credit to SME's; the project, once
appropriately redesigned, is expected to receive financial assistance from
a number of donors, including IDA. Promoting SHE's will also require
additional efforts to bring informal sector activity into the mainstream of
the economy. Given the role of this sector in regional trade, the



- 29 -
competitiveness study referred to above (pare. 71) would also provide the
analysis required to formulate appropriate policies for this purpose. The
fiscal reform already underway, and those being introduced under the
program (paras. 47-48) are expected to sigi.iicantly reduce the incentives
for informal activity.
P.        Education Sector Reform
74.       The need for a toorientation of Benin's education sector
policies, evident for some time now, has assumed an added degree of urgency
as a consequence of events in 1989 and early 1990 (including, in
particular, the loss of a full school year due to strikes by teachers and
students): upon the re-opening of schools in April 1990, primary school
enrollments, which in the past have been of the order of 60 percent of the
school-age population, had suffered a considerable reduction. In effect,
many students with the financial means were enrolled in educational
establishments in neighboring countries. The 1990191 school year was
lengthened in an effort to make up for the lost time. The education
sector's ability to produce a labor force suited to the economy's needs
will be critical to the resumption of private-sector led growth and to the
sustainability of development. With the assistance of the Bank and
UNESCO/UNDP, the Government has consequently formulated an education sector
strategy designed to address these and other critical issues in a
systematic fashion.
75.       As presently structured, the sector accounts for an estimated 23
percent of total non-salary primary current expenditures, mostly reflecting
the large share of expenditure on scholarships. This level of expenditure
is clearly not sustainable given present and future public sector resource
constraints, and especially when the system no longer responds to the
economy's needs. The educational system suffers from a misallocation of
resources, both among levels (pri#rity to higher education at the expense
of primary education) and uses (favoring personnel expenditure and
scholarships over education materials); indeed, the sector's wage bill
comprises more than 80 percent of total current expenditures on education.
The system is also wasteful in terms of excessive repeaters and failures,
and a mismatch of skills produced and labor market needs, and therefore
contributes to the growing unemployment problem. The organization and
management of the system is characterized by excessive levels of
administrative and teaching personnel.
76.       SAL II would lay the groundwork for a more far-reaching reform
of the educational system which may subsequently be supported by an IDA-
financed sector adjustment operation. The Government has recently
implemented a number of measures in this regard, including the preparation
and adoption of an education sector policy framework, stabilizing the level
of 1991 university scholarships to those awarded in 1990, formulating a
plan to contain scholarship expenditure after 1991, and launching an
organisational audit of the Ministry of Education. Further measures to be
introduced includes I) the adoption of a comprehensive sector policy
statement, including detailed sub-sector strategies and a calendar for
reforms; II) design and Implementation of measures to regulate entrance
into the university (beginning with the reinforcement of selection



- so ..
procedures at the secondary level); IL) the elaboration of a cost-effective
textbook policy; iii) the administrative reorganisation of the Ministry of
tducation; and v) the adoption of measures to regulate the
responsibilities, work schedules, and performance of teacbers and
university professors.
G.        The Social Dimensions of Adiustment
77.       In the context of SAL II, social dimensions of adjustment
considerations will be addressed with a two-phased approach. The first
would involve short-term actions to address areas of known social distress
and provide resources to: i) fince priority health and education sector
supplies (through budgetary allocations and the Social Fund); 1i) implement
a pilot labor-intensive public works program; and iii) rebabilitate
Infrastructure essential to the Improved delivery of priority health and
education services.  The rehabilitation program (para. 52) and the
ezpenditures it will finance have recently been finalized. The pilot
labor-intensive public works program (financed through the Second Water
Supply Project, Credit 1721-BEN of June 1966) which began operations in
December 1990 is providing employment for some 1,500 people, and is also
aiding the fledgling SME sector by use of local materials, contractors, and
consultants. The Urban Project now under preparation will continue this
pilot operation, strengthen the participation of small-scale local
contractors In public works, and carry out pilot health and environmental
sanitation improvements in the peripheral areas of greater Cotonou. A
program for the redeployment and training of laid-off public enterprise
emloyees is now being set up under the Public Enterprise Project, with
Canadian assistance. Arrangements are being finalized to redesign and
assure financing for an employment and small enterprise promotion scheme
which would include training and/or credit for the target population (para.
73). The Government will seek to assure appropriate coordination of the
various retraining and credit schemes through a SDA-coordination and
monitoring committee (Comite de Pilotagelunite de Gestion) to be
established by July 1991.
78.       The second approach, involving more medium-term SDA
interventions, is being prepared in the context of a proposed IDA-financed
Economic Management Support project (para. 34) which will focus on
reforming and strengthening relevant institutions to better monitor the
evolution of social indicators and vulnerable groups under the adjustment
process and provide a basis for policies to increase the participation of
the poor In the economy. The project's broad components will include: I)
national and regional planning; ii) surveys, studies, and monitoring; iii)
promoting the employment of and eztending financial assistance to women to
better integrate them Into the economlc mainstream; and iv) reinforcing
existing rural institutions (including financial organizations) that
promote private rural initiative. Long-term human resource development is
already being supported through the Health Services Project and will be
further advanced under the proposed Education Sector Adjustment operation.
Bank and MNDP staff have collaborated on developing both the short- and
long-term SDA strategies which will be presented to the Benin Geneva
Koundtable planned for late 1991.



- 31 -
?AR' III - UCOONMIC. FINNCIAL AND SOCIAL INPACT
A.        Economic and Financial Impact
79.       Given the deterioration experienced In 1989, real GDP growth
vill be modest over the program period, averaging 3.4 percent during 1991-
93, and is then projected to exceed 4 percent In the medium term when the
full impact of the policy changes would be felt (Table 3). Prlmary sector
(37 percent of GDP) growth is espected to average close to 4 percent in
1991-93. Under the combined influence of earlier adjustment measures (e.g.
reforms In producer pricing policies, and measures to reduce production and
marketing costs), other reforms to be introduced during the program period,
as well as the specific sectoral adjustment measures to be Implemented
under the Agricultural Services Project, the cotton subsector Is expected
to remain a key source of growth, increasing its output from 110,000 tons
In 1989 to more than 150,000 tons by 1993. These measures, as well as the
earlier elimination of restrictions on the coumercLalization of foodcrops,
are also expected to result in increased output in the foodcrop
subsector.lecovering from the 1989 decline, secondary sector (13 percent of
GDP) growth is projected to approach 3 percent over the program period, as
private sector activity increases in response to continued privatization
efforts, the new nvestment code, the recent relaxation of procedures for
establishing industrial activities, the deregulation of the labor market, a
functioning banking system, and reforms in the tariff and industrial
protection systems. Comerce is expected to benefit from the general
improvement In economic activity and the increase in domestic demand
supported by the regular payment of government ralaries and the repayment
of frozen bank deposits; combined with the modest increases in transit
trade which should result once the road network is rehabilitated and the
liberalization measures begin to improve Benin's regional competitiveness,
this would lead to an average annual growth rate of 2 percent in the
tertiary sector.
80.       Achieving the projected growth rates will require both
quantit.ive and qualitative Improvements in investment. The ratio of
overall Investment to GDP would increase from 11 percent in 1990 to 14
percent in 1993, with the private sector increasing its share from 38
percent In 1990 to 43 percent by 1993 (para. 54). The modest improvement
In the lncremental capital-output ratio would result from greater
productlvity of existing capacity as well as from an increase in the
profitability of new investments, based on improvements in the preparation,
election, and execution of public investment projects, the reforms already
underay in the public enterprise sector, and measures being implemented to
create a better climate for private investment. In a context of gradually
reducing external Imbalances, the projected increase in investment would
require raising the national savings rate from 3 percent in 1990 to 5
percent by 1993. By 1994 when a current fiscal surplus should be attained
(with its counterpart in a decline In real government consumption), the
national savings rate is projected to rise to 7 percent of GDP. The
restoration of a functioning banking system and renewed confidence ln the
political and economic situation should also improve finmacial savings and
foster private capital reflows. However, in view of the time required for
these developments to show their full Impact, the savings-investment gap



- 32 -
111A"I                            nkin: Wel S. - SAL 11 - Smry irdloators, 16-S
07:0B F
Fr.l la.           -     PeroJtlom
1G               lo      ISO    1i99       14    1995
1. bX1 SRate of  O
-  ross .MstIC Prot at M.p.             2.6              3.0      8.5      3.8     4.1      4.8
Of Wildi: - Priury                   2.8               3.0     3.0      4.5      5.1     5.3
- Seondary                  2.2              2.6      8.0     8.3      3.8      3.0
- Tertiary                  1.0              1.8      2.2     2.4      2.9      3.8
- Per Capita Grow Ohstlo Inoo 1/   -1.3                 4.8       0.0      0.9      1.4     1.6
- Per Capita Prlvat Owruiwtlgi          0.2               1.0     0.5      1.0     0.7      0.9
- Exorts of 6ds 8 WS                    1.0              8.3      5.8      3.1     3.8      4.8
Of Uicld: - oXttm Prodas             0.4             38.1      8.2      9.8    10.8    10.8
- crude OIl                -8.3             19.0    13.3   -11.8   -18.3   -20.0
- R    or                  -2.9              1.1      1.4     2.3      7.2      7.5
- IpCft8  ofod1   NWS                   9.0              14.0     4.7      2.8     3.4      4.0
Of idi :
- Capital Goods             7.7             19.7    10.8      9.0      8.6    10.0
2. X Wm   of GP at  -.p.
- Gross: GOastlo lrnvestmnt            11.4              13.8    14.2    14.3    14.7    15.7
Of b ldh: - PubiIo FlPxd invest.      6.9               7.8     8.1      8.0      8.1     7.7
- Private FIxad Invest.      4.3              5.3     5.7      6.2      6.5     8.0
- Gross Natlonal SavI,6p                3.4              2.8      3.7      4.9     8.8      8.7
-  Wrmsnt Aammt Belaros,               -8.0            -11.2   -10.5    -9.3    -7.9    -7.0
(uluhlre grant)
- Goerwranet Ravens                     9.7              10.8    11.3    12.3    13.0    13.3
- Gov't TotAl EusuWltures              19.4             20.3    19.3    18.7    18.1    16.8
- Gov't Priory Sptlum 2/               -1.2              0.0      1.4      2.7     3.6      4.4
- Gov't Osr Ia Got oeft,               -9.7              -9.7    -8.0    -6.4    -5.1    -3.5
(camitut basis)
1/ 60Y adJwxted for external trm of trads.
2t fElueildlwl  Intet paynts.
Solios: Off lcial Gv't data; Bank Staff estimates and projsotion.



- 33 -
vould narrow only in the medium term, from the equivalent of 8.0 percent of
GDP in 1990 to 7.0 percent by 1995.
81.       A large increase In exports of 8.3 percent is projected for
1991, due essentially to a sharp recovery of cotton exports after the 1990
declines an increase in crude oil exports resulting from the accumulation
of stocks in 1990 Is also expected. In 1992-93 exports would expand lese
rapidly at an average rate of 4.3 percent, reflecting the relatively modest
increases of 3.8 percent for re-exports (65 percent of total exports) in
view of continued weakness in regional demand and Benin's lack of regional
competitiveness, which can be expected to improve only gradually. 91 A
continued robust cotton sector performance is projected, with exports
growing at an average of 9 percent in 1992-93, after the large expansion of
26 percent in 1991; by 1993 cotton exports would comprise more than 32
percent of total exports, up from 30 percent in 1990. Crude oil exports
(21 percent of domestic exports, i.e. net of re-exports, and 9.5 percent of
total exports) would rise significantly in 1992, reflecting the impact of
additional investments to prolong the life of the Seme oilfield through an
extension of Phase 2 101; in the absence of a third phase of production
for Seme, crude oil exports would fall at an average annual rate of 17
percent in 1993-95. Following the large increases in 1990 and 1991 to
compensate for the major contraction experienced in 1989 and to support
planned rehabilitation/investment efforts, import growth is then projected
to average 3.7 percent in 1992-93, reaching 4 percent by 1995; large
increases are projected for capital and intermediate goods imports,
consistent with the growth in investment. The share of food imports is
expected to decline in the medium term as domestic production expands,
which explains the decline in the import/GDP ratio over the period.
Overall, imports for domestic use (as distinct from imports for re-exports)
are projected to grow at an average rate in excess of 8 percent over the
program period.
B.        Social ImPact
82.       Given the deterioration experienced in 1989, real increases in
per capita incomes and private consumption would remain moderate over the
program period (Table 3); in the medium term, per capita income (adjusted
for terms of trade changes) and private consumption growth would average
1.5 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively. Despite low per capita incomes,
however, Benin's overall food self-sufficiency has helped to ensure
generally c   uate nutritional levels, especially in the rural areas.
Rural inhabittgnts have also benefitted from improved terms of trade due to
9I Even if Benin successfully carries out internal adjustment with respect
to the rest of the world, its competitive position relative to Nigeria
would continue to be undermined by the latter's parity changes.
10/ Crude oil exports can be maintained at about 1.6 million barrels in
1991-92 if a minor investment of about US$ 3 million is made in the Seme
field in 1991/92s discussions are presently underway with a view to
financing this investment through an extension to Phase II of the Seme Oil
Project (previously financed under Credit 1503-BEN).



- 34 -
producer price increases over the last few years, much of which has been
retained despite cuts in world prices. In the urban areas, by contrast,
retrenchment In the public sector, and delays In the payment of civil
servants' and teachers' salaries have adversely affected employment and
real incomes. Attention to the social dimensions of adjustment have thus
focused on the urban areas but is now also being directed to the needs of
the rural population. particularly with respect to protect£ng non-wag.
recurrent health and education expenditures and to rehabilitating social
Infrastructure.
83.       The public finance component of  SAL II will consciously
incorporate social dimensions eonsiderations by shifting resources out of
personnel expenditures to materials and supplies, especially for the health
and education sectors. To this end a Social Fund, through which donors'
contributions will be channeled, has been established in the budget to
finance priority education and health materials and supplies. The proposed
rehabilitation program (para. 52) would facilitate education and health
service delivery to vulnerable groups by repairing dilapidated primary
schools and critical health infrastructure and equipment. The civil
service reduction program under SAL I was supported with a very generous
coupe.sation package (pars.56); the revised program under SAL II would
still provide adequate compensation (albeit on a less generous scale) In
order to facilitate the integration of departing civil servants into the
private sector.
04.       The unemployment problem will be addressed through a number of
initiatives and short-term measures now being put In place (para. 77).
Under the proposed Agricultural Services Project, a credit scheme and
training programs for former CARDER staff will be set up to support their
Integration into the rural private sector and the expansion of private
sector provision of inputs and services. A project preparation facility of
the proposed Food Security and Poverty Alleviation Project has permitted
the programming of some US$ 750,000 in pilot operations for 1990, In
collaboration with a number of NGO's. Finally the Economic Management
Support Project now under preparation would provide institutional support
and strengthen policy analysis and statistical capabilities with a view to
a fuller integration of social dimensions considerations into the design
and monitoring of the structural adjustment process (para.77).
C.        External Financing Requirements
85.       The projected evolution of exports and imports, combined with
debt service payments that are expected to remain substantial (averaging 31
percent of exports of goods and non-factor services), mean that the current
account deficit would fall below the 1990 level (8.0 percent of GDP) only
in 1994, to the equivalent of 7.9 percent of GDP, averaging US$ 221 million
per year in 1991-93. The current account is projected to deteriorate
Initially in 1991, rrflecting the recovery of import and investment
activity from the 1989 contraction and other rehabilitation expenditures
under the structural adjustment program. Taking into account the annual
amortization of external debt estimated to total US$ 92.4 million over the
period, the reduction in external payment arrears of US$ 61.8 million, and
the reduction in the banking system's foreigp liabilities (including



- 35 -
repayments to the DCEA0), gross external financial requirements are
estimated at US$ 980.1 million over the 1991-93 perlod, of which US$ 197.0
million are expected to come from official grants and U8$ 215.2 from
concessional project loans. With projected short term capital Inflows of
about 24.6 million, the remaining financing requirements would total US$
543.3 million. This will require additional official debt relief and
exceptional support from both multilateral and bilateral sources. As
indicated In Table 4 below, identified financing total US$ 396.5 million,
including possible debt relief of US$ 184.e million, proposed SAL II
resources of U8S 55 million, the first tranciae of V8S 4 million from a
proposed IDA education sector adjustment credlt, remaining Social Fund
disbursements of USS 6.7 million, IW SAY resources of VS$ 19.3 million,
and SPA financing of US$ 126.7 million. The remaining financing gap of US$
146.8 million is expected to be covered by additional SPA resources, to be
confirmed at a donors' meeting planned for June 1991. A portion of this
amount may need to be financed through the postponement of some payments to
the WCEAO (para. 62).
D.        Downside Risks
86.       The main risk to the scenario described in sections A-C above is
that the newly elected Government may be preoccupied with consolidating
public support, and thus that it might implement the program less
rigorously than assumed. A second risk to the economic, financial. and
social outcome projected under the program is that of further term of
trade losses stemming from declining world prices for Benin's main export
commodities. The final risk concerns a shortfall in expected external
assistance, as occurred under SAL I. These risks are discussed further
below.
87.       Policy S1ipae:t  If the policy measures required for the major
domestic resource mobilization effort were implemented less rigorously than
assumed and if the Government lacked the political will to contain current
expenditures, the key program objective of stabilizing public finances
would be jeopardized. Failure to pursue the banking system restructuring,
to continue the liberalization efforts, and to reform the Incentive
framework for private Investments, would preclude the increase in private
sector investments projected under the adjustment scenario. Since the
productivity of public sector investments would be reduced if the level of
discipline in selecting projects for the PIP were to decline, the
quantitative and qualitative improvements in investment required to sustain
a higher growth rate would not materialise, thus undermining the growth
prospects of the economy.
88.       Lower Export Prices: The adjustment scenario assumes average
annual price increases of 4 percent for cotton, but given the historical
volatility of cotton prices, there is a risk these may in fact be lower
than projected. Recent developments in world oil markets, the end of the
Gulf War, and new oil discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico make the evolution
of oil prices particularly uncertain. Lower world prices for these two
major Beninese export commodities may make it difficult to continue paying
remunerative producer prices, to attain the revenue increases projected,
and thus to implement those components of the adjustment program which are



- 36 -
314My-91                  8min: Table 4. Exteml Flnerlrg Rwpirmt, 1991-3
05:37 FM
(In EI I aIs of US Dallar)
Avarap
191    1992    1993         1991-93 1991-93
A. REQUIREMNS                     418.8  291.0  270.9            980.1  326.7
Oamt aocwt  eficit,
excludin official grnes          226.5   Z15.4  211.1           813.0  221.0
Ibdlu- .n LT PiblIC
dbt  ortlzantlm                   24.5   40.0   27.9             92.4   30.8
TnxtFadrqaymt                      -    -    -                     -    -
ROWton In arrers (- n Imar.)       81.8    -       -              61.8   20.8
RPtlan of blcIrV syutm
forelgi labilities               105.8   25.8   31.9            163.0   54.3
8. RESMCECS                       130.5  144.3   182.0           438.8   145.8
Pui lc Project Aid                124.4  137.0  150.8            412.2  137.4
Official wvft082.2   65.9   88.9                               197.0   65.7
ProJect Oldxrshmwt               82.2   71.1   81.9            215.2   71.7
Prlvate apital InflowI             6.1    7.8   11.2              24.6    8.2
C. Grosa Finamlrg ap (A-B)        287.7  148.8  108.8            543.3  181.1
Possible Official Debt Rl lef  101.9   56.8   27.4             184.8   81.8
IDA SAL II                      25.0   30.0     -              55.0   18.3
IDA EGation SEL                 -       -       4.0             4.0    1.3
IIF SpCort (SI)                 11.5    7.8     -              19.3    8.4
IDA Soclal Furd                  3.5    3.2     -               6.7    2.2
Identifled SPA Fi,uurwng        66.8   87.2   22.7            128.7   42.2
D. Extrml Finhr,uk  Gap            79.1   13.0   54.7            148.8   48.9
Muoanwku Item:
Avra  CFAFSS Edr Rate            270.0  270.0  270.0
Swmrces: Offlolal data; ad Bark and Furd stff estiutes ard projectli.



- 37 -
predicated on improved financial strength. These developments would
consequently require larger external financing than assumed.
89.       Shortfalls in External Disbursements: The approximately 50
percent shortfall in expected external disbursements under SAL I adversely
affected program implementation. Given the complexity of some donors'
disbursement procedures, and the Government's earlier difficulties in
mobilizing external financing, the risk of an underfinanced program remains
a real one. Were this risk to materialize, the pace of adjustment would be
hampered especially as concerns the reimbursement of depositors, the civil
service departure program, and the rehabilitation program, which are all
predicated on the availability of large amounts of external financing.
90.       The combined effect of these developments are illustrated in a
downside risk scenario whose key assumptions are the followings
i)   As a ratio of GDP, revenues are significantly below the
levels achieved in the base case; because the civil service
reduction program is not carried out, new recruitments
continue on a non-selective basis, and the educational
reforms are not rigorously implemented, the Government
fails to contain expenditures on personnel and scholarships
which, on average, stay 11 percent higher than in the
adjustment scenario.
ii)  Because the banking system restructuring is not fully
carried out and the liberalization efforts falter, private
investments do not increase significantly. Weak project
selection for the PIP, and the failure to invest in the
rehabilitation of infrastructure and core public services
decrease the efficiency of both private and public
investmentst thus the incremental capital-output ratio
stagnates at 5 in 1991-95.
iii) World prices for cotton and crude oil are on average 10
percent lower than in the base case; because cotton farmers
are not paid remunerative producer prices, cotton
production stays below the volumes assumed under the base
case.
91.       Under this scenario, GDP growth would average 2.4 percent in
1991-95 compared to 3.9 percent under the base case (Table 5), preventing
the achievement of positive per capita income growth. Due to weak revenue
performance and the increase in current expenditures, the primary current
budget is not stabilized until 1992, and the surplus generated thereafter
averages a mere 0.3 percent of GDP (as against 2.6 percent in the base
case); there is additional accumulation of domestic arrears, and
counterpart funding is insufficient to assure the full execution of the
public investment program. The investment/GDP ratio stagnates at 11.9
percent in 1991-93 (14.1 percent in the base case), national savings are
negligible, and investments continue to be inefficient; the basis for
medium-term growth is therefore undermined.   Because export performance
barely improves and the modest GDP growth still requires significant levels
of imports (mostly of food), the current account deficit/GDP ratio



- 38 -
0Chin-91             Smin: tbe b. - S.L 11 - Key IndIcatoms Urdr Alturetiwg Stmmrlog
01:08 FM
-: .-.Projecti
- Atl- PreflI.    -_ kmCm - - Obwld-
1111    1989   `1u001       1tint-u   3M4-6 1tit-0  tu41
1. km I ZNte of Oup
- Gross DOinsetic Rut at u.p.         3.0    -0.7     2.6              8.4     4.5     2.8     2.5
Of vhlh: - Primary               12.7     5.4     2.8              8.8     5.4     2.2     2.4
- Smcndary                1.5   -0.1      2.2              2.9     8.8     2.1     2.8
- ertlary                 1.1    -3.1     1.0              2.1     8.8     1.4     1.9
- Per Capita Gross Omestic Inca. 1/    5.5   -7.1    -1.8             -1.5     1.5    -2.4    -0.6
- EcrM  of oodB S NFS                -2.0   -94.5     1.0             5.8      4.1     4.5     1.9
Of filch: - Ctton PoGL3ts        -48.7    59.8     0.4             16.5    10.0     9.8     5.0
- crudef 01             -9.6   -18.1   -4.8               6.0   -19.0     6.0   -19.0
- 110e-u1 rts             9.9   47.8    -2.9               1.6     7.3    -0.7     2.1
- In"ortOf 6I & NFS                   3.5   -2.8      9.0             7.0      8.7     5.3     2.8
- capital Gooll          25.0   -20.7     7.7             13.0    10.7     4.7     4.5
2. 8 Share of G0P at *p.
- GrOss D.mstlc Irnveunt             13.5    9.1    11.4              14.1    15.2    11.9    12.7
Of hlCh: - PUbleC FIXed InHwSt.    9.1     7.9     6.9              8.0     7.9     7.2     7.7
- Private FIXd lomut.      3.9     3.7     4.3             5.7      7.3     4.6     5.1
- Gross National SavIrnP              5.8     2.8     8.4             8.7      7.8     0.5     2.6
- Ojrrent tAwIXt Salas,              -7.7    -8.2    -8.0            -10.8    -7.5   -12.0   -10.2
(emludlng Wf)
- owrrinnt fsWniU                    12.8     9.2     9.7             11.4    13.2    10.0    11.1
- 6OV't Total E150"ItuIrs            22.8    19.7    19.4             19.4    17.8    19.3    19.5
- Gov't Primu" Surplus 2             -1.2    -2.0    -1.2             1.4      4.0     0.0     0.3
- Gov't Owvrat I Def lit,           -9.5   -10.5    -9.7             -8.0    -4.4    -9.3    -8.4
(commitmlt balsl)
S. Oter Indlctors
- CspItalt 4ut Ratlo (IC0)            4.4   -18.5     8.6             3.8      8.8     5.1     4.9
- Extemnl Term of Trad (1080.100)    98.8    88.5    80.9             72.1    75.8    70.8    72.4
1/ l adusd for WtrnmI terms of trade.
21Excluilno interuot pa.
SWiroes: Off ical O't data; Ow8* Staff    tlutso axd projection.



- 39 -
deteriorates to an average of 12.0 percent In 1991-93 (10.3 percent under
the base case), and external arrears are accumulated. Financing
requirements remain large, and the period during which Benin will need
exceptional financing is lengthened.
PART IV - TIE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.        Financina
92.       The proposed credit would support the Government's Second
Structural Adjustment Program in which the structural lmpedlents to growth
vill be addressed. An amount of US$ 55 million Is proposed for the credit.
This amount would finance 2.6 percent of imports of goods and services and
represent about 10 percent of lenin's exceptional financing needs for
1991-93.
93.       It is proposed that the credit be disbursed in three tranches of
US$ 25 million for the first and US$ 15 million each for the second and
third. The larger amount proposed for the first tranche reflects the
larger financing requirements of the first year of the program, associated
In particular with the banking system restructuring; other donors are also
expected to increase their 1991 contributions accordingly. The three-
tranche disbursement would both facilitate the orderly Impleentation of
the program and permit better Bank monitoring of iLs execr.tions the
administrative reform and civil service reductio-- 1..-grrA in particular
will require a longer time period for lmplementat; . The first tranceb
would be disbursed upon effectiveness; the secorv4 nd third would only be
disbursed following a review indicating satisfactory progress in
implementing the program as a whole, and upon fulfillment of the specific
tranche release conditions spelled out in paras. 98 and 99 below.
94.       The credit would facilitate a significant amount of parallel
financing from other donors (some of whose disbursements vould be tied to
IDA"s). Identitied sources of financing include France (US$ 27 million).
the EEC (US$ 40 million), the African Development lank (US8 20 allion),
Germany (US$ 18 million), Switzerland (US$ 12 million), Japan (4.7 million)
and the United States (US$ 5.0 million). The DEl's second-year SAP
amounting to U$ 11.5 million is expected to be disbursed In July 1991.
Donor conmitments will be confirmed at a special donors' meeting planned to
be held in Paris in June 1991. Financing to support social action program
related to SAL II will be raised at the Geneva Roundtable Meeting being
organized by the UNDP.
S.        Monitorable Actions
95.       The Government has recently taken actions in the following
areass
Public Finance and Reform of the Fiscal Systems
I) restoration of the import tax base to 100 percent of the clf
ialue, from the 70 percent put in place in 1989; Li) adoption of



- 40 -
an action plan for the tariff reform and implementation of the
first phase in connection with (i) above; iLL) implementation of
a system for the pre-shipment inspection of imports; iv)
Introduction of the general expenditure tax; v) completion of
study on petroleum distribution and taxation; and vi)
implementation of now administrative arrangements to coordinate
investment programLing between the Ministry of Planning and the
sectoral ministries/enterprises.
Administrative Reform and the Civil Service Reduction Program:
i) completion of organizational audit of the Ministry of
Finance; ii) launching of organizational audit of the Ministry
of Education; iii) completion of a staff redeployment exercise
for the Ministry of Health; and iv) elaboration and adoption of
a new civil service departure program.
Public EnterDrise Reforms i) adoption of an action plan to
complete liquidations begun in 1986-90; ii) issuance of bids to
privatize five enterprises Ill; iII) completion of
diagnosticimarket studies for SONAR, OBSS, SONACOP, and SITEX;
iv) initiation of contracting procedures for the financial audit
of SCO; v) adoption of strategy for the lease-management
privatization of SSS; vi) adoption of divestiture strategy for
SONICOG; and vii) completion of inventory of public enterprise
cross debts and adoption of action plan to settle them.
Deregulation and Liberalizations i) effective implementation of
new investment code and labor and commercial legislation; and
1i) reduction from 22 to 4 of the number of products subject to
prior approval for price increases and to controlled profit
margins.
Education Sector Reforms i) development of an education policy
framework, plan, and institutional arrangements for the
preparation of a comprehensive sector policy statement and
strategy; and ii) implementation of criteria to stabilize 1991
university scholarships to the 1990 level and adoption of an
action plan to contain scholarship awards after 1991.
96.       The specific measures to be supported by the proposed credit are
spelled out in the Government's Statement of Development Strategy (Annex V)
and are summarized in a policy matrix (Annex VI) which also contains the
timetable envisaged for their implementation. The Government's Statement
of Development Strategy will form the basis for performance reviews under
the adjustment program. Supplementary credit data are provide in Annex
III.
97.       It has been agreed with the Government that the following
actions will coistitute conditions of credit effectiveness and thus of
release of the first tranche of the credits i) issuance of an invitation to
11/ Usine de Noiu ae Cajou, Maiserie de Bohicon, SEB, Usine de Concentre de
Tomates, and Usine de Jus de Fruits.



- 41 -
bid for the privatisation (through the sale of assets) of la Beninoise
(brewery): and ii) signature of a contract for the financial audit of SCO
(cement).
98.       It has been agreed with the Government that the release of the
second tranche of the credit, planned for March 1992, will depend upon
satisfactory progress under the structural adjustment program, including a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, and the implementation of the
following measurest
(a) Agreement has been reached with the Association on a three-
year rolling public investment program for 1992-94 and the
applicable portion thereof has been carried out as planned
(para. 55), and on budgetary allocations to be appropriated
in the 1992 budget for the agricultural, education, and
health sectors, for road maintenance, and government
utility consumption (para. 50); and the execution of the
1991 budget shows that an equilibrium in the Government's
current primary operations has been attained, or corrective
measures to achieve such equilibrium have been implemented
(para. 44).
(b) The Government has taken specific measures, agreed by IDA,
to enhance recovery of bank loans, including reforms of
judicial procedures, land title arrangements and records,
and changes in commercial laws (para. 63).
Sc) The financial audit of SCO has been completed and an action
plan adopted to implement the recomwendations acceptable to
IDAs agreed reforms on the petroleum distribution and
taxation system, including SONACOP, have been fully
implemented; financial restructuring measures for OBSS have
been agreed upon with the Association, and have been
implemented; SONAR's monopoly has been eliminated and
private insurance regulations have been adopted; COBENAM
has been divested of its commercial activities; CNBF has
been dissolved and its data collection activities, as well
as the control of international transportation arrangements
have been transferred to the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport; and an invitation to bid has been issued for the
privatization of SOCOGIK (paras. 65-68).
(d) All remaining import licensing requirements have been
removed (para. 71), and the Borrower has enacted a public
procurement code (para. 49)
(e) The Borrower has implemented the recommendations of the
organizational audit of its Ministry of Finance agreed to
by the Association, and agreement has been reached on an
action plan for implementing the recommendations of the
organLzational audits of the Ministries of Education and
Health (para. 57); a net reduction of at least 2,000 in the
number of permanent civil servants has occurred during
calendar year 1991 and, thereafter, net reductions have



- 42 -
occurred at a rate equivalent to 2,000 per year, all with
the elimination of the related staff positions (para. 57).
If) The Borrower has adopted an education policy, strategy, and
action plan acceptable to the Association and has adopted
regulatoins to govern entrance into its university (para.
76).
99.       It has been agreed with the Government that release of the third
trascho, planned for November 1992, will depend upon satisfactory progress
under the structural adjustment program, including a satisfactory
meaecesomic fraework. and the mplementation of the following measuress
(a) A three-year rolling public investment program for 1993-95
has been agreed with the Association and the applicable
portion of the public investment program agreed for 1992-94
has been carried out as planned (para. 55); agreement has
been reached with the Association on budgetary allocations
to be appropriated in the 1993 budget for the agricultural,
education, and health sectors, for road maintenance, and
government utility consumption, and the budgetary
allocatiots agreed to in the 1992 budget have been utilized
as plannri (para. 50); and execution of the 1992 budget
indicat   that the targeted surplus in the Government's
current primary operations has been or is being generated
(para. 44).
(b) Revised organigrms and staffing plans for the Ministries
of Education and Health, as recommended by the
organizational audits, have been implemented;
organizational audits, under terms of reference agreed upon
by IDA, have commenced for the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport, the Ministry of Plan and Statistics, the
Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Public Enterprises, and
the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (para. 57); net
reductions In the number of permanent civil servants have
occurred In 1992 and thereafter at a rate equivalent to
2,000 per year, with the elimination of related staff
positions (para. 57).
{c) The Borrower has adopted leglslation to implement the
Import taxation and industrial protection system agreed
upou with the Association (para. 70); the Borrower and the
Association have reviewed the implementation of legislation
pertaining to Investment promotion, labor relations, and
commercial activity and recommendations acceptable to the
Association of such a review have been implemented (para.
71).
(d) The privatization strategy for SONICOG, agreed upon by the
Assoclation, has been fully implemented; the maritime
sector has been liberalized, and COBENAM has been
Integrated into a regional maritime consortium or has been



- 43 -
dismantled and an Invitation to bid Issued for the purchase
of its assets (parse. 67-68).
(e) The Borrower has adopted a university scholarship policy
acceptable to the Association (para. 76).
(f) An action plan to improve the Borrower's competitiveness in
Interonatioal markets, agreed with the Association, has
been adopted and implemented (para. 71).
C.        M,naaemnt. Monitorin. and lenortins of the Prosram
100.      Overall responsibility for program management and monitoring
will continue to rest with the Commission Nationale Ot Suivi de
l'Application du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (CUSAPAS), chaired by
the Minister of Finance, and which includes the Ministers of Planning,
Industry, Energy, and Public Enterprises, Comer'-e, Rural Development, and
Labor and Social Affairs. Day-to-day coordination of the work of the
Commission*s various sub-commissions is assured by a technical secretariat.
As begun under SAL I, the Minister of Finance will forward a progress
report on the program to the Bank every three months. Beginning in late
1990, the former Prime Minister (now President) chaired week meetings of
the CISAPAS with the participation of the Bank and IMP Resident
Representativest these meetings have substantially helped to speed up
preparation of SAL II and augurs well for its implementation and
monitoring.
D.        Procurement, Disbursement, and Retroactive Financing
101.      The proposed credit would reimburse 100 percent of the cif costs
of eligible imports, excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items, and
goods intended for military use. Both public and private sector imports
would be eligible for financing. Public sector imports and those of
private entities will be procured according to international competitive
bidding procedures for contracts of US$ 1 million equivalent or more.
Public sector imports estimated to cost less than USS 1 million equivalent
ould be procured through price quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers who meet IDA eligibility guidelines. Imports by the private
sector for contracts of less than US$ 1 million equivalent would be in
accordance with normal commercial practices In Benin, which are acceptable
to IDA. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from two
countries would be sought. Financing of Imports of petroleum products and
foodstuffs would together not exceed SDR 8 million of disbursements under
the proposed credit while finnmcing of imports of electricity would be
limited to SDR 8 million. Up to SDR 8.3 million of the total amount of the
credit would be made available to finance retroactively expenditures
incurred up to four months before the expected date of signing of the
Credit Agreement. In February 1991 the Government put in place a system
for the pro-shipment inspection of imports, with the assistance of a
foreign private firm.



- 44 -
102.      The Government will establish a Special Account, on teoms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, at the central bank (BCEAO) to facilitate
disbursement. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA would make an inittal
disbursement of CFAF 3 billion into the account. The account would be
repleuishe4 regularly and up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis
oft I) fully documented reimbursement applications for import contracts
exceeding US$ 50,000; and ii) statements of expenditures (SOEs) for imports
between US$ 10000 and US$ 50,000. Disbursement applications would be
aggregated with a minimum replenisbment application of SDR 500,000. The
Government will entrust the BCEAO with the responsibility for preparation
of withdrawal applications under the credit and for collection of documents
to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications. These
records and accounts, including those for SOB's, will be maintained and
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the
audit reports will be provided to IDA not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year. All documents (invoices, customs invoices and
evidence of payment) in support of SOE's will be kept by the BCEAO and made
available to IDA supervision missions and the external auditors for review.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1991



-45 -ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
W M0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ms
tx03=-~~~~~~~~~~ 4TP*   j 1          213    3      s      a 02 o
o           _I         "      "      "      L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61    3.7    3 5
Ub~~~~~~~~~~~~6mm              4_.                               31"u¢u. 5
Malafti"..  . .  dw          4             .      .           8
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                           a  .4  1..    9.5
4Ilil_ll > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~19                      LA    61 4    638
FMW  _w 1^ma                         dz1          47 n.d    3606   3:2
:11~~~~~~~~S dl-          st7i           .    41.6   49.i    4
._          *       ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~51.1  "4    3Q8S  3449 . 
V-b
da         1)3m 113II    113  22312  36.997   -**19
Ind                 _N                                           3 l  l *  3 4 3
RX ,-                             :,-rb
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                            7 3. i 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                          4 



111  fry1|fUl|l IP,1a (fgJEiIiiI I ItrmqI|
I                                                                       I
@,I2 lff  X S tS:i  S   ::: :  a : tS t              aft  t aS SS a ::  i a;    ,   -
t1 ool~~~~~I I   I  S1  a   I ;  31  3:  3   S  i                          
2ez s mo ee  t                     E        S                      X  l§.4
335    8:8      ~  33         33±   83±tIz



'r'A po soosslov 9W Po vom
AI,0 .'4i'wo su
WA Ol   O'S*t so   e.g              et9's   Ole  Al.   Ole                         efui"  swougo amm
- lululXo tnd&
s:   st   it   g't  :'        S t 't ct         8 -t   *'0  *-i  c's                 1        "Ofbh 9g.
0-   0'9   ;e   t'O   is           s*:  ;*:         rI    Si  VS   30 9'to '9t   tq
_tapeJ"  IIV4    _"
0109VISSalso D'Atola   loo    lm  oao  #64           9104101000 "ttAd0
0'0   4'0  0'0   50   £0           8'0  iS-         P'S   t-0- 9-0  8-0              _40g ta  uv
LIi s*n  sitt t*'ts  ti?           Ai Ole           :1n 9'8 o-n   Ao                  -wmosx p*agj
i'   t1  *fl  Si   *tn             o *n  to'en   t'tn                 rn O    ~     S6U   ~eg   i
s   ;ve   B-e  ta0   U'S?          £01    3-Ot O'Ot             sit Oit                  *a* Jo o
*As  s'gs  slot  I'm   *'gs        *-U elm          Olt   el"  elm  TIT' 0's  *'0              "aIJ
o'.  o'*  e'g  *-'0  *'e           se   *'e         550   tIC  SiC   £C                U19~6  8
s'ee  scSi O-it t-8m  e8sn         scot o'8ot       im    *'coi so    *ov                -aa"puu gq.a
*'  g*g  *I*9   g*g.  *ggi         Ole is'          A,&   a's  8ii  *I' JT  'ad@
0-1t   uso  e>   i9'    Lt -U  2-OW                 @0   **t *ln   iw                           1
C'0   0-0   *'0  I'0   t0         I-0  0'0         *'U0   TIT  *'0   0I0             t1"S       1t
C'8  C-@  *-0  C'S   C5            C    ***         8-      g  **-    *-              (ISt1 W 9t
Ole8  OleS  Ole  Ale  Ale          115 Ole          Ole   S'A  S'A  S'O          (J9010011*I 'p143 JO
VIST  29     eGt  2191  *,n        *,el 9,9         I'l v-n t  11t     le t-@tM
9-As   tsa  e'.  2E.8  O'S         O'S  else       *eW   e'u  else  0'S           colool      , plt Jo)
S'S  C*i  *iS   i.e  S'S           *0  S*           30"   S'  S'   ii                 100 WJP6 WWc  _
*'? *I*    0'l '09  a,*            0-1 AP           Ole   $I1  Ole   I's              *ML 5f4106 "4
Woovt -O-hOt elm*I=Wo              Wo   olot        olo OOt  O  @t O-OOt 00                 of" O- I  *410d
aO    GO Oal,Sgp
ICCt  ICC Mt   S W:  tot           Oat Mt           out   ml 91 11I  Is
(a) £m    6    Pk%   USW =AM=    wm    "amLW  ISNtS VW
ANMW&  MIR W131DM -   'Its ''-11                                                                        nt VW 
t Jo I aywa
I I XatW                    -



-48-                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
a Am 19911i S AL    - OAM CS WM AjAiir
_         -Iite   TAU  9. lATIStL A0118  AT  UMfA 1960  MZE---        -
e.(1 UA Pre. bll I too)
Mg  s 4   196?   19           son  19,0         iwi  iwi2  iwo  iw%   20
C. ObOtlma Acoamato (Csat)
Gross O_motle Prsdast a.P.     70.6 16.6 11.3   6.6          11.e1.7             .4 804.5 818.2 19.2 &844.9
met InIreot Tes       g       9.1  32.2 U.S   U.4           11.4 1J.1         14.9  16.4  17.9  18.9  20.7
Primry Sor                   107.7 113.8 106.6  13.1       116.0 10.1        18.1 1I9.4 148.7 188.1 111.2
(of Wtich Dqricalture)     78.8  01.8 78.   WA.             .8 98.1          6.8 102.4 107.8 118.2 119.8
Indutr,                      84.0  S0.1  1.1   81.6         81.6  .8         18.1  84.1  88.2  86.4  s7.8
(of which mOMwqt.)          9.6   9.2  0.7   11.6         12.0 11.2         12.6  18.1  18.6  14.2  14.9
(Of which atinlO 10.8   6.7  7.8    6.8                    6.8  6.8         6.6   6.8   7.0   7.2   7.5
services                     106.0 110.9 111.3  112.8      10.0 11.1         11t.1 114.8 117.8 13.6 128.2
Reource cp                     86.1  49.2 48.5  87.2          17.8 48.9        6.4  72.6  73.6  74.7  77.8
leprt of  <d & Wa             *.8 109.2110.   166.4        111.9 13.0,       189.0 148.6 149.6 1U.7 100.9
Cac;#rty to bRert            146.1 119.0 117.3  129.8       74.4 73.0         69.6  78.1  71.0  60.0  68.4
&port of Seed.  &S            148.8 1aa.o 1ta.6  110.9        68.  86.8        98.7  9.  10.1 106.0 110.9
Total Reer  Awel leble       80.1  810.0 29.7  81.2         804.9 0at.2      8N.7 881.2 386.7 877.9 898.0
Tcul Csuuption                169.  217.1 264.1  278.4       279.6 1S.0       29.1 106.0  t81.9 819.8 840.9
Public                       41.8  42.8 48.6  89.2          10.6 8A.4        8.9  29.8  a.0  28.6  27.8
Private                      MsA 39.8 220.8  239.1         146.8 27.1        166.8 278.2 289.9 800.9 818.1
Total SVOa_tt                  8s.8   7.7 885.7  87.8         2.6 812.6        40.e  48.1  44.8  48.4  54.1
fPied Capital Pbrmtlo        87.7  86.0 8.9  86.7          81.4 s1.s        as.8  42.1   4.8  46.8  84.0
nans. in Stocks               0.8   1.8 -1.2   1.1         -7.1  0.8          2.2   1.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Ceprite to  epor              146.1 11.0 117.8  11.8          74.4 7t.0        69.6  73.1  76.0  90.0  68.4
Term of Trae AdJustmet         -0.7 -14.8 -16.8  -1.6        -11.8 -18.8       .48.1 -25.0 -18.1 -26.0 -27.4
ases Oss_tic lasss            270.0 261.0 266.2  27.0        S. 171.1         170.8 18.6 190.1 808.2 87.S
Grow Nationl otr_ss           US19 17s.21 266.9  t2.6        278.9 278.7      274.7  Me.0 297.2 810.6 826.8
Ore. Natioal Produt           189.6 sw.0o .2  1.1            ns.1219.1        261.6 810.9 81.8 886.6 88.7
0 res. os1tic Savings           0.1 -10.8 -7.9   0.6         -#2.8 -16.8      .1.8 -2@.4 -18.8  -26.8 -21.4
Ftcto Service Uncome         19.0  16.4 12.7  12.6          6.6  6.4         4.4   6.8   7.1   7.4  7.8
Oreoss Natiol Sating.          19.1   8.9  4.6   18.1        .8.7 -0.9        -1.4 -23.1 -21.7 -18.9 -1t.6



- 49-                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
I is"a 1991                                                                    6D4Ni AL U - SASS CAMK VIT *0L .-STIf
-T A            EA   S. WPLY MW no  Ol PFPIIF AT @W4       _i
(In CPA Fr.nca bitleft)
l6o    1    197   16t"        16  10"          199t   16   1o8  194  199
'TOtl lualy of Usows          6U.  648r.1 681.    e.0       69.10.4          799.8 776.0 62.6 S7.8  11.4
Creoo Ocasttic Produt       49e.6  462.5 469.6  42.1      47.5 81.9        67.6 88.0  66.1  5.9 707.0
kapro of 0ads & NFS         19.0 180.6 M11.4  198.9       116.7 1.4        161.9 115.1   6.5 212.4  94.8
ued.. Fe                  146.6  9.11 1*.4  151.4        101.0 1.6         .1  1.7 1W.4 164.6 175.8
t"MS                       88.1  41.4 42.0  44.8         88.6 86.6         40.8  44.  46.0  47.8  44.1
Tata Un. of Reauroa           6.  648.1 18.0  676.0         624.1 6O7.4      799.6 n77.0 6.6 6n.8 91.4
Total Ep.diturAa            8S0.7 8U.0 814.4  188.0       M2.5 807.2       614.9 61.0 66.8  7:1.  68.6
Ttat Consumption            440.2 449.91 0 .9471.1        411.8 S0.2        "9.4 a8.7  89.2 695.0 68.9
Public, Control Cuw't       7.4  70.7 74.8  is.$         88.1 88.4        88.T 711.0   4.5  64.8  88.6
Private                   872.6 89.2 66.1  404.8        42.1 462.0        46.7 8a1.7   .? 571. 8.04.8
are". inveatast              6.4  68.1 61.5  64.9          44.2 89.0        75.6   2.8  87.6  96.9 110.9
Fti Capitl Fo_tlon         68.5  60.2 68.8  68.0         86.7 8.8         n.6  80.8  6s.8  96.7 110.0
Public Piped tInvtatmt   82.4  41.1 41.8  44.1          8.7 86.6         49.6  47.8  40.8  88.7  64.8
Csntral Go't            a0.6  1.1  81.7   8.S         5.9 16.9         99.4  82.1  84.5  80.2  88.0
Publi-c Qut riaan       11.8  7.4  9.0   9.9          11.6  0.8        11.8  14.1  14.0  6.8  18.8
Cul latitaa Lontol             1.6  0.6    0.7         0.8  0.1         0.6   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Private Seto             1S.1  10.0 99.0  18.9         18.0 11.0         19.0  88.0  $8.0  48.0  8.5
Chbapa In atud_             0.0   1.9 -2.1   1.9        -11.8  1.8         4.0   2.0   0.1   0.1   0.9
Export of Cue   tAW         188.1 180.1 116.8  141.0       97.6 1O8.1      114.5 125.0  158.6 146.8 162.6
am". FOB                 158.8 185.1 109.4  111.2       69.8 71.6        79.0  a7.0   6.0  06.9  118.6
tNB                      217.s  4.9 97.4  99.6          5.1 81.8          8.S  67.1  19.6  41.9  48.7
areas thbtiwl  Produt         468.0 41.0 466.4  496.9       496.1 11.7       a8.7 690.1  m.e 670.1 719.8
Cram Dumettc Savi.             99.8  1.6 16.9  S1.1           8.1  6.7         6.9  11.8  19.9  8s.8  40.2
Raac Cup                       80.9  810.6  4.  8U.9         89.1 80.8        67.4  70.0  67.7  81.6  61.6
Privet Tranefar               17.9  17.6 24.4  94.8          11.0 19.0        90.0  1.0  94.6  25.9  91.0
dram. Rtlta"l Savint.          47.7  81.1 6.8  97.6           8.6e 17.8       14.6  91.4  60.4  44.S  81.4
Car. Acct. Sal., exal traraf  -16.7 -62.0 -19.9  -W.1       40.4 -41.6       41.2 -60.9 -67.  -821.4 -49.5



50                       ANNX II
Page 4 of 7
._t4u 4=0 T VA"4. WM  CSC _
--49lWL- -.
SW6   1w 5       19    19t         1991  193  1t"   191064  19
MP Grew"fte                       -1.5   8.0        0.7   1.s          8.0  8.8   .8   4.1   4.8
av Gowgthi Rs".                  -1.1   5.9       .4.1   1.0         .4.7   5.1   4.1   4.5   4.7
10ARVite waroMN                   -.a    .         -r.1  -S.J         -0.8  0.s  o.9   1.4   1.a
Tota1 camejcapit 0,..tbet         4 .1   a.1       4.7    0.0          0.4  -0.1  0.4   0.1   0.8
Privet. Cana/Cepits Great RD"     -7.0   5.1        0.6    0.1         1.0   0.8  1.0   0.7  0.9
to.t 880 (l UN)                  7.8 780.7         MA.0  79.9        8.6809.5 93.8 97. S1.7
OI65                             110.1 114.8       1W7.  18.7        514.1 1S1.6 11.1 114.9 U5.
OMYW                              47.5  45.1       51.1 4..1          40.90  40.4  40.1  40.0  59.5
Teel Debt So-vice .T (la UI       9.2  76.9        17.0  79.7         t.a  08.0  W.   94.0  1.8
0.*  Service/S                    18.6  11.6       19.   18.1         10.6  11.8  10.0  11.1  tS.1
0*.  servc./00P                    6.8   4.9        9.0   4.1          8.0   4.8   8.   8.9  8.8
De" sevIes/mus                    8S.  81.7        8.0  18.8          18.1  80.5  11.4  11.1  80.8
Deb Service/lImm                  88.0  47.1       75.   84.4         1e.9  84.1  0.1  17.5  #.8
Gram lv.teA/P                      1.S1   3.5       9.1   11.4        18.0  14.1  14.1  14.7  1.7
*=moto fti PA                      s.e   9.J        1.1   1.1          1.3  2.1   a.2   S.0  r.o
1501B Swrlosse/4P                  6.9   5.6        1.5   5.4          9.e   8.7  4.9  0.0   6.7
lerginal Sevie. .O5.               0.1  0.4         1.1   4.9          8.6   0.1   0.1  0.2   0.2
PAOc ;ave It /                     *.8   O.S.0   9.1  7.9   0.9        7.5  6.1  6.0   8.1   7.7
311ic SIt pI.W^P                  -4.8  4.0        -4.6  -4.0         4.8  -1.6  -0.3   0.9   1.8
rtiv.t 1aew_eet/40P                4.7  8.9         5.7   4.8          8.8   5.7   0.1  0.5   0.0
Privtet Sei|e/pep                 11.1  0.4         7.0   7.4          8.0  8.8   8.1   5.0   6.9
ratie of Pb0 Ic /Priveo. wast.     1.9  2.          2.2   S.0          1.5   1.4   1.5   1.   1.0
Imc. CepItal/Sutpub .Rtio (CIl    -4.8  4.4       -18.5   8..          8.0   4.0  s.7  8.4   5.1
Gevremet _Sev ulP                 11.9  11.         9.2   9.7          l. 1.S  11.   15.0  15.5
Oeem,e  Tout Expeadit./           80.9  91t.3      19.7  10.4         80.8  19.8  10.7  18.1  1S.9
Svt Doeiclt or Surplus /SP       -11.0  4.5       -10.A  -9.7         4.7  -7.0  4.4  4.1  4.5
Zepi lit* 93 8D.le  (1980.10)    173.4 171.0      175.02       180.0       116.0 196.5  M0.1  35.0
mami Peucestee Oscho             8.13 4.80        1.63   8.3         1.80  1.0   1t.11  1.43  1.43
_eports Growth re                  0.80 -1.65      4.80   1.65         *.81  5.05  J.13  8.80  4.80
E _po.te/MP                       84.8 834.8       1.8  80.7          18.7  1.7   8.5  80.9  17.1
port. Oreh , et.- 4.80  8.81                      43.6    9.03        14.0t  4.71  1.80  8.4.  4.0
Z.pebe5/P                         40.7  41.2       40.0  81.0         85.0 t0.1  85.0  84.5  84.1
Curvet Ace.. ael grt. (In U)     -96.4  -110.6    - .4.     . -1M..7       -1.5 411. -190.9 -186.8
O"ent A _ceaVSP                   -4.1  -7.7       4.1   4.0         -11.1 -10.5  4.8  -7.9  .7.0
werio Term. of Tredewb(1 0       81.6  1O.8       80.8  80.0        n7.  71.7  75.0  74.9  75.7
We..readu Items
faveetees Good. Repor Sleettg                            8.0         6.4   5.1   1.4   1.1   1.4
on(i  respect 09
boreese Officlel des
bud 5f5.4 eatle. end prjea4tilems.



-51 -                      ANNBXU1
-  51: -*3 5.1 D 5Pae5 of 7
WS  iws  19w   am             is    see1         sIVI  1o     see9  1194  us
A. EUPOuhs Of Gmd &            8S5.0  M.? 458.  4".6          836.0 vs.?        494.8 4111.1 M.9 51.1  401
1. Nv          im.e fdb     8.9 08.9 aw& 876.              7  .11.9  U.?     16.115.6665.5 e      5.9 440.1
8. Nea-U cs Isrelcs,         61.0  71.6  91.t 10.1          8.1 11.0         1.$ 1187.5 147.8 18.4 162.0
8.  stt of tow. aW             448.1 811.5   .617.7           45 .4  M.         67.6  11.51 15.6 76.6 609
1. I.te t of ,9. fob        "0.5 40.0 4.9 8.1                e. 45.1         U5.1 45 III.1  on6.? e6.2
8. *e r-4%a    Seriem        118.8 119.5 1J.6 149.5          1.?11.1          111.4 1814.1 171.5 117.1 1.7
C. a_smurc. bIagee             -0.1 -145.6 -148.4 -10.9      -1.8 -184.?       . 6 .591.8 .90.T _M.6 -M-.1
0. NMt Fecter Ias               40.5   1.S  81.1   .8          1P.2 1#.0         S8.  83.9  5l.9  41.7  48.5
1. Factor flesIt4. 8Q.6   0.6  14.5  61.6                   5.6  71.6         78.6  90.7  99.8  104.1 111.1
(Wc works", romittaac..)   62.1  n9.?  61.1  61.6        5.6  49.6         74.1  5.2 1 9.1  95.9 100.0
1. Pet.. Pat t               35.1  19.5  60.4  5.           s.?  86.6          1.1   5.9  60.8  6.4  e5.6
(0I/    1 tat 400)       45.8  5.9  51.9  1.6           38.1  85.0        81.5    . 5.   611.611 64.?
F. M" C.rreat Treswfar
(excluding private tron04")
F. Corret Ace. gas1e           -41.6 -43.4 .J3 -124.6         -9.8 -160.?      -M7.? 0      1.6 -195.9 -15.8
0. Lg-TTre Capita lfl           18.9  18.0  51.6  1.9         144.5  183.9      10.1  04.  154.9 147.8 181.6
Off 5.1. Capitol Cre"t        19.2 1 4.7  5.6  11.6         1?.5  51.6         60.1  5.9  6e.9  15.6  65.4
Nt Direct Foreign Investmnt    0.?   1.1   1.8   1.81         1.8   1.6         6.0   7.0  12.0  15.6  1IL.-
et CapitmI N.LT              -11.0   .    4.8   5.0         -8.0   0.4         a.0  81.8  84.0  5.9  60.r
0i.bor_eent.                 46.1  84.0  5.9  86.1         61.4  64.1        6.8  n.71  83.0  89.0  95.8
_"paeso                      86.0  78.6  67.1  5.1         ".4  40.7         04.8  Z.6   7.9  53.0  s4.6
Oer  LT U   Slm (Ne)           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         75.7  96.9         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



-52 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
2 Juna i                                                                             IIDM:L IS    - we CANSE        ADAMTIE
-4S4P-: 7AL 5.2 ALMC  OP PAVNES (Cen't)-
_--------(SII ~~Curren Us del for. mlI tI el)---
1s6   196   17  196            t1w   190           1991  192   18  1e494  145
H. Total Other Item (ot)          10.9   8.8  481.6  65.5          46.5  76.0        -61.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
1. Chang. in Eat. Avrreae      81.<  78.$  48.9  ".t          -252.4  27.2        '41.e   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
2. R.ackedulilag Savings        0.0   0.0   0.0  67.1          2t1.4  20.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
3. Eaternal Debt Castel lstic   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           60.2   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
4. Other Cap.. nel 5£ A SW    -20.7  10.1 -75.4  -4.8          -12.6   .8           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
I. Chang" In Not Reeeevee         I8.6  -4.0  76.2 -19.8         -45.7 -106.9       -106.6 -.6 -41.0 -42.2 47.0
1. Not Credit fre the ID        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           8.1   0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
2. Other Reaerve Change        18.8  -4.0  76.2 -19.0         -105.8 -100.0      .105.6  -25.6  -1.9 -42.2  -r7.0
J. Realdual UWfineaced fGa         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         287.0  146.0 106.6  68.8  87.8
Share of CP (CGrret USN)
1. Resoure blanme              -T.9  -10.9  -O.5  -11.2         -8.0  -9.7        -12.8 -12.1  -11.0  -O,7  -8.7
8. External Interest Due        2.5   2.2   2.0   1.5            2.5   2.1          2.6   2.S   2.6   2.5   2.8
8. Current Accont bolanc       -4.0  -6.9  -.2  -7.7           -4.2  -4.0         -11.2 -l0.S  -9.J  -7.0  -7.0
4. LT Capital mIle. (lIn  0)    1.8   1.0   8.8   4.9            9.5   9.6          5.2   4.0   5.9   6.0   6.2
5. NDt Credit Ire the 1F        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.5   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
0aemrs"du. Item:
COP (.1 iI ne pf USN)            1046  1a6  1ism   1619           1      89          2928  21.   2211   2440  2619
Fereig &Shunage Reao-ee.v:
1. Intl. Reervee (IFS lid)      4.1   8.9   6.6   4.2
2. Gold (end-yr) LeadenPrice    0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01
8. Oroe_ Raeervee eli. GId      4.1   8.9   5.6   4.2
4.  re.. Rearvee meathelaprt  -0.a  -4.2  -1.7  -1.2             1.0   8.0          4.8   4.4   4.7   8.1   5.8
Efchane Rato. (L:ia/U6):
1. lMe. Off.X-Ra,te. prled-aw   440.8 846.8 80.8 297,9         89.0 22.8          270.0 270.0 27m.0 20.0 270.0
2.  m. Off.X-te. and-priod   876.1  S2.  W6.0  800.0           2.4  M8.5          270.0 270.0 20.0 270.0 270.0
S. Real Eff. X-Rate I p...      1.1   1.4   0.4   0.6
(   depreciation)



- 53 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
2 Am 1911                                                                             8OEM, SA  I - &SAs CAM WrTh A0A4S7,E
----------8 : TA     . CePAL OOVWr CNL 8 0P4ATIONS  -------
-- --         -----(-n -Cret CPA Prance, b i   e)-          -
----C--AL----           -   11A-              ----------mj sIZ0----
1987  1lo6            s1e    1M9O            19911   192   1998   1944
I Total Rewava 1/                        G.e   616.             44.9   49.9           57.6   68.0   78.8   8.4
Piacl Raven"                          80.2   47.6            84.4   40.8            47.8   8.0   6.5   78.8
Trad Related Rav nu.                 27.7   25.6           18.2   16.4            24.4   29.8   82.0   34.8
Wbn-Trit" Related Ravanue            25.S   250            21.2   2S.9            28.1   26.0  aS.8   39.8
Non-FiPel Raewa.                       6.6   11.7             9.e    8.0             8.8    6.8    0.8    9.4
Oil Royl6ties                         1.9    1.8            1.8    1.4             1.2    1.      1.2    1.0
Pon-01I Revenue                       0.9   10.4            0.0    8.0             T9    7.0    7.3 9      .4
Ext. ititeret from PE*                  1.6    2.2            1.2    1.6             1.8    1.8    1.6    2.1
2. Teota rsxp,ditura A Lendine          112.4  107.8             6.0  100.1           111.2  111.   1115.6  119.4
3. Current ESapnditura                   00.7   74.0            66.1   70.?            75.9   78.0   77.8   7.4
Salary, panoian A Sckolaradpo          82.4   48.6           44.1   48.8            40.9   4S.1   42.5   41.9
Interest on Oaautic DaOt               2.0    8.0             2.8    4.7             S.7    4.2    4.4    4.8
Intereat on EhatrnIl Oct              5.7    7.4            12.2   10.6            14.2   18.0   16.2   16.6
Oheir Calindouwe" & Tro,fora           20.6   15.0            9.0   11.9            19.0   12.4   14.2   16.a
1ocial Socto,                        2.6    2.8             1.4    8.4             8.6    8.e    4.2    6.8
Man-Soeal Sector                    1t.0   12.5             7.6    0.8             8.4    6.8   10.0   10.0
Fl: Oudgatry Contrib. to PIP           8.1    8.6             1.4    0.§             1.0    2.0    2.6    5.1
4. Pri;ry Savings, *xcl. Interest        -1.5   -8.7            -9.6  -4.4              0.1    8.0   16.8   2s.9
S. Total Capital Expenditure a Lending   81.7   88.5            25.e   26.9            29.4   82.2   34.8   86.2
6. P,r_ma dlUre-                                                 2.0    2.8             5.9    4.7    8.0    8.6
7, Co'S Oaficit. omit. b1e;e            -81.0  -4.0            -81.1  -60.2           -88.4  -40.1  -4..8  -4.1
S. ChanWg  In Epand.-rel. ArrearO        2.2   14.8            -18.7   -2.2           -18.4   -8.0   -8.0   -8.0
S,tern,l                               5.7    6.8           -14.1    5.8           -12.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
Oaaa.tic                               10.8    7.7            0.4   -7.7           -4.8   -8.0   -8.0  -4.0
9. Adjuatm*nt/4p (10-7-8)                                        0.1    0.0             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
10. Oworall Deficit, cash be*l, (11.14)   -29.6  -81.7         -44.7  -t2.4          -68.8  -81.2  -44.S   4. 1
i1. tdontif; d Finaftn;nG(2#1)           29.6   81.7          -40.8   20.4            -9.0   11.8   18.8   18.1
12. So_atic Sareo                         8.8   -1.6             s.8.    8.4         -24.4   -7.6   -9.1   -9.0
aikingo Syte                         a.8   -2.8            -4.7   10.8           -18.?   -0.8   -0.8   -0.8
;N-b"king                             0.0    0.7             2.8   -0.2            -0.4   -0.1    0.0    0.0
Salae of Aeets                                                       8.4            8.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Banking OvS. Reatb.                                         -2.9  -10.8           -18.7   -7.2  -4.8   -8.?
to. aterral Sarce"                       28.8   88.8           -68111.8   17.0         18.4  l1.1   24.4   24.1
Total Official Orunte                 17.2   21.6           29.7   12.0            19.8   14.6   18.6   16.0
Pnajact Oiab;,_eeta                   10.8   19.9           11.4   14.0            is.    18 s.8   16.8   17.0
Amvti0atian C"                       -14.4  -10.0          40.2  -11.1             4.6  -10.8   -r7.t   4.9
taoa In Arreera. pr, ic.              12.5    9.6          -86.4    2.1           -4.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
14.   pometial Finacint" Actuall.ead                           128.8   82.1           77.7   a9.7   29.8   24.0
Ms*rnwdue Item:
uinr.a.t  Rm /P  )                       u1.9   12.8             9.2    9.7            10.6   11.8   19.8   18.0
Primry Sblnow/0P ()                     -4.8   -1.2             -2.0   -1.2             0.0    1.4    2.7    8.6
Toea I0"p ./8P (S)                       23.9    2.8            19.7   19.4            20.8   19.8   ts.7   is.t
Ow't OWficit (-)IUP (3). coo. biels     -11.0   -9.8           -10.8  .4.7             s9.7   -7.9   4d.4   -8.2
No"lnal GP at arkot prices              49.0  4A.1             407.8  816.9           847.0   811.0  6U81  6818.9
-I Cacludng offeil gSource  Official data:Sank  id- - -a--a-f- - -  --- -  -- - --i- - --- - ---------
*t  alud;"e ett;c;ael gean+nr       Sereae  W-tgisi  doe.6an Berlnd VIP tf *atltntz on  proecations.



- 54 -            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
Benin
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section Is Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to IDA                   July 1990
(b)  Appraisal mission                                   December 1990
(c)  Completion of negotiations                         May 1991
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                       July 1991
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section Ills Special Conditions
Prior to credit effectiveness and release of the first tranche
of US$ 25 million, the Borrower will haves i) issued an invitation to bid
for the privatization (through the sale of assets) of its brewery, la
Beninoiseg and il) signed a contract for the financial audit of its cement
company, SCOX
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$ 15 million equivalent
would be dependent upon satisfactory progress under the structural
adjustment program, including a satisfactory macroeconamic framework, and
implementation of the following measures 
(a) Agreement has been reached with the Association on a three-
year rolling public Investment program for 1992-94 and the
applicable portion thereof has been carried out as planned
(para. 55), and on budgetary allocations to be appropriated
in the 1992 budget for the agricultural, education, and
health sectors, for road maintenance, and government
utility consumption (para. 50); and the execution of the
1991 budget shows that an equilibrium in the Government's
currv'nt primary operations has been attained, or corrective
measures to achieve such equilibrium have been implemented
(para. 44).
(b) The Government has taken specific measures, agreed by IDA,
to enhance recovery of bank loans, lncluding reforms of
judicial procedures, land title arrangements and records,
and changes in commercial laws (pars. 63).



- 55 -                 ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) The financial audit of SCO has been coMpleted ad an actiom
plan adopted to Implement the recommendations ececeptable to
IDA; agreed reforms on the petroleum distribution and
taxation system, Including SONCOP, have been fully
implemented; financial restructuring measures for 0188 have
been agreed upon vith the Association, and have been
implemented; SONAR's monopoly has been eliminated and
private insurance regulations have been adopted; COJBUIF
hbs been divested of Its commercial activities; COST bas
been dissolved and its data collection activities, as Well
as the control of International transportation arrangements
have been transferred to the Ministry of 1quiprunt and
Transport; and an invitation to bid has been issued for the
privatization of SOCOGII (paras. 65-68).
(d) All remaining Import licensing requirements have be"
removed (para. 71), and the Borrower has enacted a public
procurement code (para. 49).
(e) The Borrower has Implemented the recomendations of the
organizational audit of its Ministry of Finance agreed to
by the Association, and agreement has been reached on en
action plan for Implementing the recommendations of the
organizational audits of the Ministries of Education and
Health (para. 57); a net reduction of at least 2,000 In the
number of permanent civil servants has occurred during
calendar year 1991 and, thereafter, net reductions bave
occurred at a rate equivalent to 2,000 per year, all with
the elimination of the related staff positions (para. 57).
(f) The Borrower has adopted an education policy, strategy, and
action plan acceptable to the AssocLation and has adopted
regulations to govern entrance into its university (para.
76).
Disbursement of the third tranche of US$ 15 million equivalent
would be dependent upon satisfactory progress under the structural
adjustment program, Including a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, and
Implementation of the following measures:
(a) A three-year rolling public lnvestment program for 1993-95
has been agreed with the Association and the applicable
portion of the public Investment program agreed for 1992-94
has b en carried out as planned (para. 55)t agreement has
been reached with the Association on budgetary allocations
to be appropriatee in the 1993 budget for the agricultural,
education, and health sectors, for road maintenance, and
government utility consumption, and the budgetary
allocations agreed to In the 1992 budget have been utilLsed
as planned (para. 50); and execution of the 1992 budget
indLcates that the targeted surplus in the Goverment's
current prlmary operations has been or is being generated
(para. 44).



- 56 -            ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(b) Revised organigrams and staffing plans for the Ministries
of Education and Health, as recommended by the
organisational audits, have been Implementeds
organizational audits, under terms of reference agreed upon
by IDA, have commenced for the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport, the Ministry of Plan and Statistics, the
Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Public Enterprises, and
the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (para. 57); net
reductions in the number of permanent civil servants have
occurred in 1992 and thereafter at a rate equivalent to
2,000 per year, with the elimination of related staff
positions (para. 57).
(c) The Borrower has adopted legislation to implement the
import taxation and industrial protection system agreed
upon with the Association (para. 70); the Borrower and the
Association have reviewed the implementation of legislation
pertaining to investment promotion, labor relations, and
commercial activity and recommendations acceptable to the
Association of such a review have been implemented
(para. 71).
(d) The privatization strategy for SONICOG, agreed upon by the
Association, has been fully implemented; the maritime
sector has been liberalized, and COBENAM has been
integrated into a regional maritime consortium or has been
dismantled and an invitation to bid issued for the purchase
of its assets (paras. 67-68).
(e) The Borrower has adopted a university scholarship policy
acceptable to the Association (para. 76).
(f) An action plan to improve the Borrower's competitiveness in
international markets, agreed with the Association, has
been adopted and implemented (para. 71).



- 57 -               ANNEX IV
81bY411                      BKNIN: Stti of arId   *   urv  LWa.  NM Credits
(In M IIIau of U.S. dllas, as of brch 81, 1081) V
Orlglm  prilnipal 2         Dlaud Ord  OdtsWu V
IDA    IBRD    WAL             IDA     10F    TOTAL
A. filLY DISUSMED 001* EIS                     80.84    -        80.84         76.83    -        76.88
8. FULY DISIUED SUR D mS                       125.40    -      125.40        125.40    -       125.40
C. ALL DiSMSiNS CITS                           1608.00    -     168.00        110.28    -       110.28
Frsry  1                                      2.80    -         2.80          3.24    -         3.24
Zou Provina    al Dsv't                      2D.00    -        20.00         18.81    -        18.81
Sns0 lIfl bd hOv't II                        18.00    -       18.00         21.81    -        21.81
Forestry I (lIpe.Sna1)                        2.80     -        2.80          3.17     -        8.17
Nzusto HIWrlbctrlc                           15.00    -        15.00         14.29    -        14.29
Tetiwcal Asstistmo  11                        5.00    -         5.00          3.82    -         3.82
Second ater SwPIy                            10.00    -        10.00          8.16    -         8.18
RMilo Enterpris RIse AbIIltatIon             15.00    -        15.00          3.49    -         8.49
Trwuart Infrast. Rmib. a iblnt.              19.50    -        19.50          8.92    -         8.92
soa md Borgou RuaI Osv't                     21.00    -        21.00         15.93    -        15.98
T-eloaumnlcatlons                            16.00    -        18.00          5.44    -         5.44
aealth Serviues Dsvt                         18.60    -        18.80          4.82    -         4.82
Rural SavIqp & Loan Riubli ltatlIn            2.50    -         2.50          0.78    -         0.78
0. 8WM TOTAL FOR AL. LO                         -    -    -                     -    -    -
E. WM   TOTAL FM  ALL 0IEDIS                  372.24    -       372.24        312.81     -      312.31
F. WAM  TOTAL FOR ALL LO   & CREDITS          372.24    -       372.24        312.31     -      312.31
V Dilngrapuioles betn  orlglnal sd disrsud iants are ds to f Ilctations
In  UR ad"   ratb In perlod of dlabsumnt. Credits d inawted In SO
ar dam  In USI; eWIvalent based an tho e dWs rates In effect at tin of nhptiatlas;
V OtrlginmI aiat8  net of anW omsllathIr;
Note: total debt canom latimIs twint to IU$ 8.78 miliIon eqjlvalent.
Sum: IBM and IDA sttmt  of loom ad deslw nt credits, Ibrch 1991.



- 5s -
Sm v
RPUILIC OF BENIE
STATENS?T OF DEVLOPN   STRATEGY
TN TIMI CONTEXT OF A
SECOND STRCITURAL ADJUSTHIT PROGRAM
WAY 31, 1991



- 59 -
REPUBLIC OF UNEIN
STATUINT OF DEVELOPN? SITRATEGY
nTagS CONTUT OF A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTEENT PROGRAU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  IToRODUCTION  . . . .        . . .           .  .  .  .   . . . . . 60
II. ON-GOING REFORMS   . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . 60
III. THE COMPRZNSIVE REFORI PROGRAM   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
1.  Public Sector Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .63
1.1 Public Finance and Reform of the
Fiscal System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
1.2 Public Investment ProgramiLng . . . . . . . . . . . 67
1.3 Administrative Reform and the
Personnel Reduction Program . . . . . . . . . . . .69
1.4 Public Enterprise Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . .70
2.  Reform of the Financial System   ..... . . . ..  ... 73
S.  Trade Policy Reform, Deregulation, and
Private Sector Promotion  ............... . 75
4.  The 8ocial Dimensions of the Program  . . . . . . . . . . 77
5.  sector Policies   .................... . 78
5.1 Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
5.2 Transport and Transit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
5.3 Public Utilities   . ................  82
5.4   gnergy  .  .  *   *   ..  .   .   . .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .   . 83
5.5 Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
5.6 Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
5.7 Environment . . . . .  . . .   . . * *  *  . .. .. 86
IV* MANAGUEN  OF TSE PROGRAM  .                 . . . . .  . . . . . . o * . 86



- 60 -
1.        INTRODUCTION
1.        Since 1983, Benin has faced an increasingly difficult economic
and financial situation, reflected in a slowdown in output growth, a
decline in per capita incomes, deteriorating economic and social
infrastructure, and worsening domestic and external imbalances. The main
cause has been a series of major problema affecting the management of
government finances, public enterprises and the banks. In addition, the
political context of the 1972-1989 period has not provided a favorable
economic environment for private investment. Since 1986, economic changes
in the international environment (particularly declining commodity prices
and the depreciation of the Nigerian naira relative to the CPA franc) have
aggravated Benin's domestic disequilibria and distortions.
2.        The corrective measures adopted by the Government in 1986-88
proved insufficient to halt the economic and financial decline. In these
circumstances, it became imperative, by 1989, to adopt a Structural
Adjustment Program with the support of the Bretton Woods institutions. The
first of the program's annual tranches was executed under very difficult
circumstances, characterized in particular by the total collapse of the
banking system in 1989, increasing budgetary problems that delayed wage and
salary payments, the loss of a complete academic year through the closure
of all schools and universities, and the impossibility of implementing some
of the major components of the program.
3.        Against this backdrop of economic, political and social crisis,
the Confdrence des Forces Vives de la Nation was held from February 19-28,
1990. Among other achievements, this Conferencet (i) reaffirmed the
commitment to liberal economic principles and policies; and (ii)
established a transitional government for a period of one year, to be
responsible for preparing multiparty elections in February-March 1991 and
formulating the necessary rules for establishing a constitutional state
founded on democratic principles. These profound changes in economic and
political orientation have created a more favorable environment in which
the Government's objectives for the fir. t phase of its Structural
Adjustment Program can be pursued; indeed, the consensus developed at the
National Conference on the need to continue the program of economic reforms
provides the Government with an opportunity to eliminate the most serious
domestic distortions and structural rigidities emanating from 17 years of
economic and financial mismanagement.
II.       ON-GOING REFORMS
4.        The Beninese Government recognizes that the short-term
stabilization of the economy cannot be viewed in isolation from the
prospects for long-term. development.  In order to eliminate the disastrous
effects of the prolonged economic crisis and provide a basis for
sustainable growth, a time feme of between 10 and 15 years must be
adopted. Beginning in 1983, and in an attempt to achieve recovery and
financial stabilization, the authorities adopted the following corrective



- 61 -
measuress (i) improved programling of public and parastatal investments;
(ii) mobilization of domestic and external resources, and elimination of
Irregularities affecting salary and personnel payments; (iii) a policy of
establishing remunerative producer prices for the main cash crops; (iv)
reforms in the public enterprise sector: (v) deregulation of
transportationg and (vi) a policy of realistic pricing of public services.
Nevertheless, the resulting improvements did not have a sufficiently
significant Impact on the economic and financial crisis, the causes of
whlch are mainly structural. Faced with this crisis and the general
economic and social collapse, in 1989 the Government implemented a wide-
ranging financial and structural adjustment program (SAL I), with IDA and
IMF support. The basic objective was to achieve a real growth rate of GDP
of about 32 per year within a viable macroeconomic framework throught (i)
a reduction in the scale and role of the public sector in the economy, in
order to make it more efficient in fulfilling its new function of providing
key public services essential to private sector development; (ii)
strengthening the management of public sector resources by improving public
investment planning, and of those public enterprises remaining in the
Government's portfolio; (iii) restructuring the banking system to provide
it with a sound basis for resuming its role of providing financial
intermediation services; and (iv) reforming incentive policies in order to
encourage private sector initiative.
5.        This ambitious program very soon encountered implementation
problems, and the overall performance of SAL I was much poorer than
expected. The targets for budgetary revenue were not achieved, essentially
because of the collapse of the banking system (which deepened the
recession), the contraction of domestic demand in transit and port traffic,
as well as the increasing inefficiency of the customs and tax authorities.
As a result, the Government was unable to cover current budgetary
expenditures and meet the costs of some of the essential components of the
program. Implementation of the planned reforms was also adversely affected
by the ensuing political and social crisis. A high level of additional
domestic and external arrears was accumulated, the government investment
program could not be executed as planned, and the progress made in repaying
frozen bank deposits was virtually negligible. The performance of the
secondary and tertiary sectors was considerably affected by the prolonged
absence of an effective banking system, together with the decline in the
income of a large portion of the urban population, due to delays in the
payment of salaries to government employees and teachers. Consequently, in
spite of a significant increase in value added in the primary sector, real
GDP fell by 0.7 percent, and average per capita incomes reached their
lowest level in five years.
6.        Despite the overall poor performance, important progress was
achieved in many areas under SAL I. In all, 1,590 permanent government
employees left the civil service under the voluntary departure Program,
thereby contributing to a 4 percent reduction in the wage bill.
Substantial progress had already been made in rationalizing the public
enterprise sector as a result of the parastatal enterprise rehabilitation
project financed by IDA and Switzerland, and this was been further
consolidated by the liquidation of three enterprises, the successful
privatization of two others, sustained efforts to privatize six more, and



- 62 -
the completion of diagpostic studies on eight others. As a result, the
public sector portfolio, which at the end of 1986 consisted of 60
Industrial and commercial enterprises, will be reduced to 21 enterprises by
the end of June 1991 In the banking sector, the process of liquidating
one of the three government banks has been completed, and the schedule for
winding down the other two has been accelerated. After a long search for
partners villing to establish a new private bank, four coamercial banks are
now operating In the country. The transLtional Government introduced more
flexibility into the regulations governirg economic activities. These
included the adoption of a new investmen'. code in MWay 1990 and measures
designed to facilitate the smoother functioning of markets throughs I) a
revised Commercial Low which simplifies the regulation of coamercial
activities; and (1i) revised labor legislation to make hiring and dismissal
easier. Finally, an Increase in current revenues since April 1990 has made
it possible to pay the wages and salaries Included in the budget on a
current basis.
III.      THE COaSPREESM  RENFM PROGRAM
7.        In light of these developments, the newly-elected Government,
strongly supported by the entire population, has committed itself to
Intensifying the current structural and financial reform program, and
rehabilitating the country's economic and social infrastructure.
Accordingly, the previous program has been substantially strengthened and
expanded, In line with the country's new economic and political
circumstances. In order to respond more effectively to the challenges, the
Government has decided to deepen and extend the scope of the reforms by
implementing a comprehensive adjustment program that incorp)rates a
fundamental re-orientation of economic policy. Covering the 1991-93
period, the program's main objective will be to establish tae conditions
for a sustained recovery of economic activity and for improvements in the
provision of basic social services, while protecting the incomes of the
most vulnerable segments of the population. To this end, the program is
designed to restore the viability of public finances and the balance of
payments, contain the rate of increase of domestic prices and costs to less
than 3 percent, and achieve a real CDP growth rate of 4 p rcent after 1993
(exceeding the population growth rate of 3.2 percent).  The program will
have the following priority objectivest
(l)       the restoration of equilibrium in the Government's primary
operations in 1991, followed by increasing surpluses in 1992
and 1993;
(ii)      the administrative restructuring of the key ministries,
together with a targeted reduction in the number of
pernanent government employees;
(iii)     completing the process of restructuring the financial
sector, and the establishment of an appropriate legal and
supervisory framework for conducting sound financial
intermediation;



- 63 -
(v)      waccelerating the process of restructuring the public
enterprise sector through further reductions in the
Government's portfolio and rehabilitation of a small group
of strategic public enterprisess
(v)       lmprovements In the Institutional and regulatory framework,
in order to promote the development of the private sector
and increase economLc competitiveness;
(Vi       Implementation of measures to prepare the basis for a
thorough reform of the national education system; and
(vii)     implementation of an emergency social program to mitigate
the effects of restructuring On the most vulnerable social
groups and to provide for the speedy rehabilitation of
social infrastructure, in the context of incorporating
social considerations into the adjustment program.
111.1     Public Sector Reform
111.1.1   Public Finance and Reform of the Fiscal System
8.        The Government's objective in this important area is to attain
primary equilibrium in its 1991 current financial operations (excluding
Interest payments), and to produce a surplus equivalent to 2.7 percent of
GD? by 1993. To thls end, measures have been adopted for restoring the
level of government revenue and reducing the relative share of primary
expenditures In GDP. Thus, the revenuelGDP ratio, which fell to 9.2
percent iu 1989, is expected to rise to 12.3 percent in 1993, close to the
level achieved in the 1980's. The program also calls for strict management
of expenditures, vith a view to reducing by a considerable margin the share
of total current expenditures salaries, pensions and scholarships.
Includitg investment costs and social and emergency expenditures, as well
as Interest payments on the external debt, the Government's overall deficit
(comitment basis, excluding grants) will remain relatively large in 1991
(9.7 percent of GDP), but would tten decline to the equivalent of 6.4
percent of GD In 1993.
9.        To achieve these objectives, sustained efforts will be necessary
In the following areas: (i) improvements in the collection and
mobilization of revenue through the enforcement of the existing tax system
and mproved organisation of the customs and taz services; (ii) containing
and restructuring current expenditures, and adequate provision of resources
for covering social expenditures; (Cii) budgeting of sufficient counterpart
funds to finance the public Investment program; (iv) reform of the tax
system and services in order to liprove resource mobilization and
rationtlize the Incentives provided by the tax system; (v) strengthening of
budgetaxy and accounting proceduresS (vi) restructuring and reducing the
size of the civil service; (vii) settlement of domestic and external
arrears; and (viii) financing a program for rehabilitating basic
administrative and social infrastructure.



- 64 -
10.       Resource Mobilizations  The Governmeat is fully aware that large-
scale efforts must be made to mobilize the resources necessary for
achieving the objectives of reducing deficits and stabilizing public
finances. Given the changes in the tax base over recent years (after the
collapse of the banking system, the closure of many public enterprises, and
the rapid growth of the informl sector), reforms in tax legislation and a
redoubling of efforts to mobilize revenue are absolutely necessary in order
to achieve the plamed objectives. Building on the efforts under SAL 1,
the program includes a detailed action plan for increasing revenue
generation by the Customs and Tax Directorates, with the support of French
and DIf technical assistance. Short-term increases in revenue require the
strict enforcement of all existing taz regulations, strengthening of border
controls In order to reduce smuggling, and provision of the necessary
resources for meeting the operational needs of the tax collectiot and
parafiscal revenue agencies. In this connection, the Government in
February 1991 revoked the 1989 decision granting a 30 percent discount on
the CI? value of dutiable bmports. Sustained efforts are being made to
ensure that the viable public enterprises service their debt arising from
subsidiary loans. In the medium term, revenue mobilization should be
assisted by a rigorous and sustained application of the IM-assisted tax
reform program, with the objectives of: (i) simplification of the tax and
tariff systems; (Ui) adaptation of fiscal legislation to the informal
sector; (111) elimination of tax fraud; and (iv) strengthening of the
entire tax administration system.
11.       An important component of the tax system reform is the
introduction in May 1991 of the general expenditure tax.  This tax hac
replaced the multiplicity of existing taxes on domestic goods, which
generate very little revenue, and is applicable to both domestic goods ani
services and to imports. Other tax measures include the elimination in
1991 of the large number of exemptions from customs duties and other taxes
currently enjoyed by enterprises and other organizations that are parties
to government contracts, including projects financed vith external
assistance, and all contributions to the National Investment Fund. Because
of the rapid increase in illegal imports of petroleum products from Nigeria
and the recent evolution of crude oil prices, a diagnostic study of
petroleum taxation and the distribution system for petroleum products was
completed in May 1991, and its recomnendations will be implemented before
end October 1991.
12.       The Government's program for the strengthening of the Customs and
Tax Directorates is already supported by France, the IMF and other donors.
An organizational audit of the Ministry of Finance was completed in May
1991, with French technical assistance, and will be especially important in
providing a basis for restructuring the Customs Directorate. A new system
of incentive payments will be put in place for customs agents, so as to
recognize their performance in mobilizing revenue, and an integrated
computerized management system for customs clearance was introduced in
April 1991. In February 1991, a system for the pre-shipment inspection of
imports was established with the assistance of a Swiss firm; this is
expected to contribute to both a more accurate assessment of import duties
and the preparation of more reliable external trade statistics. Finally,
the Government will allocate the necessary budget resources for the on-



- 65 -
going training of tax collection agents, and will increase budgetary
allocations to ensure the efficient operation of the Customs and Tax
Directorates.
13.       The Government wlll continue to take steps to strengthen
budgetary and accounting 2rocedures, as launched in 1989.  The legislation
on government procurement will be reviewed and revised before the end of
1991; to this end the Government establishrd a commission in December 1990
which is currently operational. With the technical assistance already
obtained for revising the budget nomenclature, provisions have been made in
the 1991 law of finance to accelerate budgetary unification and to
strengthen budget preparation, execution, and monitoring. The Government
has also identified specific measures necessary for Improving the
accounting system and financLal management of the Treasury.
14.       Current Expendituress  Because of the limited Increases in
revenues which can be expected over the adjustment period, the program will
aim at a real reduction in primary expenditures, and will seek to establish
a balance between the personnel expenditures in the broad sense (i.e.
wages, salaries, pensions and scholarships) on the one hand, and
expenditures on supplies and equipment, especially in the social sectors
(education and health) on the other. The Government has already limited
1991 budgetary allocations for scholarships to the level awarded in 1990,
and has adopted a plan to control scholarship awards after 1991. From
1991, the allocation of budget resources for government consumption of
water, electricity and telephone services will be adequately planned.
Budgetary priorities will be modified In favor of non-wage recurrent
expenditures in vital services for agriculture (particularly extension and
research), infrastructure (including road maintenance), education and
health. In this connection, the 1990 budget allocated CPAP 1.2 billion for
education (excluding scholarships) and ClAP 1.1 billion for health.
Beginning in 1991, credits approximating more closely the needs of these
sectors will be provlded, in order to provide greater protection for these
vital services. Thus the 1991 budgetary allocations for non-wage recurrent
expenditures in education and health have been increased to CFAP 1.4
million and CPAP 1.2 million, respectively. This level of expenditures
will be facilitated by financing from the Social Fund established in 1990
with World Bank assistance. Over the program period, annual budgetary
allocations for education, health, agricultural services,
infrastructurelroad maintenance, and for government consumption of public
utilities will be reviewed and agreed with the World Bank.
15.       The Government intends to reduce primary current expenditures
from an estimated 10.9 percent of GDP in 1990 to 9.6 percent by 1993, with
the share of personnel costs declining from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to
6.9 percent at the end of 1993; the share of personnel costs in total
primary expenditures would decline from a four-year high of 80.9 in 1989 to
71.7 percent by end-1993. The planned reduction in the wage bill will
result from the policy of limiting new recruitment (with one person hired
for every three vacancies occurring in the interim period until the new
staffing plan it introduced), anticipated retirements, and the new civil
service departure program; this program will be financed by the donors on
the basis of management audits of key ministries, as planned in the



- 66 -
administrative reform component of the structural adjustment program.
During the course of the program, it is intended to reduce the number of
government employees by 16 percent below the December 1990 level.
16.       Payment Arrearss  The scale of domestic arrears is a major
bottleneck to the stabilization and successful management of government
finances. At end-December 1990, domestic arrears were estimated at CFAF 41
billion for goods and services and CAPA 23 billion for wage arrears
resulting from non-payment of certain promotions and allowances. This
excludes the three months of salary arrears incurred in 1988. In December
1990 one month of these was settled; due to the shortage of available
resources, the Government has made a decision to postpone the payment of
the remaining two months, at least for the duration of the program period.
Since it is equally impossible to settle the other arrears through cash
payments, the Government intends to reduce them over a period of time by
offering a series of options to creditors that produce an equivalent
financial outcome. These options would consist of consolidation over a
long period, consolidation with a discount over a shorter period, or
conversions into equity holdings in public enterprises. Two separate
commissions have been established to explore and elaborate these options.
Pending the completion of their work, the financial program provides for
CFAP 3.3 billion to reduce these arrears in 1991, (of which 0.6 million for
salaries, pension and scholarships), and for CPAP S.0 billion each in 1992
and 1993. The Government will undertake to settle all external arrears
left unpaid in 1989 and 1990, and ineligible for rescheduling. With the
assistance of the World Bank, discussions are underway for a possible
buyback operation of arrears owed by government financial institutions
currently in the process of liquidation.
17.       Rehabilitation Programs  The Government attaches the greatest
importance to the preparation and financing of an emergency expenditure
program in the context of the social dimensions of adjustment. The long
and acute economic and financial crisis has led to a neglect of basic
administrative and social infrastructure and rendered the Government unable
to meet even a minimm of essential needs In education, health and social
and administrative services. To address this problem, the Government has
made budgetary allocations in 1991 and 1992 to finance the necessary
expenditures, with the support of the Bank's structural adjustment credit.
This program will also include a component for rehabilitating physical
infrastructure and purchasing and/or repairing the ixecessary resources for
upgrading priority education and health services. The program's impact is
expected to be highly visible in the short term. It will finance specific
expenditures over the relatively short period of one and a half years, with
minimum recurrent costs, such that the Impact on the government's future
recurrent budget mill be minimal. As far as possible, subsequent
maintenance cost will be provided by the local authorities and by
contributions from the beneficiaries themselves. Appropriate arrangements
for coordinating and managing this program will be put in place In the
context of the establishment of the SDA Comite de Pilotage by July 1991.
18.       The 1991 budget, adopted in agreement with the World Bank and
IMP, establishes the following objectives: (i) total revenue/GDP of 10.6
percents (1i) personnel costslprimary expenditures of 76 percents (111)



- 67 -
investment expenditures/GDP of 5.0 percent; iv) prlmary current surplus of
0.0 percent of GDPs and (v) overall deficit (commitment basis, excluding
grants) of 9.8 percent of GDP.
II;.1.2 Public Investment Proaramiing
19.       The investment planning procedures that were revised in 1986 In
consultation with the World Bank have already improved the allocation of
investment resources. The public investment program (PIP), which was
previously set at unrealistic levels (sometimes 30Z of GDP), has now been
adapted to the country's domestic and ezternal resources and its capacity
for generating viable projects. In addition, a project selection process
has been adopted which applies minlzmm economic and financial rates of
return to all industrial and commercial investment proposals. The
improvements are reflected in the increase in the program's execution rate,
which rose from 22-25 percent in 1983-84 to 70.2 percent in 1989. Other
improvements, to be Introduced beginning in July 1991, relate to the
following four areass
20.       Adaptability to a changing environment and consistency with
macroeconomic obiectivess With a view to putting in place a framework to
capture long-term economlc trends, the Government intends to elaborate
forwar6-looking sectoral plans Which Will encompass the successive three-
year rolling PIP's required for medium-term economic management. In the
meantime, a three-year rolling investment program was adopted for the first
time in 1989. This program will be strengthened and periodically revised
In consultation with the World Bank, and for this purpose the Government
will prepare quarterly reports on program execution. The three-year PIP
will be discussed and agreed with the World Bank by September of each year
of the program period. Reflecting a growth strategy based on an enhanced
role for the private sector, the public investment/GDP ratio will average
8.0 percent over the 1991-93 perlod, which is in line with the Government's
projeo:ed domestic and external investment resources and absorptive
capacity. With a significant increase in private Investment over the
program period, the overall investmentlGDP ratio is expected to increase
from 11.4 percent in 1990 to 14.3 percent In 1993. For the period of the
adjustment program, the public investment program will be limited to
rehabilitating and restructuring existing facilities, and to prLority
projects in the lnfrastructural, agricultural, utilities, health, and
education sectors. Projects will only be included in the PIP after a
determination has been made that they would conform to the overall
macroeconomic framework and to agreed sectoral strategies. The emphasis
given to those activities that are by their nature the concern of the
public sector will facilitate the development of private sector activities,
thus laying the foundations for sustained economic growth increasingly
driven by the private sector. Due to present financial constraints, more
than 90 percent of. the public investment program will be financed by
external grants and highly concesslonal loans (i.e. with a grant element of
at least 50 percent).



- 68 -
21.       Discipline in project selections In the future, the Government
will launch investment projects only after (at least) preliminary studies
have been made showing their technical, economic and financial
justification. Criteria relating to economic and financial rates of return
will be applied to projects in which such quantitative analyses are
appropriate (i.e. in agriculture, industry, infrastructure, etc.). As
regards projects in the social sectors, their consistency with viable
sector strategies will be assessed, and criteria will be applied for
selecting those projects offering services at least cost while providing
optimum value added in the use of local materials, together with a minimum
of recurrent costs. Support for this strategy will come from the Pre-
investment Project (now being finalized with World Bank assistance), in the
form of financing of feasibility studies, and preparing bankable projects.
In addition, the project will provide short-term technical assistance to
strengthen the Directorate of Plan of the Ministry of Planning as well as
the programming units of the sectoral ministries.
22.       Exhaustive programmingt In order to ensure that investment
programing is exhaustive and that decision makers ere provided with full
information on the financial implications, the annual program will include
all capital transfers and portfolio Investment planned in the parastatal
sector. irrespective of the source of financing. The Government has
undertaken to increase its efforts to ensure that its contribution to the
PIP will increase steadily during the program. To this end, it will put in
place a more exhaustive planning process of recurrent cost and counterpart
funding for projects included in the PIP; this process will be aided by the
on-going work to unify the investment and recurrent budgets. The
Government's contribution to the PIP will increase from an amount of CPAP
1.9 billion in 1991 to CPAP 2.3 billion in 1992 and CFAF 2.6 billion in
1993.
23.       Monitoring of project executions Given the problems caused by the
previous administrative arrangements for coordinating and planning sector
investment (i.e. the Directions d'Etudes et de Planification, or DEP's),
the Government has established new structures to fulfill this function
(Cellules de Prograsmation et de Coordination, or CPC's) in the technical
ministries. These will tap the expertise of the existing technical
departments to enhance coordination with the Ministry of Planning and
Statistics. The planning and monitoring forms prepared in 1986 and now
being upgraded will be used to strengthen project monitoring capacity.
They will be completed quarterly by the CPC's in each of the ministries and
forwarded to the Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and
Statistics, so as to provide regular progress reports on the physical
execution of projects and capital expenditures, thus facilitating the
monitoring of developments in public finance. Technical support to be
provided through the Pre-Investment Project is also expected to improve the
monitoring process.



- 69 -
111.1.3 Administrative Refonm and the Personnel Reduction Program
24.       Benin's public administration is in a critical state and the
Government is aware that an orderly and vell-planned administrative reform
is required to permit the redefinition of the state's role in line with the
new economic orientation. It is therefore essential to put in place an
overall conceptual framework to guide the necessary reorganization, staff
reduction, and rational management of the civil service. Although the
voluntary departure program for the civil service launched in 1989 was
possibly one of the most successful components of SAL I, it was executed
without any preliminary study of the technical ministries' organizational
structures and personnel needs. Consequently, many government employees
still having a vital role to play in the social sectors decided to leave,
and, if this trend continues, certain sectors are likely to suffer a
shortage of competent staff. Because of its high cost, it was not possible
to continue implementing the program in its original form; a new program
has therefore been designed both to reduce the cost and also to be
consistent with the general context of the basic administrative reforms,
while also enabling the new administrative mechanisms to provide basic
public services more efficiently for the private sector.
25.       The new civil service reduction program will be applied to both
civil and military personnel, and will be based on the organizational
audits of the technical ministries, with an in-depth review of budgetary
constraints for the purpose of using personnel more efficiently, improving
service quality, and adapting it to a redefinition of the role of the
Government. The positions of those leaving government employment will be
terminated. The Government will not re-employ in the civil service
employees who had received compensation payments under the departure
program. Together with normal retirements and a very selective hiring
policy (para. 15), the government work force will be reduced by 2,000 a
year, from a total of 50,000 at the end of 1990 to 42,000 by end-1994, or
by 16 percent. The 1991 phase will contain a substantial number of
departures from the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
(MDRAC). Various studies of MDRAC's organizational structure and personnel
needs conducted between 1988-90 have determined that approximately 3,800
staff positions (including approximately 2,600 permanent civil service
positions) should be eliminated from MDRAC and its provincial agencies, the
CARDER. This initial phase will also affect about 800 military personnel.
The audit of the Ministry of Finance was completed in May 1991, and that of
the Ministry of National Education by the end of September 1991. This
second group, in addition to military personnel, will form the basis for
the 1992 departures. The audits of the other technical ministries will be
conducted in 1992. A staff redeployment exercise for the Ministry of
Health has already been completed, and an organizational audit of the
ministry will be completed by end-December 1991. How promptly the
personnel reductions and the associated budgetary savings are achieved will
depend mainly on the supply of external resources for severance payments.
The cost of the program includes accumulated pension rights and is
estimated at CFAF 15.2 billion, i.e., an average of CFAF 1.9 million per
departing civil servant. Civil servants who choose to depart before being
forced to do so would receive better compensation.



- 70 -
26.       The management audits are also designed to define the functions
of each ministry and, if necessary, to produce revised organizational
charts for individual ministries. As under SAL 1, personnel management
will continue to be rationalized, with provision for personnel development
and training. As complementary measures, once staffing plans have been
completed, and in parallel to the program of targeted reductions, the
following will be examinedt
-    the regulations to govern employment conditions for the various
categories of specialized personnel, in order to ensure
compliance with the rationalized form of the civil service;
-    the regulations governing APEs, in order to rationalize the
existence of the various categories, simplify the forms of
administration, clarify the position of personnel in public and
parastatal enterprises, and barmonize the regulations with the
new Labor Law;
-    links between the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (which is
responsible for managing the civil service) and the government
agencies concerned, in order to ensure the enforcement of strict
budgetary controls;
-    establishment of a single registry of civil servants;
-    implementation of financial and managerial restructuring measures
for FNRI (the Civil Service Retirement Fund) and OBSS (the
Beninese Social Security Office), covering government personnel
who are parties to the social security agreement, in order to
establish a consistent framework.
111.1.4   Public Enterprise Reform
27.       The Government will continue the wide-ranging reorganization of
the parastatal sector launched in 1986 by intensifying the process of
divesting itself of enterprises and improving the management and
performance of the restricted number of enterprises remaining in its
portfolio. The Government's portfolio which consisted of over 60
comumercial public enterprises at the end of 1986, was reduced to 29 at end-
December 1990, and will only contain 21 by the end of June 1991.
Rehabilitation of most of the large enterprises remaining in the public
sector is being monitored in the context of the projects financed by
multilateral and bilateral assistance. These include SBZE (the Beninese
Electric Power and Water Company), OPT (the Post and Telecomunications
Office), SONAPRA (the Agricultural Promotion Company), PAC (the Autonomous
Port of Cotonou), and OCBN (the Benin-Niger Joint Organization/Railway).
28.       Continuation of Divestitures Building on the progress achieved
under the first SAL, and based on the findings of diagnostic studies and
the assessments of sale value conducted over the last two years, the
Government has adopted the following action plan, in consultation with the



v 71 -
World Banks Mi) accelerating the process of completing the liquidations of
15 enterprises begun In 1986-19901 (IL) the divestiturelprLvatisation
(through sale or lease-management contracts) of 10 enterprises, namely
SONACI (cement factory sold in March 1991), Usine de Noix de Cajou (cashew
nut factory), Maiserie de Bohicon (corrmill), Sn (fertilizers), Usine de
Concentre de Tomates (tomato concentrate), Usine de Jus de Fruits d'Allahi
(fruit juice), la B4ninoise (brewery), S8S (sugar), SCO, (cement), and
SONICOG (palm products and edible oils); (iit) diagnosticimarket studies
and implementation of appropriate recommendations for four enterprises
(SITEX, OBSS, SONACOP, and SONAR); iv) the liquidation/dismantling of 2
enterprises (CNBF, COBIURM); and v) a financial audit of 1 enterprise
(SCO). The privatization of another cement company, the SCB, is expected
to be completed by July 19911 in the absence of acceptable offers, the
Government will also implement by end-September 1991 appropriate so:.utions
for the six transport companies for which bids were issued in early 1990.
An invitation to bid 'or the privatization of SOCOGXM ill be issued before
end-December 1991. The procedures for the privatization process adopted by
the Government in 1988 will continue to be rigorously applied and
strengthened. with an emphasis on increasing their transparency.
29.       Given the magnitude of the financial problems facing the SSS and
the SCO, and their weight in the public enterprise sector, in September
1990 the Government entered into discussions with its Nigerian shareholders
in order to reach agreement on the most appropriate solution for the
current problems. The diagnostic studies completed over the last two years
recommended that these two enterprises be privatized under management
contracts. An economic and financlal analysis of the SSS completed in
August 1990 concluded that the enterprise could be profitable on a sunk-
cost basis; this analysis will need to be updated to provide a basis for
i -uing of bids for its privatization through lease management by December
1991. A financial audit of SCO, conducted by an international firm, will
be completed by September 1991 and will update SCO's financial situation
prior to the issue of bids for a lease management contract by September
1992. The implementation of these measures for SSS and SCO will be
dependent upon agreemnt from the Nigerian Governmeat. Nonetheless, no
subsidies, direct or indirect, will be provided by the Government to SSS
and SCO in the future. SONICOG is another enterprise destined for
privatization, and the Government has e udied the various divestiture
options and adopted an appropriate strategy in May 1991, in consultation
with the World Bank; the agreed strategy will be fully implemented by end-
September 1992. The financial situation of another major enterprise,
SONACOP (petroleum products distribution), has deteriorated as illicit
imports of gasoline from Nigeria have expanded, decreasing government
revenues from this once-major source. A diagnostic study of this
enterprise, as well as of the entire petroleum distribution and taxation
syet"A was completed in May 1991 and appropriate recommendations will be
adopted by end-October '.991. The maritime company, COBENAM, will be
divested of its commercial activities by February 1992, and the Government
will pursue its integration into a regional maritime consortium before end-
December 1992; in the absence of the establishment of such a consortium,
the Government plans to liquidate COBENMI in 1992. The CNBP (freight) will
also be liquidated before end-December 1991, and its data collection
activities and control of international transportation arrangements will be



- 72 -
transferred to the Ministry of Equipment and Transport. The monopoly of
the government-owmed insurance company, SONAR, will be eliminated and
private insurance regulations vill be adopted by February 1992. Finally,
the Govenmnent will adopt, in consultation with the Bank and DMP, financial
restrueturing measures for the social security agency, OBSS, before
December 1991; no financial transfers will be made to the OBSS before an
action plan to implement these measures has been agreed upon.
30.       As regards the privatliation strategy, standard procedures were
adopted in September 1988, and their application will be strengthened
during the program period. The main issues concern advertising, the
establishment of precise schedules, a mechanism for preparing invitations
to competitive or limited bidding and evaluating the bids, and
transparency. As these procedures are reinforced and clarified, the
Government Is negotiating position with potential purchasers should be
strengthened.
31.       Monitorina Financial Performance: The Government is committed to
strengthening its efforts to improve the management and performance of
enterprises remaining in the public sector. In this connection, the
monitoring system (tableau de bord") introduced in June 1989 to track
appropriate performance indicators will be improved and the system
computerized; enterprise monitoring will be facilitated by the submission
of full reports on a quarterly basis. The Government also recently
completed an inventory of enterprise cross-debts and adopted an action plan
to settle them. Finally, the Government recognizes that public enterprise
investments require closer monitoring to ensure their consistency with
overall macroeconomic policies and maximize their contribution to growth.
In line with this strategy, the Government will ensure that the SONACOP
headquarters, whose un-programmed construction began in 1990, is sold or
rented (with the proceeds going to the Government), once completed. To
avoid a recurrence of such a situation in the future, data and other
information that would permit the periodic review of public enterprise
investments will be transmitted to the World Bank in a timely manner.
32.       Rationalization of Legal Framework:  The law governing public and
parastatal enterprises was amended in April 1988, and now assigns increased
rights and responsibilities to the Boards of Directors and management, thus
establishing an institutional framework that enables the remaining public
enterprises to play a more dynamic role in the country's economic growth.
With less interference in decision-making, officials of public enterprises
will be appointed in accordance with more rigorous criteria. The statutes
of all public enterprises will be examined and amended, as required, by
mid-1992 to bring them into line with the law (law 1988-005). A new law
giving more autonomy to enterprises of a social, cultural, or scientific
character will be adopted before end-September 1991.
33.       Clarificstion of Obiectivess  The objectives of enterprises will
be made more speciflc, as part of the revision of statutes bringing them
into line with the above law. In addition, all enterprises requiring
government support to implement their rehabilitation, restructuring or
expansion programs will negotiate performance contracts with the
Government, clearly defining the respective rights and duties of both



- 73 -
parties. The performance contract for SBZE (electricity and water) has
been revised and that for OPT (telecommunications) was adopted in 1990.
34.       Criteria Governin  the Establishment of New Enterprisess  The
Government has decided not to establish any new public enterprises during
the period of the structural adjustment program. Nevertheless, there may
be cases where the Government is forced to accept a minority interest in a
new enterprise operating in a strategic sector. In view of this
possibility, strict criteria have been adopted, relating to economic and
financial rates of return and management considerations, to guide the
Government's decision-making, in consultation with the World Bank.
111.2.    Reform of the Financial System
35.       Completing the reform of the financial sector will remain one of
the major priorities of the adjustment program, as it has a significant
impact on the normalization of economic activities and on the developaent
of the private sector. In this regard, the Government will seek to
consolidate the financial position of the new banks established in 1989-90
and of the network of agricultural mutual credit associations, and to
pursue the negotiations aimed at establishing a bank with international
standing in Benin. The Government also intends to reform the postal
checking and savings bank systems, separating them completely from Treasury
operations. in addition, arrangements have been made to ensure the
efficient management of the liquidation of the three government banks which
have ceased their activities. Liquidation of CNCA was completed in late
1990. The receiver appointed in June 1990 to liquidate the BBD and the BCB
has drawn up statements of the assets and liabilities of these two banks.
A common structure for recovering the loans of the three banks was set up
In September 1990 to recover their outstanding loans (estimated at CPAP 157
billion in June 1990), anc! by end-December 1990, CFAF 3.4 billion of the
banks' recoverable assets of CPAP 31 billion had been recovered; the
balance is expected to be recovered over a four-year period with the
proceeds being used to repay depositors. A review of the operations of the
recovery unit and its legal environment will be conducted with the
technical assistance of the World Bank and the results examined with Bank
and Fund staff by end-September 1991, with the objective of accelerating
the recovery effort and the early completion of on-going liquidations.
36.       The liquidation of the three banks led to the Government's
assumption of the banks' obligations to the BCEAO (CPAF 57 billion) as well
as of the mxdium and long-term loans guaranteed by the Government. The
majority of the commitments vis-&-vis BCEA0 (CPA? 45 billion) were
consolidated on a long-term basis in accordance with the tezas agreed to by
the BCEZA's Board of Directors in June 1989. Currently, residual
obligations total CPA? 12 billion mostly representing loans granted to the
BCD. With the latter now under liquidation, the program envisages the
consolidation of the remaining amount. The Reimbursement Fund (FIR) has
drawn up w repayment plan covering the 1991-94 period for priority deposits
with banks, savings banks, and the postal checking system. This plan
assumes repayment against external resources amounting to CPA? 29 billion



- 74 -
(about 40 percent of private deposits) during the 1991-94 period. In
addition to the repaymont operations already initiated in 1989-90, this
plan will require external financing at the rate of CIA? 5 billion per year
durfing the four-year period from 1991 to 1994. The plan gives priority to
the repayment of the deposits of omll savers, social and humanitarian
organisations, nveetment projects., public enterprises undergoing liquid.-
tio (for the purpose of settling severance payments), small and medium-
sized enterprises, and embassies. The remaining deposits, together with
other claims oan the basks undergoing liquidation, will be repaid by the
receiver In proportion to the amounts recovered from loans and fixed
assets. With the assistance of the World Bank, discussions are underway
vith a view to elaborating a debt reduction operation of the bank's short-
tern external obiLgations (para. 16).
37.       Reorganization of the rural credit system (i.e. the CRCAM and
CLCAH) began in early 1990 and is receiving substantial support from the
World Bank, Switzerland, and other donors. The primary aim is to transform
this system so as to improve its management and make it more efficient and
financially viable, while leaving it fully independent from the
Government's administrative authorities. Although satisfactory results
have been obtained with regard to experimental credits, the Government is
aware that the regional and local authorities must closely monitor the
lines of credit, and that the status of non-viable branches will have to be
evaluated, to ensure that they are not subsidized for more than one or two
years. In order to avoid the repetition of past experience, the Government
undertakes to ensure the financial and managerial autonomy as well as the
mutualist character of the CRCAM and CLCAM.
38.       Among the measures necessary for encouraging the new banks to
carry out their financial intermediation function is the establishment of
an appropriate legal framework, especially in the area of loan recovery.
The existing system does not adequately meet the needs of deregulated
banking, and must be reviewed and simplified. Priorities for reform in
this connection include revising judicial procedures for obtaining
guarantees and collateral, land title arrangements and records, and the
nomination of new magistrates. On the basis of a study completed in May
1991, the Government will adopt and implement by December 1991 a detailed
plan of actlon aied at strengthening the support provided by the legal
system in ensuring respect for financial contracts and debt recovery. The
health and sustainabilLty of the new financial system depends on a
reinforced supervisory and regulatory framework. This objective has been
advanced by the rationalization of the interest rate structure and the
creation of a supra-national Banking Supervision Comuission in the context
of the recent BCZAO reforms.
39.       The Government understands and accepts that the development of
efficient credit markets will require that it refrain from intervening in
the sector and allow the banks to allocate their resources freely. 'While
acknowledging that limited access to credit by particular segments of the
population (e.g. small and medium scale enterprises) may require special
attention, the Government will seek to ensure that the various credit
schemes being considered (and somn which already exist) are designed to



_ 75 -
ensure the maintenance of financial discipline and to mAnimize the problems
and riskk associated with directed credit schemes.
111.3     Trade Policy Reform. Deregulation, and Private Sector Promotion
40.       The Government recognizes the vital contribution that the
Seninese and fore ig private sector can make to econamLc development.
Following the state's divestiture of Its holdings in the productive
sectors, the private sector should be In a position to take over and ensure
future economic growth. To enable private sector activities to develop.
the Government intends to continue and extend the liberalization measures
already initiated under SAL I, In particular through the effective
implementation of the new Investment Code and the new commercial and labor
legislation. The previous Investment Code (adopted in 1982) accorded
preferential treatment to public enterprises and resulted in highly
capital-intensive investments, to the detriment of private enterprise
development, small-scale enterprises, and the adoption of appropriate
technologies. It also produced a substantial shortfall in tax revenue
because of excessive exemptions. The new Code adopted by the Sigh Council
of the Republic went into force in December 1990. The new Code is easier
to admfinister (with transparent procedures for granting benefits) and is
neutral as regards the size of enterprises and the sectors to which they
belong. In addition, the benefits extended to enterprises will be
gradually reduced, and in due course eliminated. The new commercial and
labor legislation vhich went into effect in January/February 1991 will
further the Government's liberalization objectives by granting private
enterprises the necessary decision-making freedom and by facilitating the
free movement of factors of production. The Government recognizes,
nonetheless, that this first phase of reform will need to be strengthened
during the program period. In this regard, a review of the experience with
implementing the new legislation will be undertaken with the World Bank
before February 1992 and any necessary improvements adopted before end-
September 1992.
41.       The Government made significant progress in the area of price
decontrol prior to adopting the first structural adjustment program, such
that the number of items subject to prior approval for price increases and
to ccAtrolled profit margins had been reduced from 66 in 1986 to 22 by end-
1988. Building on this progress, the Government further reduced the number
of items subject to price control to 4 (rice, tomato paste, milk and school
articles) in May 1991. This decision emanated from the Government's
recognition that: I) the objective of providing transitional protection for
key domestic industries (the rationale for maintaining a number of items on
the price control list) is more efficiently pursued in the context of
tariff policy$ and ii) remaining controls were ineffective in achieving
social objectives since many of the goods involved are imported through
informl sector channels where existing regulations are circumvented.
During the program period, the Government intends to review the case for
retaining the remaining 4 items on the price control list, with a view to
their eventual elimination.



- 76 -
42.       Private operators working in the industrial sector have been
discouraged by the regulatory framework and tariff structure applied over
the past decade. Under the second structural adjustment program the
Government intends to bulid on the progress already achieved in the area of
trade policy reform by rationalizing industrial incentives and reforming
the tariff structure in a manner consistent with the objectives of the
finmacial program. Based ce the studies completed in September 1990, and
on recent technical adjustments to tariff rates carried out in the context
of restoring the import tax base to 100 percent of the cif value, an action
plan has been drawn up with the aim of introducing the first phase of the
reform in 1991 and the second before end-September 1992. The new tariff
schedule is for a single composite ad valorem import tax which would
replace all existing taxes on imports (with the exception of the general
expenditure tax and the PCS levied by CEA0 member states). The number of
rates and their levels will be determined after further study.
Provisionally 4 rates have been retained. In addition, the export taxation
system will be studied with the view of making it more rational and
efficient and removing remaining export taxes. Temporary protection would
be provided for a number of industrial goods produced in Benia (and their
close substitutes) for a fixed period of three years after which time they
would be subject to the standard rate. The Government believes that
implementation of the new tariff structure and the general expenditure tax
will together constitute a significant improvement in the incentive
structure for private investments in the industrial sector.
43.       The licensing requirements for imports from the EC, the ACP
countries and the franc zone were liberalized under SAL T. Under SAL II,
this liberalization will be extended by February 1992 to all other imports.
In view of the need to strengthen export performance, the Government will
closely monitor the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. Within this
framework, a comprehensive study of factor costs and other determinants of
competitiveness (including regional factors) will be initiated by July 1991
and with the assistance of the World Bank an action plan will be drawn up
for promoting exports. The Government has alveady decided to liberalize
the insurance and transportation sectors, and will examine the feasibility
of introducing a competitive bidding system for public services such as the
maintenance of public buildings and waste disposal.
44.       To promote small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and to help
persons leaving the civil service and young school graduates to prepare and
develop new projects, an Employment and Enterprise Promotion Center
(CePEPE) has been established with UNDP assistance. However, the project
will be revised with e view to clearly defining an appropriate target group
and ensuring the introduction of suitable arrangements for managing the
lines of credit proposed for SMEs.  The promotion of SMEs will also require
additional efforts to bring the activities of the informal sector within
the purview of the general economy. Given the role of this sector in
regional commerce, the study of competitiveness refe. red to above will also
provide the analysis necessary for formulating appropriate policies in this
regard. During the program period, the Government plans to conduct (with
the assistance of the World Bank and the IFC) reviews of the overall
business environment, with a view to introducing other policy changes
required to resuw2 private sector growth. These cotuld include further



- 77 -
streamlining of business regulations, strengthening institutional support
to firms seeking access to export markets, and further Vmprovements in the
banking environmnt, with a view to Improving access to credit.
III.4.    THE SOCIL DIT'ISIONS OF THE PROGRAH
45.       The Government wishes to protect the poorest and most vulnerable
groups from the transitional costs of reforms under the adjustment program,
to Improve the provision of basic social services, and, ultimately, to
increase the participation of the poor in and contribution to Benin's
economic growth. Despite the low level of per capita incomes, in overall
terms the country is self-sufficient in food. In rural areas, the terms of
trade have improved following the producer price increases in recent years,
thereby increaaing the incomes of rural residents. In the cities, on the
other hand, the reduction in size of the public sector and problems vith
the payment of civil service salaries have affected urban employment and
real incomes. Attention has therefore been focused largely on the social
dimensions of adjustment in urban areas. Now, however, attention will also
be devoted to the needi of the rural population, in particular by
safeguarding recurrent nonwage expenditures on education and health, and
the rehabilitation of social infrastructure.
46.       These concerns will be explicitly taken into account under the
structural adjustment program and in the various sector projects now under
way or in the process of preparation. In general, SAL II will address the
social dimensions of adjustment through a two-phase approach. The first
will include short-term actions to deal with critical problems that have
already been identified and provide resources fort (i) financing priority,
current expenditures on health and education through the Social Fund and
increased budgetary allocations; (li) implementing a labor-intensive pilot
public works project; and (iii) rehabilitating essential social and
administrative infrastructure. In particular, the public finance component
of SAL II envisages a reallocation of expenditures from personnel to
equipment and supplies, especially in the social sectors. The Social Fund
(included in the budget), into which contributions from donors will be
channeled, is already set up to finance expenditures on priority equipment
in education and health. The rehabilitation program, for which budgetary
allocations have been made in 1991 and 1992, wcald facilitate education and
health service delivery to vulnerable groups by repairing primary schools
and cr'tical health infrastructure and equipment.
47.       The civil service voluntary departure program introduced under
SAL II involved an excessively high level of compensation. The level
provided by the program for staff cutbacks in SAL II will certainly be
lower, but will be adequate to facilitate the re-incorporation of the
indLivduals coneerned into the private sector. The IDA-financed pilot
labor  intensive public works project effectively began in December 1990,
and will provide about 1,500 temporary jobs in 1991-92 and help revitalize
and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in construction and
public works. The first Urban Project now being prepared will continue
this pllot operation, and will implement pilot health and environmental



- 78 -
saitation Improvements in the perdpheral areas of Cotonou. A program for
retraining personel leaving public eaterprises Is now being finalized as
part of the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project, with assLstance from
the Government of Canada. Other operations in which the social dimensions
of adjustment are being addressed Include the Agricultural Services Project
which will Include a credit scheme and training program for former CURDER
staff to facilitate their integration into the rural private sector, and
pilot food security initiatives In collaboration with a number of non-
governmental organisations. As noted above, the CePtP, which aims to
asesit the unemployed and to support SHB's, will be redesigned. To assure
appropriate coordination of all these initiatLves, the Government vill
establish a coordination and management committee (Comite de Pilotage/Unite
de Gestion) by July 3091.
48.       The second p4ase of the Government's SD strategy, dealing with
medium-tetm activities, will be prepared In the context of a proposed
technical assistance project focusing, among other components, on SDM
issues. It will stress the refonm and strengthening of institutions,
monatoring developments In social indicators, and identifying appropriate
target groups, providing basic data for designing policies to increase the
participation of the poor in the economy. Project components will likely
includes (i) national and regional planning; (Li) surveys, studles, and
monitoring; (Lil) promotion and the extension of financial assistance to
women so as to Incorporate them more fully into the economy; and
(iv) strengthening of existing rural institutions for promoting rural
private enterprise. The World Bank and UNDP have collaborated in assisting
the Gsvernment In drawing up both phases of the SDA strategy, which will be
presented to the Geneva Roundtable Meeting, scheduled for late 1991.
111.5.    sector Policies
I1I.5.1  Agriculture
49.       Agrlculture Is the basis of Benin's economy, providing food
security for Its people. It will remain the major source of growth for
some time, In that currently it provides about 70 percent of household
income, accounts for approximately 40 percent of export revenue, and
represents about 38 percent of GDP. An agriculture sector review carried
out in 1988 by a firm of consultants, including a diagnostic study, entered
a second phase when a seminar on rural development policy was held in
Cotonou in July 1990. This seminar made it possible to define the various
aspects of the sector In the framework of a general economic policy with
three separate dimensions: a stabilization policy for restoring
equilibrium in the balance of payments and dealing with the budget deficit,
a structural policy Intended largely to Increase the effectiveness of
developymit tools while rescaling the role and Importance of the Government
In the sector, and a development policy which targets Increases in output
potential, Income and employment. These factors underlie the following
five major objectivess



- 79 -
(1) Increasing the standard of living of rural populations by
increasing incomes and Improving services;
(2) acr easfing export revenue through Increased competitiveness and
diversifications
C3) reducing public expenditures and redefining the role of the
Government in rural development;
(4) combating poverty and the lack of food security;
(5) rationally managing natural resources.
Consideration of the future of the rural sector is continuing, and a draft
medium-term development strategy containing a coherent action program was
produced in early 1991; this strategy will be finalized and adopted by the
Government by June 1991.
50.       Institutional Aspects of Agricultural Development: The
consideration of agricultural issues and the resulting seminar led to a
series of studies targeting the restructuring of rural development
Institutions, as well as improvements in agricultural services for the
farming communmlty.. A project for restructuring agricultural services --
financed by IDA and other donors -- is now being finalized. It calls for
several far-reaching Institutional reforms, including reorganizatLon of the
Ninlstry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action and of the Regional
Rural Development Actlon Centers (CARDER). The aim of this restructuring
process is to increase the efficiency of the essential public services
provided for producers by making their structure more flexible, thereby
facilitating personnel redeployment and training and the encouraging the
private sector to take over commercial, credlt and processing activities.
Transferring CARDER activities to private and cooperative operators, and
removing surplus personnel, will reduce staffing levels significantly,
especially In the lowest grades. Additional measures will be taken to
provide for training, redeployment, the submission of relocation proposals,
and the grantig of lines of credit.
51.       Food Crops and Food Securitys Producers of food crops raise their
crops large!y for their own consumption, while providing a margin of
security for bad years. They may occasionally produce marketable
surpluses, though the monetary Income derived from them depends upon market
conditions. The market for foodstuffs is characterized by pronounced
seasonal and year-to-year price fluctuations without any long-term price
trends.  Overall, output increases as the rural population grows, except In
areas where land Is limited. In view of these constraints, the principal
measures to be mplemented will aim at Increasing the competitiveness of
food production so that it can provide more cash crops for meeting urban
demand, reducing price fluctuations, lmproving the information available to
famers with respect to flows and prices, maintaining liberal patterns of
food crop marketing, enhancing the movements of trade, Increasing the
volumes of food otored In rural areas, reducing marketing costs, and
promoting crop diverslfication.



- 8o -
52.       Livestock production is not managed with any genuine concern for
productivity, but rather as a traditional and isolated activity.
Additionally, meat prices are too low to make sales-oriented production
units profitable, particularly in view of the problems and costs resulting
from transportation difficulties, the lack of organization in the
subsector, and Imports of lw-priced (subsidized) frozen meat.
Nevertheless, the existing market does have its attractions, and the
subsector has the potential to tap these provided that improvements are
made in tariff protection, herd offtake rates and health protection, and
the organization of the subsector and its infrastructure, including the
number of permanently available sources of water. Finally, the Government
intends to redefine and redistribute the government-owned farms.
53.       Reforms in the Cotton Subsector: Since March 1987, the Government
has been taking steps to implement fundamental management reforms in this
subsector, with external assistance financed under the Second Rural
Development Project for the Department of Borgou. SAL II will consolidate
the positive results and gains previously obtained in the sector program,
the objectives of which SAL I did much to achieve. Very encouraging
results have been produced since the beginning of these reforms bys (i)
transferring Industrial and commercial activities from the CARDER to
SONAPRA (Socite Nationale de Promotion Agricole), with the CARDER acting
as subcontractors for SONAPRA. providing marketing services associated with
the distribution of inputs and primary marketing; (ii) eliminating the
subsidies on inputs sold to producers; and (iii; creating a pricing system
which links producer purchase prices to international market prices, using
a system for distributing any surpluses among producers, SONAPRA, and the
government budget. Consequently, efficiency, productivity and the ginning
rate have increased. Output has Increased from 37,000 metric tons in 1982-
83 to 140,000 tons in 1989-90, with the ginning capacity rising from under
80,000 tons in 1988 to approximately 150,000 tons by 1990. The Government
intends to maintain the present policy, in order to consolidate the
improved management of the subsector and to stabilize the financial
viability already achieved in the 1989190 crop year. This will be done by:
(i) maintaining a competitive cost price per kilogram of fiber cotton;
(ii) continuing the policy of fixing a floor producer price, with the
possibility of additional premiums as incentives to farmers during
favorable years; (ii) pursuing the improvements In the industrial
structure, with a view to optimizing plant utilization, and also improving
the ginning rate and fiber quality so as to increase operating income; (iv)
continuing SONAPRA's efforts to restructure its own organization, implement
a staff redeployment plan, with the departure of over 183 personnel, and
achieve a financial restructuring and the restabilization of the balance
sheet; and Cv) formulating a medium-term strategy for developing the cotton
subsector, taking account in particular of the agro-ecological potential of
the various production areas and adaptation of industrial structures to
desirable output levels.
54.       Agricultural Credits Following the collapse of the banking system
and the liquidation of the CNCA, the financing possibilities open to the
rural sector (excluding the activities associated with cotton production)
experlenced a serious crslis. However, the existing network of regional
and local mutual agricultural credit associations (the CRCAM and CLCAH),



- 81 -
retained some degree of vitality and relative trust from the farmers
despite the financial losses incurred.
55.       The Government, with the support of numerous donors, has put in
place a project for rehabilitating the CRCAM/CLCAM network, with the
objective of giving the rural population access to services for collecting
savings and distributling loans on appropriate terms within a mutuallst
framework providing for farmer participation and autonomy of management
(para. 37). The philosophy underlying the system is one of collecting
adequate savings prior to the granting of loans. These asso_iations will
be managed as cooperatives by the members themselves, and will have to take
all necessary steps to ensure that their revenue margins are sufficiently
large to guarantee financial viability. The commercial banks which have
meanwhile entered the Beninese market are also beginning to show some
interest in participating in agricultural credit operations.
111.5.2   Transnort and Transit
56.       In view of the difficult regional economic environment, the
Government will both continue and expand the measures for rehabilitating
and adequately and regularly maintaining the sector's infrastructure,
strengthening its institutions, and creating an environment in which the
Beninese transportation sector can be more competitive in the regional
transit trade market. With the assistance of IDA, a basic study for the
formulation of a sector policy for strengthening facilities and determining
new road requirements will be carried out by the end of 1991. In this
connection, on-going reforms undertaken with the support of donors,
particularly in the framework of the IDA financed Transportation Infra-
structure Rehabilitation and Maintenance project, will be strengthened in
the areas specified below.
57.       Road Maintenance: Properly maintaining the road network is an
essential element of the sector refonms initiated in 1988. This includes
improved organization of road maintenance and increasing the resources
allocated to maintenance. Since the Road Fund is currently financed by
gasoline taxes, the results and recommndations of the diagnostic study of
SONACOP and the petroleum distribution system will serve as a basis for
determining how best to increase its resources.   Bowever, prior to
introducing corrective measures in this connection, the Government will
seek to improve the management of the Road Fumd by setting up adequate
programming and efficient implementation processes. Increased private
sector participation in road maintenance will be encouraged, avoiding the
force account system to the maximum extent possible. Finally, a study will
be undertaken in 1991 in order to examine ways of converting SMTP (the
Public Works Equipment Service) into an autonomous agency.
58.       Sector Pricing Policy: Enhancing the sector's competitiveness
requires lmproved services at reasonable prices, and this will be achieved
by encouraging free and open competition among the various operators. In
this connection the Government intends to implement the recommendations of
the diagnostic study of CNBF (Centre Rational des Bureaus de Fret). CNBF



- 82 -
will, In effect, be dissolved and its data collection activities, as well
as the control of international transportation arrangements, will be
transferred to the Mlinistry of Equipment and Transport. Sitilarly, the
Government will pursue the Improvements In the structure of port charges
for the Autonomous Port of Cotonou (PAC) on the basis of cost accounting
and In light of the subregional environment.
59.       Sector Management Policys The measures for Increasing the
viability of the port subsector will be enhanced. These includes (1)
Improving management by reducing operating costs and. In particular,
through gradual reductions in staffing levels (by 5 percent per year from
1991 to 1993); (11) seeking to achieve medium-term financial equilibrium;
and (iii) maintaining port facilities. In view of the liberalization of
transit and consignment activities (initiated in 1986) and the sale of the
ship GMPJIE, the Government has taken the decision to liberalize the
maritime sector; a study of the 40140120 system and regional maritime
arrangements should be produced by early 1992. During the 1991-93 period,
a debt/equity ratio below 35/65 for PAC and below 40/60 for OBE3AP (the
Beninese Freight Handling Company) will need to be maintained in order to
ensure their financial viability.
II1.5.3   Public Utilities
60.       The Government expects the public services and utilities sector
to provide the population with a reasonable level of social well-being
(through water and electrlc power supply) and to support the development of
industrial and commercial activities (through the provision of water and
electric Fower supplies and telephone and telez services). The
institutional measures initiated to strengthen these services will be
continued in order to improve both the physical and financial performance
of the enterprises Involved. In the case of SBEU, corrective measures
(initiated under the Second Water Supply Project supported by the World
Bank, CCCE und other donors) have concentrated on strengthening lts
organization at the national level. As regards OPT (the post and
telecomuunications company), the measures are being implemented In the
context of the First Telecommunications Project, supported by the World
Bank, CCCE, the African Development Bank and CIDA. Further action will be
taken in the following three areass
1) With regard to the institutional framework. SBEE and OPT
will continue to Improve their management, as called for In
and consistent with the provisions of their performance
contracts with the Government.
ii)  As concerns pricing policy, the objective is to improve
efficiency with regard to water, electric power and
telecoimmunicationes over the 1991-93 period, appropriate
tariff revisions will be Introduced In accordance with the
provision of existitg performance contracts.



- 83 -
11i) The measures already initiated for Improving sector
wHnseea  sand monitoring expenditures will be strength ed,
and OPT sad SBZE will maintain the period of customer
account billings at less than four months.
111.5.4   Energy
61.       Energy supply is not a major obstacle to economic growth in the
short or medium term. lowever, the Government is awre that steps should
be taken to Increase the efficiency of energy use and conserve energy. An
overall strategy for the sector will be drawn up by mld-1992. As regards
electric power, now that the Benin-Togo Comunauti glectriciti du lEnin
project and the Nangbeto hydroelectric plant have recently come into
operation, efforts In the medium term will focus on the reduction of
transmission losses and other ways of saving energy. At the national
level, a World Bank and CCCE-supported project to rehabilitate and ezpand
the sector will be launched In 1991, with the following key objectivess
(A) institution building and organizational strengthening In SBZE;
(ii) improvement of the external environment; and (iii) rehabilitation and
extension of the network, particularly In the areas of Cotonou, Porto-Novo
and Abomey/ohicon.
62.       As regards fossil fuels, Benin has an opportunity for developing
a new source of growth. To this end, plans will be implemented during the
adjustment period to explore and expand operations on the Seme deposit with
private external partners. Discussions are underway with a view to
fitnancing (in the context of the project referred to above) additional
expenditures under the second phase of the Some project which would
maintain oil production levels at approximately 1 6 million tons through
1992. This will make it possible to increase this subsector's contribution
to economic growth after 1991. The Government will take the following
additional measures almed at increasing the contribution of fossil fuels to
growths (i) promotion of exploration efforts in the principal sites, and
diversification of partners for developing the petroleum subsectorl and
(ii) guarantees of satisfactory performance by the companies, as a result
of appropriate exploration contracts.
111.5.5   Education
63.       For several years now, there has been evidence that the Beninese
education system is poorly adapted to the country's economlc needs and
circumstances. The need for a fundamental reorientation of educational
policy is now urgent, and has been accentuated by events In 1989 and early
1990 (in particular, the loss of a full academic year because of the strike
by teachers and students). The education sector's capacity to produce a
labor force matching the requirements of the economy will be a key
component in the resumption of growth in the private sector and the
achievement of sustained development. The sector accounts for 23 percent
of the Government's non-wage primary current expenditures, reflecting in



- 64 -
particular the large share of scholarship expenditures. This level is
clearly unsustainable in light of present and future constraints on public
sector resources and especially because the system is no longer responsive
to economic needs. The education system suffers from poor resource
allocation both as regards levels (higher education given priority over
primary education) and uses (favoring wages and scholarships over education
materials and supplies). Moreover, the system is characterized by low
efficiency, high failure and repetition rates, and the lack of adaptation
to market needs.
64.       With the assistance of the World Bank and UNESCO/UNDP, the
Government is formulating an education sector strategy designed to address
these and other issues in a coherent fashion. Under SAL II, the Government
intends to lay the foundations for a far-reaching education reform which
could be supported by the World Bank through a sector adjustment operation.
Following the PNUDIUNESCO studies and the "Etats Generaus de l'Education',
the preparation of an education policy framework began in November 1990; it
stressess (i) the need to give priority to, and strengthen, primary
edtucation; (ii) the quality of instruction at all levels and the promotion
of excellence; (iii) the strengthening of selection and guidance processes;
(iv) training for self-employment; and (v) improved management of human,
financial and physical resources.
65.       This framework will be developed through an appropriate
Institutional mechanism, and be based on the specific studies, resulting in
the adoption by end-January 1992 of a comprehensive statement of sector
policy, containing detailed sub-sector strategies, an action plan and
calendar for implementing identified reforms. The following specific
measures have been identified as priorities for SAL II: (i) completion of
an organization audit of the Ministry of Education to serve as the basis
for its administrative reorganization ; (ii) stabilization of 1991
scholarship expenditures to the 1990 level, formulation of a plan to
contain them after 1991; (iii) the design and implementation of a system to
regulate entrance into the university (including strengthening the
selection process In secondary education and introducing an entrance
examination); iv) the elaboration of a cost-effective textbook policy; and
v) adoption of measures to regulate the responsibilities, work schedules,
and performance of teachers and university professors.
111.5.6 Health
66.       The Government will reinforce the reforms already under way in
the Health Sector and will continue to give priority to primary health care
and preventive services. These reforms, initiated since 1990 with support
from the World Bank, Switzerland, and other bilateral donors, have already
resulted in a significant improvement in health coverage and quality. In
the medium term, these reforms will be reinforced in the following priority
areass mother and child health care, family planning, prevention of
malnutrition and covmunicable diaeases, including AIDS. The program
includes the rehabilitation of existing facilities to reduce existing
regional disparities. These reforms will be supported by institutional



- 85 -
strengthening activities including decentralization of sector management,
institutionalization of beneficiaries involvement in program management and
in the cost recovery and essential drugs programs.  The Government is
implementing legielative reforms in the pharmaceutical sub-sector in an
effort to enhance private sector participation in health care.
67.       The Government will continue the reforms initiatied in the areas
of financial management, reorganisation of the sector's central and
regional services, including strengthening the roles of local management
set up to involve the community at all levels of health care services. The
capability of the Ministry of Public Health will be strengthened in the
framework of SAL It as the Government strengthens its personnel management
system to improve staff deployment and identify staffiig requirements.
Staff performance will be upgraded through an in-serv.ce training program
currently being developed under the h alth projects.
111.5.7   The Environment
68.       The rapid deterioration of Benin's natural resources seriously
threatens the future of agricultural development, agro-ecological balances,
and general living conditions. Increases in bush fires, the depletion of
forest cover due to fuelwood consumption, the destruction of the soil or
its loss of fertility, overgrazing, continued land clearance, and the
silting of lakes with the destruction of fish resources are all problems
exacerbated by increasing population pressures. Moreover, the insecurity
of land tenure arrangements, combined with a lack of cultivation methods
that enhance soil conservation, provide no incentive for producers to
maintain and manage land resources.
69.       The strategy which the Government intends to promote is to
introduce policies for developing the rural environment that reconcile the
imperatives of developing agriculture, forestry and stock raising for the
benefit of the population groups concerned, and assign responsibility to
them for the management of natural resources. In addition, by increasing
the security of land tenure, it may be possible to discourage farmers from
exhausting the soil. Preparation of a land tenure code would be a medium-
term objective. The objective of this strategy will also be to enhance
planning and management capacity through training, improved research.
policies, and the Introduction of a permanent information system for
monitoring developments in the subsector.    Currently, a natural resource
magement project to be financed by IDA and other donors is being
prepared, and should enable the Government to implement this strategy. In
addition, in the context to introducing a framework for reviewing and
planning the envlronmental sector as a whole, the Government has just
Initiated -- with support from IDA (through a Norwegian Trust Fund), UNSO,
FAC and the Federal Republic of Germany -- the preparation of an Environ-
mental Action Plan for developing a natlonal capability for identifying,
studying and drawing up priority action plans and defining a national
environmental policy. This operation will take about one and a half years.
This review process and the recomiendations arising from it will focus on
the gradual Introduction of measures with respect to the management of



- 86 -
natural resources, and vili support future action and Investment in the
environmental sector.
Nv.        }A E61T OF THE PZOORM
70.       Overall responsibility for program management and monitoring
continues to rest with the National Adjustment Commission. The Commission
iL composed of senior civil servants at the level of section chief and
above and is directed by a Presidium chaired by the Minister of Finance and
Including the Ministers of Planning, Industry, Energy, Public Enterprises,
Comnerce, Rural Development, a*      Labor and Social Affairs; it can be
enlarged to include National Education, Health, and gquipment and
Transport. At the technical level, the Comission works In sub-commissions
according to key areas of reform. Day-to-day coordination of the work of
the sub-commissions is assured by a technical secretariat whose head is
fully assigned to this task. The full Commission meets once a week to
review progress on the work program. The Commission is not a decision
making body, but reports to the Council of Ministers which takes decisions
under the chairmanship of the President.



1 t~Ii  I               IiIiiiIj 11111
I     W               1g             I   l
.~ ~ ~ J .  .0.*1......



-88-                                  ANNEX V
Pag 2 of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area            Issues/Objectives     Reform Actions Alrady Taken           Reform Acdons To Be Taken
Under SAL I
c. Non-wag. recutrrnt   Ensuring adequate    | esdablshment of SocSal Fund to finncz    -supplmt Socl Fund reour
penditure            funding fior non-wge   priority health and education non-wag  trough donor contributions (199142);
reunt                 rwurrnt expaqditue                    -prgresey teduce sham of
exeditus,                                                   prsonne exda     r in tetal
specially in social                                         reurren expeandt  (1991-93);
sectors                                                     -rach agreemet on 1992 budgty
allons for agricultu, hea, and
education secors and for road
mitnneand utk  onsmtin
-hee agmeio a 1993 bugtr
albacadns for a,um badt, and
educatn sotos, and for rod
mar_    nand utHit owumton,
and assurance th 1992 budgsy
allocation utSid as envisioned"
d. Budget Execution    Stenghe budgday    -conacting of technical assistne to      -adoption and imple_entation of tow
Monitong and Control  and accounting         revis budgery nomenclature;           procu t cods';
procedures            -integrtion into b'udget of taxes presently   -ncorportion of Capil Expenditure
| collecd outside budget              into oveall budget (1991)
11 Investe             PIP to iclde only    -instution of yearly consulttion with  -submission to Dank of quatery
'rog_uma               high profity projecta    Bank by Sepember I of each year on the   repops on status of eecuton of
meeting teat of       following year'a investment program;  invetment program (1991-93)
eonomic, financil
and technical viabity;
-  adeqe progamming
of recnt
a. Muti-year           Medium-term program   -adoption of 3 year rolling investment  -reach agreeimnt n 3-year PIP for
progamming                                   program for 1990-92                   1992-94 and assurance that applcable
potion cexected as plannd';
-rach agreu men on 3-year PIP for
1993-95 and assuance that applibe
portion of agreed 1992-94 PIP
executed as envisioned*
b,. Inprw  mooring   Follow-up of project    -formaliation and adoption of new
and coordination with    execuion;           arageme  for coordnation of
Gln minirs             Stghen               invetment programmin
coordnation between
Ministry of Phnning
and line mhsries
*Cdit Effecives
* Second Tance
Trd Trunche
S Measures in a Sector Projec



- 89-                                    ANNEXVI
Pap 3 of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area      1      8sMI Objectives        R*fm Actions Alteady                    Reform ACio To Bne Ta
|                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Under SAL g    _ 
o. Prjct section        Pftjcg qualt           4dopon of quii    crit    fr-fr nam re
enin.g of dura  oommrial,               invetent sudis (1991-94) S
-*hMl aNd infasbtcurel projects
and     Mgt criteria for social scor
Dl  Pubw  E_erpre
a. Publc-parapubo      Govamem-               -s_emet of end-1987 stock of
sector finail           enrrise, enterprise-   Governmn-nterpris crss claims;
eations                 enepris financial      -completion of Inventory of public
retions                entaprise c   ds and adoption of
action plan to sthem
b. Entrpr               Govement-enterpis   -amedment of atepri  satut to              -eview Government-enterprise
Autnomy                 reltions               conform to 1988 framework law,          performance co    t (1991);
mdpion of oeid f _wwi kw
or non-financial non-commercial
.._           _    _        _    _   _    _ _    _    _   _    _    _    _    _   _      ente pises (1991)
c. Performane           Improved moniorng    -estbliAhmn of a 'tableau de bord' with   -computaion of 'tableau de bord
Monitoring              of enterprise          key indiat  to montor entexprise        (91)
puformaee              acthvitics
* Csodit E feiven
* Second Tenh.
ST Maswd Trnha
S Measurm in a Sectr Projec



- 90                                           ANNEX I
r4 of9
BININ
SBCOND SRUCTnRAL Aw3u8Th8NT PROGRAM
PCCY ATRIX
C  Ama                            Cv         Rfe    Acio   Alreay Talk               Reform Actiom  To Be Takbe
Under SAL 11
d. Divestktm mad                   Woioalrngar of    4Iiqudation of 2 entarprim.s privaiztioa    *inWstiion of fiaomW audit of SCo*;
RP_blliteo                                   of 8 ntpises, compeion of dipgnoio   -uao of bids for a  of La
sTdic of 8 ntaprim;                    edeinPoi;
.ssesmeatof finania requhuneoa for    -splanat                  of
eom pWlna 12 liquiddtons begus in 1986;   p _olm dirbuton stdy, iludn
-isuace of bids for pinvaifg S         SONACOP;
enteprIses; coIilion of diyaosi study  -usuane of bids for bae
of O0S8; muW  sudy for Srl=   s        muasyt pwivatrtion of SSS
of inuo  eor and SONAR(                         1991);
compltion of disgoot swd, of           womplation of SOO finaca audt
S0NACOP. adupbo of srde  for ase-  and adoption of  tion pn
maontrea pfivatnton of SS8;            divesti    of COENAM's
adoption of dvetiu  sratg for         co_mela ac&vil dissolution of
SONICO; initiion of modalits for       CNIP and tunfor of fncion to
bal.zing matm  setr, includiRg;
COBENAM                               -sune of bids for piaition of
SOCOGJM*;
doption of regudao  to govan
inuac  Wu" and edimlnz   of
SONARs monopoly; foll
hle b_aii  of marm  secor and
disma-tling of COBENAMae;
4mp_mddnof ruouo
muesr for OBSS*;
4_lema_f  of divFiure skadqc
fo SONlCOG*s; isunce of bis for
mewf  rv                 of
B. FINANCLAL SYSTEM
1 &es.r                Refm of Speioy        -liquidation of CNCA;
A"gaub"               Bflakn                 -inkition of rehabiatin pra  for td
CRCAM, CLCAM
a  PO& RAoaion of  r                         -liquidation of BCB and BBD begu;       comple liquidation of BCB and
P      _ON *           vit                      Ioe  wth BCEAO on resoduling    DID (199192);
of CNCA's and BBD's det on             pru reoovry of banks' asseb
conoesiont;                            (1991-93)
_esafjislment ofjoint ecovery unit for
BCB. DID and CNCA and prjction  of
_________ __   _______  outt  ing   as s to  be  recovo eed
Atl  _auilrae          Itoducdon of p*vt1   .aabllshment of 4 pivae Oommarnin
spihtaNW              banh
* Cred Dn_dvms
* SeooenTTwra
Thbd Twueoli
SMesaura in.a Secto Projec



- 9l-                                       &WNEX Y1
Pa$ S of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMONT PROGRAM
PCY MATRX
Ptolicy   e           1As1mm ijedvS   I Refrm Acdoos Aredy Tabu                    Re&m Actim  To 3le TWkm
Under SAL B
IV  Legl Fhw *    Cons_eny of lgl                                                   inpbms sXss-  of Study
ftmmlwolk wi neod                                           of lepl mrems
of non-ste  oontrolled
-akA system;
enhae rovay of
V. Rultory            Bank inspecton aNd    -tblis-:ent by the BCRAO of
FrxWieVw*              superIion            stpaaincommission do supervision
_bcair in baCktn legisltion
C. TRADE POLICY REFORM, DEREGULATION AND PRIVAE SECTOR PROM07ON                                   _
L Er. Dade             Pnmotion of eXport                                          -comprehensive stuy of
Libe*alatic and                                                                    competitiveness and agreepent on
-                      _                                                           action plan to promoe ezpozts
a. Quantitative        1mPot lics            -emnoval of impo lkensing requiemets   -reoval of import lcensing
restrictions                                 on goods from Frnc Zone, EEC, and     rqurmens on goods fiom other
ACP couttrs                           coutries
b. Tais                High dipeon of       .etuy of taiff and  duwstl proetion     adoption of gision to implement
tRiSfs and complex    sy_;m                                  nw tariff strt  and industrial
pron  schem          -adon of deailed tarff lrm action    protcon system"
_______________________________ program and implementation of first phase
c. I_nv m              Elinating public     -aopto and implemeation of nw          -rview ivmp ntio of code and
I_nnv                  sector biss, mdaing   rinvstmen code                        adopt ame_dments as requird'
rSime &dor and
_ _ _ _  _   _    sine~dz   neutral_        __               _     _      _      _      _      _     _      _
m~~~~~~~~i flolf
DL Lqe.alud
a.                     Reduction of red tape    adoption and implmetion of new     -review impleentation of law and
Rcommecil lw,                         adopt amendmaes as requrd'
-Imp1_mntai  of simplifed bsiness
b. Labor Padices         l     n   of        -reviion of the 'Loi 83-OO* concering    -rview implmatidn of law and
decisin making        the hiring and laying off of labor;   adopt amendmenAs as requrcd*
4mpemeaLion of revised labor
leilton;
IV. M*b8 Pt&           Degulon of            -educdon of number of commodkies      -revw of rmaining prce controls
mrkt                  mubject to pice cotrol and controed   (1991-92)
profi margin to 4
* Credffetves
* Second Tanche
*T lbW Th_he
S Masu  is a sctor Prje



- 92                                      ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTIwENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area |_u_Objw_ves                     Reform Actions Already Taken            Reform Actions To Be Taken
l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Utnder SAL 11
D. AGRICULTUREL
I Sector Saty          Development of long-   -snior hvel policy seminar to define
term goals and        basic objecves, poicier, and investent
approach              needs;
-completion of study on long-tem
development of sector
M. Support serwces     Strengthening                                                -revision of personnel code,
research, extension                                          cooperivc legislation, private
sevices nd input                                             veerinarian code S;
supply                                                       -privadzation ef PHARNAVET S;
-reorganization and reduction of staff
in MDRAC and CARDERs; staff
tanang and reconversion S;
ransfers of input supply fiumeion to
private setor S
HIl. Conton Sector
a. Producer Prices     Maintenance of        -progressive increase in producer princs to
producer incentives   CPAF 105 per kg in 1989;
incomes              -implementation of producer pricing
system linked to world market trends
b. Marketing           Optimizing export                                            -establishment of mauket information
receipts                                                     service to support oonracting with
sales agents S
IV  Food Crops
a. Food Security       Creation of           -creation of a rapid alert system for  -strengthening of rapid alert system in
information system to    monitoring supply variations        ONC; redefinition of dcentraized
deal with transitory                                         storage (village level)
food security problem
Addressing pemanent   -implementation of pilot food scurity  -review of functions of ONC S
food security issues  projects
V. Liv
a. Subseor's Strategy   Improvement of                                              -examination of the current situation
resource allocation                                          of state farms and the formulation and
adoption of a new policy on subsector,
-taxation of meat imports subsidized
by expoting oountries in context of
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  agreed    tariff  refo mr   S
Credit Effectiveness
* Seond Tranch
e Third Tmanche
S Measutes in a Sector Project



-93 -                                  AN  3
Pag7 of 9
BENIN
SECOND SMUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area            IssueslObjecdves       Reform Acdons Already Taken             Reform Acdons To Be Taken
._____  _               _____                 ,____.____    Urder SAL  U1
E. TRANSPORT
I Rood MaU:ennce    Improved read             -iniiion of coverag from Road Fund     -limitation of use of Road Fund for
maintnace             100% to mutire maintance, and 30%       wages to rad maintace temporary
and 10% on paeiodc  itenane of arth    labor and to incetives for regulr
and paved woads respectively S         road maintenance staff S;
-initiation of privatiation of road
n. Pikb*               Libzaton of            -diagnostic study of CNBF; lbe    n    -disolution of CNBF and transhr of
.____________   trucking                of feight forwarding                    rmainin activities to MBT
Eflicicucy prcig of                                           -reanforcement of cost accounig in
port seVices                                                  PAC S;
-mplemeat additional modifications to
-! ____________         ._____________        _________________________               PAC's  t iff  stru u re    S
am Sector              Inioved financia       -modification of PAC's tariff structure  -maintnance of d¢btJequity ratio at or
Management Po&cy       managenc,                                                      below 35165 for PAC and o0t40 for
expedtu  corol                                                SOBEMAP (1991-93) S
-reduction of SOBEMAP staff as projected  -rdution of PAC staff by 5% per
.  year (1991-93)S
Rationalizing pubLic                                          -liberalization of maritime sector and
sector tole; inreasing                                        dintling of COBENAM*
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   privat   sector    irole_ _ _ _ _ _   _   _  _   _ _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _
F. UILITIES
|. IwkmoJ              Improved managerial   -revision of oontrs d'enprises for OYr
ac.ountabliy          and SBEB
ff. Pricing            Efficiec pricing of                                            -evision of waer, kctricity, and
waer, eectricity and                                         telephone tariffi in in with financal
opipm  nrinkatjom                                             covants in cowtrs d'aentrpris
(1991-93) S
In. Setor                                                                             -aicnanc of SBEE and OPf
Afanageme/tl                                                                         receivables below 4 months (1991-93)
_    ,d re Contol                                                                     S
0. ENERGY
L kaftfionat           Acelrte foreign                                                -ensure performanmc of companies
caphal involvement in                                          ieh explortion contrads (1991-93);
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (1991)
* Credit Effciven
* Second Trnche
** ThW  Tuebe
S Measures in a Sectr Pojet



-94                                       ANNLXVI
Psg S of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTIURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Policy MATRIX
Policy Area           1 esObjectves           Reform  Actions Already Tain            Reform Actons To Be Tak:n
____j                             .                                                 j Under SA II
H. EDUCATION
1. Sector Strtegy      Dc nepmet of           -devJorp_n of education s"ctor policy   -elaboaion of comprhensive sector
coherbt sector       fiamewo*  and plan                       surtg, detailed sub-sor sategics
and kadar for nroducing nsfimms
in primary, seoondary and hFger
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ __   ____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ __   ducation*
a  hniti*nal           Organiton Nd           -initiation of organizaioa audit of    -completion of organizaional audit of
stuctu  of Ministry   Minsty of Education                     Ministry of Education and agreement
of Education                                                  on action plan for iniplenentston of
-iement new organtional
________________                                ._suctur and saffin plana
Mornitorn of                                                  -dopio of menum to ec
teecherpsofessor                                                 s      ,  vok wheduks, ad
savties and                                                   permanoe of bs an unit
R                ! ~~~~~peSmanc                                                  profeswn191)
- iU  FkCw8g            Prct non-Wge          -establishment of Social Fund to finane  -elaboration of a   st-effective
reuient Ic3qdtr       pioftriy mat   an supplies, includig    textbook poEcy (1991)
;_ ______,__            ______*___   primuy school textbooks
NV. Fcency             litera                                                         -fommlation and adoption of a plan
foe inc ng ave a pupil-teaber
trios in deiatay education (1991)
Costs of higer        -stabilization of 1991 scholnhips to 1990   -adoption of a new sholrship poicy
educ        and       level; adoption of plan to contol       to  ke effet fim December I992M ;
inroved lik with      scholahips after 199                   -adopt  of measus to rcglat
labor martWecnoony                                            enanee into the university;
needs ,
1. HEALTH
1. gmaci               Prtction non-wage    -esabishent of Socil Fund to finc        -ewici donor contutions to Socil
rmeuae  expenditur    prirty mat   and supple;                Fund
-establishment of e tald drug
prcuem  s cs (:Cetrale d'Achat)
n  h ro                Coor        and        -t l     of Technical Coodnaton    -completion of organization audit of
inviomentation, of    Commitu, CNEEP                          Ministry of Health and agroement on
sedot polt                                                    action pan to nplane
l~~         ~       ~~~                                  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  I .   _
iLdp of setor aouncnt system           -        _mpig  _  of s_o_r a__un___
gym=s (1991) S;
noviw cm4 rcoovery and accoutg
* Credi Effevenes
* Seoond Tan
* Third Trlnh.
S Meare in a Setor Pojca



- 95 -                                    WNSX!0
Pag9 of 9
BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLU  MATRh
I~~~~~~~ I
Policy Area             ssues(Objectives      Reform Actions Already Taken            Reform Actions To Be Taken
Under SAL II
IV  Invnumnt           Impoe setor            -rviion of 1990-92 sector invegsmt
investmeA             progam to toflect sctor polioy and
__________________   progra m mingp ioritics                              _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _
1. ENVRO      WrNMETr
I Seco Soagev          Deveopmetan            -prepartion of Naural Resource and      -eview of cuent statgy ad
implementation of     Environmait Project                     pepepartion of polcies on
s__ r st                                       _              environmeal poecion (1991)
IL SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OP ADJUSTMENT
tgrte socia           -establisment of Social Fund;           -preoration and implemetion of
diminsion             -inptemeo  of volury depau              ESM proje  to impovc mntoring of
consideraion in       pogm    with well-funded compensto      socil indicators ad pocy
afonnuaion and        PackAge                                 formulation, and to deign speif
.n.  oing of                                                  action pogms (1991-93)
___|__   adjust                   t prora
ProtcP vulnrabk       -etablishent of empbyment and small    -repkcemt of m Sou        i
grups froM            enis Promotion oenter_                  Volt Social with a Cmit do PFotge
ranst_ion  cos of     -nplementtion of 5 pilot food seuit     and a Unite de Gestio to prpae and
adjustmt              opeations                               montor eatio   of SDA stratD
(July 1991);
-pre_ntain of SDA stgy to
Genev Rouadtsbk
Implemnt rehabilition progam for
crs socialinfrstrucure (1991.92);
-implemnt hborwientsis  public
woer  progam; impleme_t
rodeymet and tainig program fr
hid-off publc entepise employe
(1991.92);
-revue    Wabandsrne employment and
man cterpris promofion cut
.__________________   ._____________ .   ,(1991-92)
* Crdit Effc, tva
* Second Trnmeir
S     srsd TinS r
S M;en in t *Secbr !.-ocm



