Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15061
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2283-BEN)
NOVEMBER 21, 1995
Country Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFA franc is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 100 following the
January 12, 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc from a ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French
franc is currently floating.
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO        Banque des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
COBENAM   Benin Maritime Company
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PE           Public Enterprise
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PIP          Public Investment Program
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF          Structural Adjustment Facility
SCO          Onigbolo Cement Company
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SONACOP   Petroleum Distribution Company
SONAPRA    Cotton Company
SONAR        National Insurance Company
SONICOG    Palm Oil Company
SSS          Save Sugar Company
UEMOA        West African Economic and Monetary Union
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
VAT          Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ....:                                                                                            i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                                     ii
PART I: Program Implementation Assessment .I
A.  Program Objectives and Design .I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                         .2
C.  Bank and Borrower Performance                                         .8
D.      Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned                        .9
PART 11: Statistical Annexes .13
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments ........................................... 14
Table 2:         Related Bank Credits ........................................... 15
Table 3:         Project Timetable ........................................... 15
Table 4:         Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................ 16
Table 5:         Key Program  Indicators ........................................... 16
Table 6:         Studies Included in Project ........................................... 16
Table 7:         Status of Compliance with Conditions for Tranche Release ............................. 17
Table 8:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 19
Table 9:         Bank Resources: Missions.9 ..................                                          9
APPENDICES
Appendix A:   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT 2283-BEN
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Program in Benin, for which credit 2283-BEN in the amount of US$55 million
(SDR41.3 million) equivalent was approved on June 26, 1991 and made effective on October 15,
1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1994, 18 months after the original closing date.
The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by January 1992; subsequent
tranches were released in May 1993 and August 1994, and the credit was fully disbursed by
September 1994. Cofinancing for the Adjustment Program was provided by the Swiss and Dutch
governments. Cofinanciers have received copies of the report and have not submitted specific
comments.
This ICR was prepared by Alain D'Hoore, AF4CO, of the Africa Region and reviewed by
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Division Chief, AF4CO, and Franz Kaps, Senior Operations Adviser,
AF4DR. It was approved by Olivier Lafourcade, Director.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, from April 3 to
April 14, 1995. It is based on material in the program files. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by cooperating with the completion mission and providing its own
evaluation that is included as an appendix to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT 2283-BEN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    Benin adopted its first Bank-supported Structural Adjustment Program (SAL I) in 1989, in
the midst of a political, economic, social and administrative crisis. The main focus of SAL I was on
public sector reformn and the creation of an incentive framework supportive of private sector
development. The political crisis eventually paralyzed government action in the course of 1989 but
the implementation of the program resumed in 1990, as a National Conference established an
interim government and set a timetable for elections in early 1991. Despite these problems, SAL I
recorded significant achievements in banking and public enterprise reform, in government resource
mobilization and in trade reform and deregulation.
B.   Program Objectives
2.    The second Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II) was negotiated in 1990, as it had
become apparent that the reform prograrn undertaken under SAL I needed to be pursued further.
The general objectives of SAL II, covering the period 1991-1993, were to: (i) raise real GDP
growth to 4 percent per annum by 1993; (ii) contain the rate of increase of domestic costs and prices
(GDP deflator) to less than 3 percent per annum in order to improve the competitiveness of the
economy given the fixed exchange rate arrangement; and (iii) accelerate the return to a viable
balance of payments position by pursuing policies to expand exports and substitute for imports in
order to limit the current account deficit to the equivalent of 9 percent of GDP by 1993, eliminating
all external payments arrears, and increasing the net foreign assets of the banking system.
3.    SAL II also continued the reform program undertaken under SAL I, with measures to (i)
improve the government's financial position by reestablishing an equilibrium in the primary current
balance in 1991 and a surplus thereafter; (ii) pursue the administrative restructuring of key
ministries and a revised program of civil service departures, targeting an average of 2,000
departures per year over four years; (iii) continue the restructuring of the financial system, and
establish an appropriate judicial and supervisory framework for sound financial intermediation; (iv)
pursue the rationalization of the public enterprise sector through further divestitures, privatization,
and improvements in the financial performance of enterprises remaining in the government
portfolio; and (v) further improve the trade regime and the incentive structure for private
investment. The program also included two new elements linked to Social Developments of
Adjustment (SDA): (i) an emergency rehabilitation program for critical administrative and social
infrastructure, the "Programme d'Urgence"; and (ii) measures to lay the basis for a more thorough
reform of the educational system.



-iii-
C.   Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Macroeconomic objectives were generally met or even exceeded. GDP growth was steady,
and reached an average of 4 percent per annum, compared to projections of 3.4 percent. Inflation
averaged 2.1 percent per year, against a target of 3 percent. In 1994, however, in the aftermath of
the January devaluation of the CFA franc, inflation reached 54 percent on an end-of-period basis.
The current account deficit was also lower than SAL II targets for the period, averaging 7.1 percent
of GDP. A cotton boom, brought about by improved sectoral policies was a major contributor to
domestic growth and exports.
5.    Public finance generally improved over the program period and most program targets were
met. Revenues as a share of GDP reached their pre-crisis level of 13 percent, while the tax base was
broadened and taxation of domestic and imported goods was made less distortionary. The growth in
current expenditures was contained, and as a result, the primary current balance moved from a small
deficit in 1991 to a surplus of 2.6 percent of GDP in 1993. The overall deficit similarly improved,
reaching 6 percent of GDP in 1993. The civil service departure program, which targeted 8,000
departures over the four-year period from 1991 to 1994, was only partially successful, as only about
5,000 pennanent civil service positions were eliminated. Audits contributed to the reorganization of
several ministries.
6.    After the collapse of the public-owned banking system in 1988 and 1989, a new private
commercial banking system has emerged in Benin, as five new banks have started to operate since
the beginning of the adjustment program. The government has continued the cleanup of the three
publicly-owned banks that had failed before SAL I. Loan recovery efforts have only produced
partial results. The government has continued, albeit at a slower pace, its disengagement process
from productive activities. The process of privatization, liquidation or restructuring public
enterprises (PE) had been initiated under SAL I and was continued under SAL II. Actions were
completed on 5 of 16 targeted enterprises. Other restructuring, liquidation or privatization attempts
are still in the process of being completed. Overall, the financial performance of the PE sector has
improved.
7.   Incentives for efficient private activity have partially improved under SAL II. Trade reform
was an area of significant progress. In 1994, a new tariff structure was adopted that gave Benin one
of the most liberal trade regimes of the region. Several price controls were removed in 1991, but
some important controls still remain. Little improvement was recorded in the performance of the
judicial system, and the planned revision of several components of the regulatory framework (labor,
commerce and investment codes, procurement code) did not take place under SAL II.
8.    The government's social strategy has been slowly redesigned, and its capacity in this area
has been developed, over the program period. Spending under the "Programme d'Urgence" led to
the rehabilitation of several schools and community health centers. The government's new
education policy has also been redesigned. The Ministry of Education was restructured following
an organizational audit.



-iv -
D.   Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Most macroeconomic objectives, as well as several structural reform objectives were
effectively achieved under SAL II. In the implementation of the program, however, several
difficulties were encountered with respect to compliance with conditions of tranche release.
Compliance was achieved after several waivers were granted, and with a significant delay relative to
the original schedule. Following Benin's move towards a multi-party democracy, parliamentary
opposition was an important factor in slowing down or blocking progress in implementation
especially since the government did not hold a continuous majority in Parliament given the
multiplicity of parties. Various difficulties were also encountered in the PE divestiture program, as
several privatization attempts proved difficult to complete. Though several exogenous factors
contributed to many of these difficulties, they raise issues of governnent commitment to reform as a
whole in the face of expected or actual social or political opposition.
10.   Despite various successes, important reform efforts still need to be completed, especially in
the PE sector and in private sector promotion, while commitment to macroeconomic stability is
maintained. Macroeconomic outcomes are still sensitive to external factors as the economy is even
less diversified than five years ago and structural weaknesses still remain in the fiscal and the
external positions of the economy. For example, adverse movements in world cotton prices, by
affecting 95 percent of exports revenues, could significantly affect the ability to import, and could
generally hinder Benin's development efforts. To achieve significant improvement in overall
welfare, growth must accelerate and scarce budgetary resources need to be allocated to social and
economic priorities.
Il.   Bank performance in design, appraisal and supervision of the SAL was generally
satisfactory, although the SAL design included too many detailed conditions for tranche release
which sometimes tended to divert attention and focus from the broad policy objectives to a narrow
look at issues.
12.   Borrower performance was also generally satisfactory although there was a considerable
amount of learning by doing in the new democratic environment. This tended to slow things down
and to result in requests for waivers, in particular when either Parliament's priorities or assessment
of issues differed from that of the executive branch.
13.   Key lessons learned from SAL II include the following: (i) Adjustment operations extending
over a three year period with an emphasis on macroeconomic stabilization may be of limited
effectiveness for institutional reform given the short time frame in which they are generally set. To
the extent that institutional reforms require a well-defined long-term strategy, a deep understanding
of existing institutional structures and broad-based ownership from stakeholders, they raise issues
that cannot properly be addressed in a short-term, policy-oriented operation. (ii) More attention
needs to be given to both achieving and maintaining a broad consensus on the reform program,
especially in a new democratic environment. When initial support which was closely linked to
Benin's political transition waned, inadequate attention was given to public information and debate
on the need for further economic reform. Furthermore, the role of democratic institutions needs to
be understood and the implication of this role on the timing and process of reform adoption needs to
be recognized. Reform programs may slow down while governments leam to manage the new



-v -
policy processes required in a democracy. In support thereof, information dissemination and
training ought to be made available to the various actors.
14.   The outcome of the operation can be rated as satisfactory and the reforms achieved appear
sustainable. In many policy areas, objectives were met or exceeded. The operation is being
followed by a SAL III designed to consolidate the reforms in the first two SALs and to help
strengthen the supply response to the CFA franc devaluation. An economic management support
project takes up some of the key challenges on the institutional side. The design of both operations
takes into account the lessons learned from SAL II.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT 2283-BEN
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1.    Benin adopted its first comprehensive adjustment program in 1989 after it had become
apparent that the piece-meal approach to reform that it had started as early as 1982 was not
adequate to address the fundamental weaknesses of its economic strategy and the causes of the
mounting economic crisis. Almost two decades of state domination and mismanagement of the
economy under a marxist-leninist regime had left an economic structure saddled with poorly
designed, low-return public investments, a heavy external debt, an incentive framework hostile to
formal private activity, an inefficient public-dominated modem sector, a bankrupt financial
sector, and an unusually high degree of informalization. The collapse of the banking sector in
1988 and early 1989 provided a trigger to structural adjustment.
2.    The main focus of the First Structural Adjustment Program (SAL I) was on public sector
reform and the creation of an incentive framework supportive of private sector development.
SAL I could not be implemented as planned, as a social and political crisis developed and
eventually paralyzed government action in the course of 1989. In February 1990, a National
Conference established an interim government and a referendum on a new constitution, and set a
timetable for elections in early 1991. The severe crisis in 1989 had led to a sharp fall in
government revenues and the accumulation of additional wage arrears to public employees.
Despite these problems and the requirements of the political transition, the 1990 interim
government recorded significant achievements in the economic reforn program in various areas,
especially in the banking and public enterprise sectors, in government resource mobilization and
in trade reform and deregulation.
3.    Objectives of SAL II. A two year program was not expected to complete the deep
reforms that were considered necessary, but the 1989 crisis made clear that even the objectives
set under the first program would only partially be achieved. As a result, negotiations toward a
second program (SAL II) started in 1990 while SAL I was being implemented. The general
objectives of SAL II, covering the period 1991-1993, were to: (i) raise real GDP growth to 4
percent per annum by 1993; (ii) contain the rate of increase of domestic costs and prices (GDP
deflator) to less than 3 percent per annum in order to improve the competitiveness of the
economy given the fixed exchange rate arrangement; and (iii) accelerate the return to a viable
BOP position by pursuing policies to expand exports and substitute for imports in order to limit
the current account deficit to the equivalent of 9 percent of GDP by 1993, eliminating all external
payments arrears, and increasing the net foreign assets of the banking system.
4.    SAL II continued the reform program undertaken under SAL I, with measures to: (i)
improve the Government's financial position by reestablishing an equilibrium in the primary



-2-
current balance in 1991 and a surplus thereafter; (ii) pursue the administrative restructuring of
key ministries and a revised program of civil service departures, targeting an average of 2,000
departures per year over four years; (iii) continue the restructuring of the financial system, and
establish an appropriate judicial and supervisory framework for sound financial intermediation;
(iv) pursue the rationalization of the public enterprise sector through further divestitures,
privatization, and improvements in the financial performance of enterprises remaining in the
government portfolio; and (v) improve further the trade regime and the incentive structure for
private investment.  The program  also included two new elements:  (i) an emergency
rehabilitation program for critical administrative and social infrastructure, the "Programme
d'Urgence" and (ii) measures to lay the basis for a more thorough reform of the educational
system.
5.    The Bank and the IMF have coordinated assistance in support of the government's
adjustment program, in particular through joint missions for the preparation of PFPs in 1991,
1992, 1994 and 1995. A three-year SAF arrangement for 1989-92 has been followed by a three-
year ESAF arrangement covering 1993-95.
6.    Cofinancing for SAL II was provided by the Swiss and Dutch governments through grant
agreements.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES'
7.    The program was initially conceived to cover the period from 1991 to 1993. Most
objectives relate to this period. However, various delays in implementation led the program to
be extended to 1994. In January 1994, Benin along with other CFA zone countries devalued the
CFA franc by 50 percent. The analysis of macroeconomic objectives and outcomes below covers
mostly the period 1991-1993 for which relevant comparisons can be made.
8.    Growth. Growth has exceeded the program objectives, averaging 4 percent during 1991-
93, compared with average SAL II projections of 3.4 percent. Sectoral policies and projects have
led to a boom in cotton (which is grown by 40 percent of farmers) - an increase of 150 percent in
volume of production over the last 5 years - and reasonable growth in other subsectors. Indeed,
years of above average growth correspond to years of exceptional cotton growth; for examnple,
in 1991, agricultural growth reached 8 percent in real terms, due to growth of cotton production
of over 35 percent. Agricultural growth in turn has supported growth in otier sectors, especially
commerce, transportation and other services. Formal transit trade to landlocked countries
(Burkina Faso, Niger), for which Benin competes with Togo, constitutes an important part of
activity in the service sector. Growth in that sector has been enhanced by the crisis that started in
Togo in 1991.
Key program objectives and tal macroeconomic indicators are presented in Table 5 in annex.



-3-
9.   Inflation. Inflation during the 1991-93 period averaged 2.1 percent per year, below the
SAL II target of 3 percent. Since Benin is part of the West-African Monetary Union (UMOA),
objectives and instruments of monetary policy are set and managed within this supranational
system in collaboration with the government. Money supply grew by almost 75 percent from
1990 to 1993, but prices remained stable. The relation between money and prices seems unusual,
but it reflects the emergence of new private banks and the increase in money demand to the
domestic monetary system, after the collapse of the banking system in 1989 and the substitution
towards currency and banking services from other countries that had taken place at that time.
Since the end of 1992, however, a more normal relationship seems to have been reestablished
between money supply growth, prices and real growth.
10.   Although inflation performance in 1994 should not be compared with that of previous
years because of the extraordinary character of the devaluation, it shows potential weaknesses in
monetary performance. The initial impact of the devaluation on prices, accommodated by
monetary growth, was clearly limited to about 30 percent over a few months. But the money
stock subsequently grew sharply out of line to the likely increase in money demand, as a result of
a larger than expected increase in net foreign assets. This, combined with various inflationary
triggers, such as civil service nominal wage increases, led to an additional increase in prices of
about 20 percent in the last 4 months of 1994.
11.   External developments. The current account deficit was also lower than the SAL II
targets for 1991-93, averaging 7.1 percent of GDP over the period, relative to a SAL II target of
10.1 percent. Growth in the volume of domestic exports averaged about 10 percent per year over
the program period and was almost entirely due to the boom in cotton production. In 1992 and
1993, lower world prices contributed to a relative decline in domestic exports receipts but the
recovery of prices in 1994 and the devaluation led to an increase of 5 percentage points in the
domestic-export-to-GDP ratio. As a result, cotton contributes an even larger share of domestic
exports than before and export diversification has not taken place. Imports grew by about 6
percent from 1990 to 1993. Following the January 1994 devaluation, the volume of domestic
imports contracted by almost 30 percent in 1994, their nominal value in CFA franc increased by
over 40 percent and the current balance improved, showing a deficit of only 3.1 percent of GDP.
12.   The capital account of the balance of payments showed a small improvement over the
period, though its structural dependence on foreign aid in the form of official grants and debt
relief has not changed significantly. In 1994, the devaluation induced a sharp drop in the trade
deficit, at unchanged levels of net foreign capital. As a result, external reserves increased
sharply, which in turn was a major cause of the sharp increase in the money supply.
13. Public finance. The ratio of central government revenues to GDP reached its pre-crisis
level of 13 percent in 1993 above the SAL II target of 12.3 percent. This was achieved through a



-4 -
broadening of the tax base which contributed to the elimination of several tax distortions.
Important reforms included the introduction of a single-rate VAT in 1991, and various reforms in
tax administration and the structure of taxation.
14.   Current expenditures declined from 14.1 in 1990 to 12.9 percent of GDP in 1993, while
the primary current balance moved from a small deficit to a surplus of 2.6 percent of GDP in
1993. The overall deficit (on a commitment basis) declined from 10 percent of GDP in 1990 to
4.7 percent in 1993 but rose to 6.7 percent in 1994. Personnel expenditures (wages and
pensions) decreased from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 7.5 percent in 1993, against an objective
of 6.9 percent, then decreased substantially in 1994 to 6.2 percent of GDP. Non-wage recurrent
expenditures increased from 2.8 percent of GDP in 1990 to 3.2 percent in 1993, and 3.9 percent
in 1994. Overall, public finance objectives of SAL II were thus largely met. The key measures
to control growth in the wage bill were a civil service departure program and a policy of
containment of nominal wages. Though there was some effort to limit wage growth, average
wages rose sharply above inflation: on a December-to-December basis, average civil service
wages grew by 4.4 percent in 1991, 13.1 percent in 1992 and 5 percent in 1993. Only in 1994
did real wages fall, as a result of larger than expected inflation. As a result, from 1990 to 1993,
the wage bill, including pensions, increased by 7.5 percent in nominal terms, and about 1 percent
in real terms up to and including 1993.
15.   The sharp increase in revenues contributed to an increase in government funding of its
public investment program. However, the share of the PIP financed by foreign donors has
continued to be very high and has only marginally decreased. It averaged 92 percent over the
program period. The budgetary contribution to investment increased from CFA franc 2 billion in
1991 to 3 billion in 1993 and 6.3 billion in 1994.
16.   Administrative restructuring and civil service departure. SAL II targeted a reduction
of 16 percent in the civil service, over a four-year period, which required the elimination of 2,000
permanent positions each year from 1991 to 1994. No departures were recorded in 1991. In
1992, a total of 2,609 permanent civil servants and military left under the Voluntary Departure
Programn. In 1993, a total of about 700 civil servants left, including 490 redundancies from the
Ministry of Rural Development; there was an additional departure of 1,600 "temporaries" whose
situation had never been regularized, as well as a small number of departures identified through a
preliminary review of civil service registers. In 1994, there were no significant departures. In
total, against the objective of 8,000 permanent civil (and military) over the 4-year period from
1991 to 1994, about 3,300 permanent agents of the civil service left the public sector under the
second Voluntary Departure Program and an additional reduction of 1,700 permanent positions
was achieved through attrition and a hiring freeze.
17.   Several organizational audits were also completed during the program period and led to
the restructuring of some important ministries. It is apparent that some of these reorganizations



-5 -
have improved administrative efficiency, for example in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Rural Development, although it is in general difficult to make a more comprehensive
assessment.
18.   Financial sector reform. Since the collapse of three government-owned commercial
banks in 1988 and 1989, a new private commercial banking sector has emerged. Five entirely
private commercial banks are now active in Benin under the supervision of the new Banking
Commission created in October 1990 within the framework of the West African Monetary Union
(UMOA).
19.   The cleanup of failed banks has proceeded, albeit slowly. Some asset recovery actions,
such as offsets and sales of seized assets have exceeded objectives while loan recoveries reached
only 63 percent of targeted objectives. Major private debtors, small in numbers but representing
the largest share of assets, have resisted recovery efforts, as the judicial system was too weak to
cope with their legal tactics. More important than the financial objectives of the cleanup effort,
are its implications on the soundness of banking sector. New banks have relatively small credit
portfolios; in addition to the fact that the new banks have had to build their credit and business
knowledge from the start, monetary and financial policies before the BCEAO reform of October
1993 had discouraged efficient business lending. The devaluation constituted the first test of the
soundness of credit portfolios of new private banks. For many of them the devaluation also
brought windfall valuation gains, given their net foreign asset position.
20.   Public enterprise reform program. The public enterprise restructuring program had
started even before the first adjustment program and a relatively fast disengagement process had
begun in 1988. For example, 5 large privatizations were completed between 1988 and the first
half of 1991, and liquidation proceedings started for 16 other enterprises with a significant
indebtedness.
21.   SAL 11 targeted sixteen public enterprises for action, i.e. liquidation, privatizations or
restructuring. Out of sixteen, actions on only five were effectively completed. A major success
was achieved in the sale to a foreign investor of the Beninese brewery, which was one of the two
conditions of effectiveness of SAL II. Several other privatization attempts were unsuccessful,
either because calls for bids did not attract bidders, or because offers received by the government
were considered unacceptable.  Though the overvaluation of the CFA franc prior to the
devaluation might have made Benin unattractive to some foreign investors, the contents of
"cahiers de charge"  for several privatization experiences also reveal several non-economic
concerns from the government that may have discouraged prospective investors. In other cases,
the firms in question were of limited economic weight, if not altogether closed. Two firms, the
Save Sugar Company (SSS), which is not operating, and the Onigbolo Cement Company (SCO),
are jointly owned with the Government of Nigeria, and, though agreements as to the form of



-6-
privatizations were declared to have been reached, political events in Nigeria effectively
prevented their actual implementation.
22.   Trade policy. Trade reform was to be introduced in two phases. In a first phase,
undertaken in 1990 and 1991 as part of prior actions of SAL II, the government adopted a
simplified taxation structure of imports, the elimination of remaining import licensing
requirements and various measures aimed at strengthening customs and tax administration.
23.   The second phase, which was implemented in early 1994, included the adoption of a
simplified rate structure, coupled with a reduction of the maximum rate from 63 percent to 20
percent, and the elimination of reference values and their replacement by the full CIF value of
goods as the basis for tariff assessment. The trade regime of Benin has become one of the most
liberal in the region.
24.   Private sector and incentive structure. The overall policy stance regarding private
sector development depends on the macroeconomic environment, the legal framework and the
performance of the judicial system, the taxation and trade regime, private sector promotion
efforts, financial sector reform, privatization as an element of the business climate, and
discriminatory treatment in law and government practices.
25.   As noted above, the stabilization of the Beninese macroeconomy has been successful
under the two consecutive SALs. Thus, a key necessary condition for private sector growth has
been achieved under the program.
26.   On the legal framnework and the performance of the judicial system, evidence, primarily
from judgments of market participants, indicates that there are important deficiencies in the
system. Possibly the clearest evidence is pointed out above in the section on loan recovery
efforts.
27.   As part of the overall reform program, investment, labor and commerce codes had been
revised by the government under SAL I but they contained several inadequate provisions, with
an anti-private sector bias and public sector emphasis inherited from the previous administration.
It was agreed under SAL II that these revisions to the codes would be reviewed. The revision of
the labor code has only recently been completed. A new investment code was still being
reviewed in mid-1995. Finally, little progress on price controls was achieved under SAL II.
Many price controls had been removed before and as part of SAL I. In May 1991, controls on
six products were removed. The continuation of remaining price controls was initially to be
reexamined but this reexamination did not take place under SAL II. These price controls and
other government pricing decisions are small in number but some are arguably important -
cement, rice, petroleum products, bread, milk, school supplies, public utility tariffs. The
adoption of a new public procurement code followed a path roughly similar to that of the labor



-7-
and investment codes. After several revisions, a new code was approved by the government in
January 1994 but has since awaited approval by Parliament. These measures have been
incorporated into SAL III (see below).
28.   Private formal activity still faces significant hurdles in Benin. Practices to open a new
business are cumbersome and susceptible to politicization.  Public sector preference and
governmental attitudes toward private sector are also revealed through individual practices of
discrimination, either in the application of existing laws, tax codes and other regulations, or
through direct interventions of government actors in private investment decisions. There were
several attempts at creating vehicles for private sector promotion during SAL II, most of which
were limited in scope. The government initiated a broad-based discussion on private sector
issues by gathering stakeholders, i.e. private sector representatives, donors, and government at a
Roundtable at the end of 1994 to identify key policy measures and new initiatives.
29.   Social dimension of adjustment (SDA). The SDA component of the program originally
contained two parts: a long-term, institution-building component, in the context of a proposed
IDA-financed Economic Management project, and a short-term, social spending component, the
"Programme d'Urgence". The institution-building component aimed at: (i) developing the
capacity of government and non-government institutions to identify, analyze and understand
poverty issues and to design effective programs to deal with them; (ii) undertaking some actions,
such as a labor-intensive public works program; and (iii) setting a comprehensive policy
framework in which donors, government and other stakeholders - including beneficiaries
themselves - would be able to coordinate, design and improve such programs. An important step
in this process was the organization of the Donor roundtable in Geneva in April 1992. Initial
achievements included the creation of dedicated public agencies or commissions and their
representation in existing economic policy making structures, the training of their staff and the
design of an overall SDA strategy. A health services program and a few other initiatives were
also undertaken.  The Economic Management project which was aimed at supporting
institutional development did not take off as a result of various disagreements between
government and the Bank, and was eventually restructured in 1995. To the extent that precise
objectives were not formally spelled out, it is difficult to assess the degree to which SAL 11
effectively achieved them.
30.   In 1990, discussions started between the Bank, UNDP and the government on the setting
up of a program to address critical problems of social and educational infrastructure which had
been inherited from the economic and political crisis that preceded SAL II. Normal channels of
external assistance and public investment were deemed inadequate to address these critical needs
in the required form, and a "Programme d'Urgence" was set up. After its launching in late 1990,
several problems emerged, in particular in the form under which the program would be managed
and in the availability of information required to design the preliminary components of the
program. After 18 months of discussions, the program effectively started in March 1992. The



-8 -
program, which was still active in 1994, was plagued by numerous difficulties, including
misunderstanding on the part of the Beninese administration as to the nature of projects to be
undertaken, limited monitoring capability and slow Bank procedures to approve projects. Only
about CFA franc 3 billion of financing (or less than 1 percent of the overall public investment
program over the period) was carried out under the "Programme d'Urgence", mainly for the
rehabilitation of schools and community health centers, and the purchase of equipment and
vehicles for these centers.
31.   Education policy.  As in the SDA component of the program, education policy
objectives were not quantified or formally articulated in the design of the operation. SAL II
generally supported education objectives through requirements as to budgetary allocations for
education, including higher allocations for non-wage expenditures and limits on university
scholarships which were disproportionately consuming financial resources to education, and the
reorganization of the Education Ministry following its organizational audit. These measures
were seen as laying the ground for a more thorough reformn through another IDA-financed
education sector adjustment operation. In the event, this operation did not take place as planned
and was later replaced by an Education Development project which was signed in June 1994 and
became effective in July 1995. Therefore, limited achievements were recorded in education
policy outcomes as a result of SAL II per se.
C.  BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank performance
32.   The design of SAL II was largely drawn from SAL I, in recognition of the fact that most
reforms undertaken under the first program had not been completed and would need to be
sustained. Though additions to the basic design of SAL I were few, the new adjustment
operation was very broad, covering a range of detailed reform issues. As a result, the program
lacked focus and was possibly too detailed. The program included two sets of 15 conditions for
tranche release, ranging from very specific actions to broad policy reforms. In retrospect, some
actions were probably too specific, especially concerning the public enterprise reform process.
As a result, one of the central objectives of the adjustment program, the improvement in the
economic environment for private activity, was eclipsed by a narrow focus on public sector
concerns.
33.   The program was based mostly on the operational experience of government and Bank
staff, not on recent pieces of economic and institutional analyses that had been discussed and
shared with government and stakeholders at large. Indeed several studies were undertaken as
part of the initial phase of the program itself. When the quality or relevance of some of these
studies was found to be inadequate, as in the case of the petroleum distribution sector study or
the competitiveness study, implementation of reforms had to be postponed.



-9-
34.   Supervision missions were adequate and timely. Progress issues, especially concerning
the status of compliance with tranche release conditions, were readily and clearly identified and
reported in aide-memoires. In several instances, however, the Bank was slow in providing
agree(d response or feedback.
35.   Donor coordination was satisfactory at the early stages of the program but, according to
donor representatives, deteriorated at a later stage. However, coordination issues with respect to
implementation of SAL II per se were limited.
Borrower performance
36.   The inter-ministerial Commission Nationale de Suivi de l'Application du Program
d'Ajustement Structurel (CNSAPAS), established in 1989, continued under SAL II to oversee
implementation and to monitor progress. Detailed progress reports were submitted to the Bank
on a regular basis.
37.   The program encountered most difficulties with respect to compliance with conditions of
tranche release. As a result, the second tranche was released 14 months, and the third tranche
almost two years, behind intended schedule.
38.   Waivers were eventually requested and granted for four of these conditions. In three
cases, further expected delays in parliamentary approval were taken to justify the granting of the
request for waivers. In addition, several conditions were considered fulfilled or substantially
fulfilled even when limited progress was accomplished toward the objectives they were intended
to achieve (e.g. civil service reduction and organizational audits, specific measures for the
recovery of loans, action plan for SCO, insurance regulation, implementation of annual portions
of public investment rolling plan, privatization strategy for palm products parastatals).
39.   The slowness of Parliament to give priority to some issues considered crucial by the
executive branch was often a major obstacle to the actions of the government. However, many
of these difficulties raise issues of government commitment to the overall reform program in the
face of expected or actual social or political opposition.  When political opposition or
administrative bottlenecks became apparent, the government did not respond by devoting more
resources where they were needed, by seeking alternative routes to effect new reforms or by
stepping up efforts to achieve consensus on the continuation of the reform program.
D.   SUSTAINABILITY, ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND LESSONS LEARNED
40.   Assessment of outcome. In many policy areas, objectives were met or exceeded.
Overall, the performance of the operation was satisfactory.



- 10-
41.   Macroeconomic outcomes, in terms of growth, stability, inflation and external balance,
were largely successful, especially compared to other countries in the sub-region and given the
constraint of an overvalued exchange rate. However, even if these objectives may have seemed
ambitious at the onset, an average real growth per capita of 1 percent per year is too low to
significantly increase overall welfare. The CFA franc devaluation of January 1994 has removed
an important disincentive to private investment. Given its past record of reform, Benin stands to
gain much from the devaluation, if it manages to sustain the degree of real depreciation and
removes remaining hurdles to private activity and investment. Monetary events in 1994 also
illustrate potential problems in the control of inflation and the interaction of external, fiscal and
monetary developments. Other structural weaknesses remain. The fundamental budget deficit is
still large, especially when account is taken of public enterprise borrowing. External balance
remains fragile, as exports earnings are highly concentrated and foreign capital is still largely
public. Indeed, the Benin export sector has become more concentrated as a result of the success
of cotton and the decline of the small crude oil sector.
42.   In the area of public enterprise reform, much remains to be done. The effective degree of
disengagement from productive activities by the state is often exaggerated by the number of
enterprises that were liquidated or privatized over the last decade. A substantial public enterprise
sector still remains, operating in sectors as diverse as transport, agro-business, communications,
infrastructure, finance and energy. Although the size of the PE portfolio has dramatically
declined in terms of numbers of enterprises from 1988 to 1994, it has only been reduced by about
a fifth on the basis of the economic weight of PE's. The efficiency of the economy, and its
attractiveness to private investors, would be strongly enhanced by an acceleration of the PE
reform program.
43.   Much remains to be done also in the area of civil service and administrative reform. An
overall public sector strategy is still lacking. A significant reduction of 6,000 permanent
positions in the civil service has been achieved from 1988 to 1994 but it was considerably
smaller that the large expansion that took place from 1979 to 1986, when the civil force more
than doubled. The fact that significant deficiencies in qualified personnel may exist in some
sectors of the administration should not detract attention from the fact that other sectors may be
overstaffed, or that the role of the state has to be revised and may be considerably reduced in yet
other sectors. The Beninese administration also needs to pursue additional reforms to become an
efficient provider of core public services. Planning capacity on a sound economic basis remains
weak. The process of allocating limited budgetary resources to social and economic priorities
needs to be improved.
44.   Finally, policy makers need to continue efforts to support and promote private sector
development. Progress in taxation and the trade regime, in macroeconomic stability, in the
quality of financial intermediation, as well as in deregulation, the provision of infrastructure and



privatization will not lead to the dramatic increase in private investment that is required to
achieve rapid growth unless the overall policy environment is perceived by the private sector to
be conducive to long-term investment in productive activities.
45.   Sustainability. Given the record of achievement in various parts of the reforn program,
the prospects for sustainability of SAL II are positive. The successful maintenance of a
reasonable degree of fiscal discipline makes a dramatic shift unlikely. The same is true of trade
policy, domestic taxation and deregulation, even if past achievements need to be consolidated.
Although much remains to be done in the areas of public enterprise and public administration
reform, the direction of previous adjustment operations has not been challenged and the Third
Structural Adjustment Program contains several measures to address these issues (see Para. 47
below). Overall, the achievements under SAL II are considered sustainable.
46.   Lessons learned. Key lessons learned from SAL II are:
(i)    Adjustment operations extending over a three year period with an emphasis on
macroeconomic stabilization may be of limited effectiveness for institutional
reform given the short time frame in which they are generally set. To the extent
that institutional reforms require a well-defined long-term strategy, a deep
understanding of existing institutional structures and broad-based ownership from
stakeholders, they raise issues that cannot properly be addressed in a short-term,
policy-oriented operation.
(ii)   Even at the microlevel, well articulated reform strategies should precede plans and
their implementation. The civil service reduction program during the two SALs
in Benin is a case in point. Without the benefit of a clearly defined strategy, this
program failed to achieve its intended objectives, yet was largely perceived as
socially costly and created staffing problems in several ministries.
(iii)  More attention needs to be given to both achieving and maintaining a broad
consensus on the reform program, especially in a new democratic environment.
When initial support which was closely linked to Benin's political transition
waned, inadequate attention was given to public information and debate on the
need for further economic reform.  Furthermore, the role of democratic
institutions needs to be understood and the implication of this role on the timing
and process of reform adoption needs to be recognized. Reform programs may
slow down while governments learn to manage the new policy processes required
in a democracy. In support thereof, information dissemination and training ought
to be made available to the various actors.



- 12-
(iv)  The SAL I lesson that "firmness on the part of donors when a program has gone
off track can contribute to the emergence of a better basis for program
implementation" also applies to SAL II where the pace of reforms was
considerably slower than envisaged. No credit tranche in either SAL was released
without a request for waivers. While each specific waiver was clearly justified,
the repeated recourse to waivers may undermine the resolve of the Government to
devote the required attention and resources to completing difficult reforms.
47.   SAL III.  Adjustment efforts are being pursued in a Third Structural Adjustment
Program, supported in part by an IDA Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2727-BEN). Its main objectives
are to strengthen the supply response to the devaluation of the CFA franc and consolidate
reforms initiated under SAL I and II in two main areas. First, it will support improved incentives
for private sector development through further simplification and rationalization of foreign trade
taxation, a deeper restructuring of domestic indirect and direct taxation, additional changes in the
regulations governing commercial activity, investment and the labor market, and public
enterprise divestiture. Second, it will support improved management of public resources and
delivery of public services by restructuring current expenditures, improving public investment
programming and execution, and reorganizing key ministries. This adjustment operation has
taken into account lessons learned from SAL I and II in several respects. It has narrowed down
the scope of the reform program, encouraged government to undertake various public
information initiatives, and made tranche release conditions smaller in number and more clearly
defined. Though the focus on institutional reform is reinforced, the actual implementation of
specific measures will be carried out under parallel projects and supported by additional
economic and sector work. A key component of these efforts will be the Economic Management
Support Project (PAGE, Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique) which aims to strengthen
management and planning in key economic and sector ministries.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT 2283-BEN
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Program Indicators
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7:  Status of Compliance with Conditions for Tranche Release
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial I       Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     I/
Sector Policies                                                                         I
Financial Objectives                /
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                                                                     I'
Poverty Reduction                                    I
Gender Issues                                                                           1
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                          .1
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                     Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory   :Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                       I
Appraisal                                                     I
Supervision                                                  I'
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly
satisfactorySatisfactory Deftcient
Preparation                                                   I/
Implementation                                                I/
Covenant Compliance                                                                     I
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly                                             Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory



- 15-
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose            Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. SAL I               To fundamentally reorient      1989                  Closed
Benin's development
strategy to greater reliance
on private initiative and
market forces
Following operations
1. SAL III             To consolidate reforms         1995                 Approved
initiated since 1990 and
strengthen the supply
response to the
devaluation of he CFA
franc
Table 3: Project TimetablW
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Appraisal                                                          December 1990
Negotiations                                                       May 1991
Letter of Development Policy                                       May 31, 1991
Board Presentation                                                June 27, 1991
Signing                                                           July 12, 1991
Effectiveness                                                      October 15, 1991
Second Tranche Release                        March 1992           May 1993
Third Tranche Release                         November 1992        August 1994
Loan Closing                                  June 30, 1993       December 31,1994



- 16-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
J ~FY92        FY93~~    FY94          ~     FY95
Appraisal Estimate           40,000        55,000       55,000           55,000
Actual                       25,248        40,990       40,990           57,467
Actual as % of Estimate       63%           75%          75%             104%
Date of final Disbursement                          I _             September 6, 1994
Table 5: Key Program Indicators
Projections                          Ata
1991    1992    1993       1994    1991    1992    1993    1994
GDP growth                  3.0%     3.5%     3.8%     4.1%     4.7%    4.1%     3.2%     4.6%
In Percent of GDP
Gross Domestic Investment   13.8%    14.2%    14.3%    14.7%    14.5%    13.9%    14.9%    14.1%
Current Account Balance    -11.2%   -10.5%    -9.3%    -7.9%    -5.7%    -8.0%    -7.5%    -3.1%
Government Revenues        10.8%    11.3%    12.3%    13.0%    11.5%    12.2%    12.9%    12.4%
Total Expenditures         20.3%    19.3%    18.7%    18.1%    18.7%    20.2%    17.6%    19.1%
Primary Surplus             0.0%     1.4%    2.7%      3.6%     0.8%     1.5%    2.6%     2.7%
Overall Deficit            -9.7%    -8.0%    -6.4%    -5.1%    -7.2%    -8.0%    -4.7%    -6.7%
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Puroe as Defined 
Study             at Appraisal/Redefined             Status         Impa*t of Study 
1. Study on the External   To help prepare an action  Completed with     Limited
Competitiveness o:f Benin  plan for the promotion of  delay
exports



- 17 -
Table 7: Status of Compliance with Conditions for Tranche Release
Preset status                            Description of Condition                                Comments
Release of Second Tranche
C             Agreement has been reached with the Association on a 3 year rolling PIP for 1992-  Execution rates were about
1994 and the applicable portion thereof has been carried out as planned    700/o.
C             Agreement has been reached with the Association on budgetary allocations to be
appropriated in the 1992 budget for the agricultural, education and health sectors, for
road maintenance and govemment utility consumption
C             The execution of the 1991 budget shows that an equilibrium in the govemment's  A surplus of 1. 1% of GDP
current primary operations has been attained, or corrective measures to achieve such    was achieved.
equilibrium have been implemented
C             The Government has taken specific measures, agreed by IDA, to enhance recovery of   Some measures were taken,
bank loans, including reforms of judicial procedures, land title arrangements and  but their impact was
records, and changes in commercial laws                                     insignificant.
C             The financial audit of SCO has been completed and an action plan adopted to  SCO privatization blocked
implement the recommendations acceptable to IDA                             by developments in
Nigeria.
CP             Agreed reforms on the petroleum distribution and taxation system, including  A waiver for second
SONACOP, have been fully implemented                                        tranche release was granted.
C             Financial restructuring measures for OBSS have been agreed upon with the
Association, and have been implemented
C             SONAR's monopoly has been eliminated and private insurance regulations have been   No private insurance
adopted                                                                     company operates in Benin
yet.
C             COBENAM has been divested of its commercial activities
C             CNBF has been dissolved and its data collection activities, as well as the control of
international transportation arrangements have been transferred to the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport
C             All remaining import licensing requirements have been removed                This measure took one year
of debate in Parliament.
NC             The Borrower has enacted a Public Procurement Code                          A waiver was granted.
C             The Borrower has implemented the recommendations of the organizational audit of its
Ministry of Finance agreed to by the Association
C             Agreement has been reached on an action plan for implementing the recommendations
of the organizational audits of the Ministries of Education and Health
CP             A minimum of 2,000 staff have permanently departed the civil service during calendar  Though no departures took
year 1991                                                                   place in 1991, a higher rate
of departure in 1992 was
taken to justify the CP
rating.
C             Permanent civil service departures, with the elimination of related staff positions  The total number of
occurred in 1992 at a monthly rate resulting in 2,000 departures a year     departing permanent civil
service agents reached
about 2,600 in 1992.
C             The Borrower has adopted an education policy, strategy and action plan acceptable to
the Association, and has adopted legislation to regulate entrance into its university



- 18 -
Present statusv  1    V V  l              I)Description of Condition                                Comments
Release of Third Tranche
C              Agreement has been reached with the Association on a 3 year rolling PIP for 1993-  Rates of execution (around
1995 and the applicable portion agreed for 1992-1994 has been carried out as planned   70%) were comparable in
1993 to 1991-92.
C              Agreement has been reached with the Association on budgetary allocations to be
appropriated in the 1993 budget for the agricultural, education and health sectors, for
road maintenance and government utility consumption
C              The budgetary allocations agreed to in the 1992 budget have been utilized as planned   On a commitment basis,
resp. 800/o, 55% and 76% of
allocation to education,
health and roads was spent.
C              The execution of the 1992 budget shows that the targeted surplus in the government's
current primary operations has been or is being generated
C              Revised organigrams and staffing plans for the Ministries of Education and Health, as
recommended by the organizational audits, have been implemented
C              Organizational audits, under terms of reference agreed upon by IDA, have commenced
for the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, the Ministry of Plan and Statistics, the
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Public Enterprises, and the Ministry of Labor and
Social Affairs
C              Permanent civil service departures, with the elimination of the related staff positions,   In 1993, there was a
occurred after 1992 at a monthly rate resulting in 2,000 departures per year  reduction of civil service of
only 600 permanent civil
service agents.
C              The Borrower has adopted the appropriate legislation to implement the tariff structure   A major tariff reform was
and industrial protection system agreed upon with the Association             completed in 1994.
NC              The Borrower has made revisions to the legislation pertaining to investment promotion, A waiver was granted.
labor relations and commercial activity satisfactory to the Association
C              The Borrower and the Association have agreed on a privatization strategy for  A new strategy has been
SONICOG and such strategy has been fully implemented                          adopted though not yet
implemented.
CP              The maritime sector has been liberalized and the Compagnie Beninoise de Navigation
Maritime (COBENAM) integrated into a regional maritime consortium or dismantled,
and an invitation to bid issued for the purchase of its assets.
C              The Borrower has taken all measures to implement legislation to regulate entrance into  The level of expenditures
its university, has adopted a new scholarship policy acceptable to the Association, and  for scholarship has not been
has enacted legislation to reduce university scholarships, with effect from December   reduced significantly.
1992, to a level acceptable to the Association
C              An action plan to improve the Borrower's competitiveness in international markets,    The study was completed,
agreed with the Association, has been adopted and implemented                 but made largely irrelevant
by the devaluation.
C              Agreed reforms on the petroleum distribution and taxation system, including   Several but not all reforms
SONACOP, have been fully implemented                                          have been implemented.
NC              The Borrower has enacted a Public Procurement Code                            A waiver was granted.
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 19-
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned Staff Weeks            Revised Staff Weeks               Actual Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                        N/A                            N/A                              78.4
Appraisal-Board                          N/A                            N/A                              61.1
Board-Effectiveness                      N/A                            N/A                              0.0
Supervision                              N/A                            N/A                             221.7
Completion                                11.0                          11.0                             15.0
TOTAL                                     11.0                          11.0                            376.2
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/    Number        Days in        Specialized    Implementatio    Development    Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field       Represented         Sn           Objectives     Proble:ms
Persons        Represented       ~~~~Status
Appraisal              12/90                  14            Yes
Post-Appraisal         5/91                   NA             NA
Supervision            12/91      7           18            Yes                    2               2
Supervision            7/92       5           24            Yes                    2               2
Supervision            2/93       4           11             No                    2               2
Supervision            2/94       8           15            Yes                    2               2
Completion             4/95       2           12             No                    -              - .



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT 2283-BEN
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



page 1f 15
INTRODUCTION
1. A la fin des annees 80, le B4nin 4tait confront4 A de graves
problemes 6conomiques et financiers caract6ris6s par
- le ralentissement de la croissance 6conomique
- la baisse importante du revenu par habitant ;
- la dogradation des infrastructures 6conomiques et socialesi;
- 1 'amenuisement des recettes budg6taires ;
- 1'aggravation des desequilibres internes et externes
- 1'accumulation d'arri6r&s de paiements int6rieurs et
ext6rieurs ;
- et un endettement insoutenel:le envers la Banque Centrale..
Pour  mettre  f in  a  cette  situation,  un  premier programme
d'ajustement structurel a dtd conclu et mis en oeuvre en 1989
avec 1'appui des  Institutions de Brettxm; Woods et d'autres
partenaires  au  d6veloppement.  Seulement,  avec  le contexte
militaro-marxiste, le programme n'a pu 8tre conduit & terme.
2. A 1'issue d'un changement d1option politique et 6conomaique
intervenu lors de la Conf6rence Nationale des Forces VivesF d,e
fdvrier 1990 et au cours de laquelle 1l programme d'ajustement
structurel a Ate  reconnu comma incontournable, un deuxiieme
programme a 6t6 n6goci6 avec le Fonds 3xtn6taire International
et la Banque Mondiale pour la piriode 1991-1994.
Ce programme d'ajustement structural appel4 PAS II, iax4
essentiellement sur l'assainissement dconomique avait pour
but:
- drassurer une reprise de la croissance iconomique avecl un
taux moyen annuel de 4 t sup6rieur au taux de croissance de la
population gui est de 3,75 % ;
- de restaurer une position viable des finances publiques et de
la balance des paiements ;
- de contenir l'augmentation des prix A 2,5 t par an.
Les objectifa prioritaires de ce progre sont notaimert
*  le  r6tablissement  do  liquilibre  dang les  op6rations
financi6res  de  1'Etat par  la  re tauration  du  niveau ides
recettes et le maintien d' une grande rigueur en mati6re de
d6penses courantes;
. la resorption des arri6r6s de paieaents intdrieurs de
1'Etat ;
. la restructuration des entreprises publiques et la r6duation
du portefeuille de 1'Etat ;



Page 2 of 15
RESULTATS OBTENUS DE 1991 A 1994
En depit d'un environnement &conomiique national, r6gional et
international difficile,  ce  deuixife programme  axe  mi;: le
lib6ralisme et le d6sengagement de l'Etat a 6t6 mis en place et
de grandes reformes ont 6t& realis&es au niveau des principaux
secteurs de l'4conomie touch6s par le. programme. Los r6formes
courageuses entreprises ont permis d'enregistrer des rfsultats
tr&s encourageants et de relancer 1'activit6 4conomiqu- au
B4nin.
3. Ainsi, le taux de croisdance du PIB qui 6tait de -2,9 % en
1989 est passe a 4,7 % en 1991, 4,10 % en 1992, 3,2 % en. 1993
et 4,5 % en 1994. Ces resultats tr*s encourageants d&coulent
d'une expansion significative de la production de coton (qui
est passe. en qudtre ans de 109.000 A Z77.000 tonnes) et celle
des produits vivriers, d'uns forte reprise de 1'actiriti dans
le  secteur  du  bAtiment  et  des  travaux  publics,  de
l'augmentation  de  la  production  du  secteur  textile,  du
d6veloppement progressif du secteur agro-alimentaire pour la
transformation des produits locaux.
Le secteur tertiaire, lui aussi, facilit& par une meilleure
performance de l'activite commerciale et du tourisme, a connu
une expansion tris encourageante avec le d6veloppenent des
LA.auia :LU, dz aLL:L1VXC6Z* WL ufCWW  cliul du =auwit vmSr
les pays de la sous-region.
Le taux d'inflation a atteint une moyenne de 3 % sur la piriode
1992 et 1993. En 1994 suite & la devaluation du franc CPA, ce
taux mesuri par rapport a la variation au 31 dicembre 1993 et
au 31 d6cL bre 1994 est de 54 %.
4. Les finances publiqu*s se sont consid6rablement am6liomes.
L'execution  du  prograwme  a  permis  de  noter  une  nette
progression des recettes.  Elles  sont en  effet globalement
passees de 49,9 milliards en 1990 a 104,9 milliards en 1994
soit de 9,7 & 12,5 S du PIB.
Cos rdsultats tres appriciables cont dun aux performarne
r6aliszez  par  les   diff6rentes  rigies   financi6rew  dont
1'efficacit& en matidre de recouvrement s'est accrue grfSe & la
mise on place d'uns s6rie de r6forms taut au niveau fiscal
qu'au niveau de la restructuration at de. la dynamisation de
structures de recouvrwment.
Les principales r6formes adopt6es dans le domains fiscal sont
- la mise en place de la taxe sur la valour ajout6e (TVA) ;
- l'installation d'un acompte forfaitaire sur le BIC perqu au
cordon douanier ;



Page 3 of 15
- la simplification de l'imp8t fancier
- la suppression du b&n6f ice minimum fiscal
- la simplification du tarif douanier avec le remplacement des
douze taux de droit fiscal par une structure do cinq taux (0,
5, 10, 15, 20 %) ;
- le remplacement de la taxation base valeur mercuriale par la
valeur en douane ;
- le renforcement du contr8le de la valeur en douane et la
surveillance plus rigoureuse des exon6rations ;
- l'instauration d'un systeme de verif ication des importations
en direction du B&nin ;
- 1 intensification de la lutte contra la fraude
- I'am6lioration des conditions do travail des agents
(4quipements, motivation, etc...).
Au niveau des d6penses, la restructuration op6r6a a 6galement
donne des rdsultats satisfaisants. Ainsi, los d*p*ns*s globaleS
sont passees de 20 t du FIB en 1989 a 17,6 % en 1993 at a 1.9- 
en 1994 sous l'effet de la d6valuation.
Le solde primaire jui represente 1'ezc*dent des rec-ttes sur
les ddpenses de souverainet& est pass-  de -Z % en 1989 A 1, 3 %
en 1992, A 2,2 % en 1993 et a 2,4 % on 1994.
Le d6ficit budg6taire lui aussi a.. ete considerablement r6duit
en passant de -10,7 % du PIB en 1989-, & -8 % en 1992, A -4,7 %
en 1993 et & -6,6 % en 1994.
Les efforts de r6formes entreprises pour atteindre ces
rdsultats encourageants ont mis I'accent sur :
. la reduction de la taille de la fonction publique a travers
la  mise  en  oeuvre  d'un  vigoureux  programme  de  d4parts
volontaires et d'assainissement. LWes6cution de ce programe a
permis de d6gager de la fonction publique prAs de 4.948 agents.
Du fait de co programme de d6parts, du gel des recrutements et
des mises A la retraite normal., lee ef-fectives de la fonction
publique sont tomb&s de 36.900 agents civils A fin 1991 a
33.385 a fin decem re 1993 et A 32.697 A fin d6cembre 1994. La
masse salariale qui repr6sentait pr&s de 82 % des recettes en
1989 a 6t6 ramen4e a 56,1 % en 1992, A 48,5 en 1993 et A 43,3 %
en 1994 ;
* la restructuration des d4ponses publiques.
* la reforme fondamentale des proc6dures et de la comptabili.t&
budg6taire



Page 4 of 15
1 ' am6lioration de la prograzmation et du suivi des dGpenses
d investissoment ;
la reformo en profondeur do 1 ' organisation at de la gestion
de la fonction publiqu*.
L' exdcution de ce programme d- r6formo des finances publiqaes a
egalement permis de r*duire voirs supprizr 1 *taccuulton- des
arri&r6s de paiemlents et do digager des ressourcs pour mottre
en oeuvre un plan de roeboursaumnt desdits arriir6s.
L'execution  de  ce  plan  d'apurement  a  permis  de  r6duire
considerablement 1. stock existant A travers los opirations de
remboursement men6es au profit des agents de 1'Ztat at des
entreprises privez a&fin do leur pezuettre d'attinuer leurs
difficult6s de trisorerie et de rel1ucer leurs activit6s.. Lo
montant global des ressources consacr6as A cotte op6ration dans
le cadre du PAS II sQ&lAve & 25,2 milliards FCFA.
5. La reforme amorc6e dans l secteur des entrepris.s publiques
a permis au Gouvernement de r6duire consid6rablement le
portefeuille de 1'Etat en le d6songageant des secteurs Jug6s
non strat6giques.
La strat6gie adopt&e dans 1e cadre du progr 6. tait basds
sur :
-  la privatisation  ou la  liquidation  d'un certain  nombre
d' entreprises at la restructuration do cellos restant sous le
controle de l'Etat
- 1'amelioration du cadre  institutionnel et juridique dans
lequel  les  entreprises  publiqus.. devaient  exercor  l-urs
activit6 -.
co programue cli a b4n69fio6 de   'ap* i. inanoior et t.,hastua4
de la Banque Mondialo visait A r6duire. ls pertes financi&ros
des  entreprises  publiques  de  mani&z-. &  accroltre  leur
contribution & la croissance 6conomique.
Sur les 120 entreprises . quo acaptait VEtat dens son
portefeuille, il n'en restait plus quo 32 en 1994. Cotte
reduction du portef.uille devra so poudsuivr a dans le cadre du
PAS III pour atteindre l'objectif de 19 ontreprises en 1996.
Au 31 decembre 1994, le bilan do 1'iation deac pc ogri am  de
restructuration  du  portofeuille  da'ntrsprioss  publiques  se
presente comme suit :
. Entreprises naintenues provisoirement dans le portefeuille ;
21
. Entreprises liquid6es
- liquidation claturie : 13
0 liquidation en cours : 19



Page 5 of 15
Privatisations
* privatisations cl8tur6es : 17
* privatisations en cours : 12
Lensemble des operations de privatisation effectu6es de 1991 a
1994 a rapporte au Trisor Public 1-3.980 milliOns. FCGA enfviron.
Sur cette mime periode qui couvre le-PAS II, 17 entreprises ont
et6 enti&rement privatisies at 17 autres ont iti entiArement
liquidues.
6. La r6forme antreprise dans la cadre du systeme bancaire a
permis -d'engager des op6ratvcns de liquidation de toutes les
anciennes banques d'Etat quo sont la Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA), la Banque Commerciale dU B6nin (BCB) et la
Banque  B6ninoise  de  tD&veloppement  (BED)  et  d'autoriser
l'installation de- nouvelles banques. Les banques nouvellement
install}es sont :
- la FINANCIAL BANK
- la BOA-BENIN
- 1' ECOBANK
- la Banque Internationale du B&nin (B313)
- le Credit Lyonnais B&nin (CL-B I I).
S'agissant   des   itablissements   du   cr6dit   nouvellement
installies, ils sont au nombre de deux (02), A savoir
* Cr6dit Promotion B4nin
CrAdit du Benin.
Avec cette restructuration gui est rest6o un iliment important
du programme, la place financi6re de Cotonou a recouvr6 la
confiance des agents 6conomigues ; ce qui a fait accrottre
consid6rablement 1*s dip6ts dont le untant a it. estimi a la
fin du prograsme a plus de 160 milliards de FCFA contre 45,3
milliards en 1990 et favorio6 la rulance des activites de
negoce  international,  le  retour  des  capitaux  placis  a
1'extiriour pendant la periode de crise aigiie et la relance des
investissements prives.
Ces efforts de mobiisation de 1'6p.rgme publique ont it&
6galement &tendus aux reseauz CCP at a-u secteur du cr6dit rural
gui, avec la cr6ation de la Frdiration des Mutuelles Locales de
Cr*dit, a ete r6habilit6.
Los op6 rat ions de liquidation des anocjnnes banques se sot
igalemant poursuivies avec le recouvrement des cr6ances des
banques liquid6es et le remboursement partiLal des d6p8ts gel6s.
Les  recouvrements  des  creances  par  le  Syndic  ont port6
globalement sur un montant de 27.814 millions FCPA. S'agissant
des op6rations de remboursement des d6posants, elles ont
consid6rablement 6volu6es et 1Q montant qui y a ete consacre
s'4live a plus de 26.876 millions PCPA A fin 1994.



Page 6 of 15
Dans  cette  op&ration  de  rmboursement  des  d6posants,  la
participation des bailleurs de fonds tols que l'IDA, la CPD, 1-
FED, 1'Allemagne, la BAD at la Suisse & travers la n6canisme du
Fonds d' Indemnisation et de R6habilitation  (FIR) s' *1Ve &
11.238,5 millions FCPA. Ces op6rations ont permis outre le
remboursement  des  ddposants  priv6s  mais  *6galement  las
organisations    internationales,    leg    gmI)s6des,    las
organisations  non-gouvernementales  (ONG),  les  projets,  les
fournisseurs exterieurs, l'Office B&ninois de S6curit6 Sociale
(OsSS),  la Communaut& Electrique du B6nin  (CEB),  la Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne (CNE) pour la relance de ses activit6s de
collecta de 1'epargne, etc...
7. Les bonnes performances enregistr6es dans le cadre de ce
programme ont facilit& pour le Unin sa participation & doux
Club de Paris conpacr4s a 1'exam.n de la dqte ext*rieure.
Le premier Club de co PAS II a ou lieu le 18 d6cembre 1991. Les
montants annul6s ot r6dchlonn6s so sont 6leves & 47 milliards
FCFA.
Lo deuxi6me Cl1b de ce mame PAS a eu lieu 1e 21 juin 1993 et
l'allgement accord6 a port& sur un montant do 7,5 milliards
FCFA.
Ces   deux   re6ch*lonnements   ont   permis   de   r6duire
considerablement Les engagements ozt6rieurs du B6nin at de
consacrer davantage de ressources budg6taires aus opbrations
internes   liees   au   d6veloppement  du   pays   A   travers
l'accroissement des credits consacrft & 1'irvestissaent public
et  I'apurement  de  la  dette  intdrieure  pour  relancer  la
productior
S. Sur is plan ext6rieur, les efforts- d redressemnt entrepris
a txa'O azo q. WAs  xI onL. parmia  de         o     la 1   ;a.LlJ4la
extdrieure at d'accroitre sensiblenwt lee exportations. qui
repr6sentent a fin 1994 21,3 % du FIB. Les principaux produits
d'exportation sont le coton notamment, l'huile de palms, les
produits   vivriers,   leo   fruits,   le   petrole,   etc...
L'accroissement de leur volume dWexportation ost surtout
iutervonu en 1994 apr&s la d6valuation du franc CPA qui a refldci
1le   produits  locaux  plus  compttitifs  sur  les  march6s
extdrieurs.
9. L'option iconomique choisie par le. Mi  daBs le cadr  de ce
PAS II etant axi sur le liberalisme, . une s&rie do mesures
visant a lib*raliser 1' economie a Ati adopt6e dans le domaine
de 1' exercice du commerce et do la riglanetation des activit6s
et des investissements du secteur priY6.
Ces mesures comprennent surtout
- 1 '6liuination des restrictions quantitatives aux importations



Page 7 of 15
- la reduction du nombre de produits assujettis au contrOle des
prix qui passe de 22 & 5
- la r6vision de la loi sur l'embauche et le travail
- la simplification de la rqglementation rigissant la cxation
et l'immatriculation des entreprises
- 1'ilimination du monopole des entreprises d'Etat sur le
commerce int6rieur
- la suppression des licences d'importation
- l'abolition de la plupart aes taxes & 1'exportation
- l'6limination du monopole de la comuercialisation des
produits agricolYes.
20. Dans  1e  secteur  agricole,  d-asutres  mesures  ant  6t6
egalement  prises  A  travers  entre  autres  ie  Projet  de
Restructuration des Services Agricoles (PRSA) ; ce qui a
permis
. do d6sengager le secteur public des activit*s qui peovent
Otre mieux rentabilis6es par 1e secteur prive ;
d'amdliorer la qualitA des services gouv.rnementauz et los
infrastructures ;
de promouvoir la diversification de la production et des.
exportations ;
, d'assurer la stcuriti alimentaire ;
. d'entreprendre une politique de pr6servation des ressources
naturelles et 1'environnement.
Les progr4s sensibles rialis6s dans le domaine de la filiire
coton no 1' ont 6te qua grice a la restructuration qui y a eti
op4ree dans le secteur. La production cotonni6re gr3ce A ces
mesures de restructuration s'est consid6rablement acs2ue en
passant de 109.000 tonnes en 1990 & 277.000 toranes an 1994. La
production des cultures vivri&res l'est 6galement accrue ; ce
qui a permis de digager des surplus destin6s a l'exportation
vers les pays de la sous-rigion.
11. Danz le domaln. de 1'4ducation, une nouvelle strat6gie a
4t6 formul6e, un audit du ministir. a &th rbalish *t une
r6organisation de c. diparteuent a &t& offectu&e ainsi qu'une
remise en 6tat des infrastructures ; 1'ablectif vis  itant d*
r6duire les maux qui minent notre secteur 6ducatif et de
promouvoir 1'enseignement pour tous leg onfants.



Page 8 of 15
.12. Dans le secteur de la sante, un vt prograe d-  r6fo-ms
a  t Ianc  avc l aLde do I ' IDA et. d  la Suisse. La mise  on
oeuvre de ces rformes a parmia de rumettre en 6tat des
infrastructures Gd base et de disposer 4-d ne structure.
d' approvis iononent et de distribtio   de   dicamentsen no
g6n6riques dan  1. dtablissoments de  ant. 1 ' objectif vis
est d'accroltro  l' accessibilit6  des populations -. laibl*
revenus aux soins primaires.
13. Au niveau du secteur transport, la table ronde organis  en
1993 a permis de d6finir une stratdie -dont la mine en oeuvre
se poursuit progressivment avec la participation financi*re d.
certains partenaires au d6v.loppement.
14. La r6ussite -de  ce prograe  ne pouz- so faire sans  la
r&duction de la pauvret6 et dos ingalitag sociales. Ainsi, un
valet sp6cial concernant la dnsion social. de d6vxloppemnt
a 6t& introduit dans 1- progranme. Co pgranM  coMporate Me
strategi   global. de  lutte  contre  la  pauvret  avec  la
participation de diverses couches 4d la population et cel-l do
la communaut& des bailleurs de fonds.
A travers ce pogra, divers.s  mnwues ant dt& mines en place
pour venir en aide auz personnes ayat. quittd la fonction a
titre du programme de d6parts volontai>re.
un prograe  de travaux urbains A hante intensitd  de main
d ' oeuvre (THInO) a &t& lancd Ann le cadre du proj*t do
r6habilitation et de gestion urbaines. Un autre programe a 6t6
6galement lanc& dam  le cadre du soutien aux FM et aux micro-
projets avec le financemnt de la Sanque Nondiale.
Un programme de rdbilitation a 6t& 4galetent entrepris en ve
do rerettre en 6tat, 1.s infratrtures social.. de buss   IS
les 6coles primaires, les centres de sant&, Io piston rurales
at, l b  In*raftr*utuzw  .no Fipa^  eo.:ts
urbains.
25. L'Wex6cution de ce PAS II a pers  de. mobilir aupks des
diftGrents partenaires au d6volopp_ent. t dans le cadre du
financement des prIncipaux volets du pzogram.. la snom  de
84.307,6 milliads FCFA rpartie co su it:
- Ponds Mon6taire international       17.161   million  IFCA
- Banque Nondiale                     20.223,7 af2millions  A
-BAD                                   9.SI8,6 million  F
-CEE                                  122imillion  10
- Frances                              *.00,5 millions 
- Allemagne        ..69-3  millions WdA
-usA                                   4.Z0    m Millions ICF.
- Suisse                              .41;24,8 millis 
- Hollande                             2.063   milliozs PCA
- JaponI.7Zi  millions IC?A



page 9 of 15
-Ls principaux volets financ&s pr ces.nt 6t6
notamntmn
."1l razbour.emont des d6p8ts gel&Sdais le caue. -du n6taniSM
du Ponds d' Indemnzation et e    abiittion (M) 
. los arrir6s .it6rieurs multilatdra  ,
* e, programme d' urgence ;
. les arri&r&s int6rieurs non salariax;
* 1e programme de r6insertiou. As dipl8b6w sans ezploi;
le programme de diparts volontaires de la foction publiqu.;
* la r6duction duid&couvert BCIAO;
* l'appui & l'nseignement primaire,. etc...



Page 10 of 15
CONCLUSION
16. L'ex*cution  de co programme  d.'ajustement structur.l  a
permis sans nul doute au B4nin d' amorcer 1s redressement.de son
6conomie A travers cette  pol itique, :. assaiz ispement at de
restructuration ainsi que 1' adoption d ' tme S6rie d;e r6f6ru 8s -
structurelles necessaires pour assecir Is d6veloppement
economique.
Que I 'quilibre des grands agr6gats vacroiconomi",s soit
atteint, que la croissance 6conomiqua soit retrouv6e avec un
taux moyen de 4 % par an sup&rieur x    calui de la croissance
d6mographique, quo la restructuration opWer dans la domaine du
secteur public ait permis de. relancer leas actvit6s de
certaines entreprises publiques sous la gstion des op4rateurs
prives, qua la confiance renaisse dans Q loecteur bancaire avec
1  installation de nouvelles institutions et que de profrondes
r6formes d'ordre structural soient mises an oeuvre au nivsau de
certains grands secteurs, le Benin avec ce PAS II qui vient de
s'achever, possede malgr6 sa fragilitf 6conomique 6vidente, des
atouts qui lui permettent aujourd'hui, avac la divaluation
intervenue a la fin du programme, de relancer sa production
locale et de retrouvor sa place au sein de 1ensamble do la
zone 6conomique  sous-r4gionale   de laquelle il ne pout so
soustraire.
17. Ce programme d'ajustement structurel possAde malgri sea
atouts, des insuffisances dont quolques-unes sont de nature A
remettre  totalement  en  cause,  toute-  leas  realisations
effectuees au prix de lourds sacrifices par la population.
Dans  son  execution,  il  comports  des difficalt6s  majeures
notamment au niveau des conditionnalit6s dont la formulation
prete non seulement A confusion mis dbnt 1' inexzcution due
surtout aux difficult6s rencontries par lea autorita. face &
l'opinion publique, est parfois de nature A entralner le non
doblocage  des  ressources  n6ceosaires  au  financeuent  du
programme ou & 1 'arrOt total do son ex6cution global..
Le programme dans sa conception a 4gal amnt non soul-ant
ignor6 certains volets  comme  celui de 1 emploi, A savoir
l' insertion des sans emploi dans le* secteurs de production,.
mais il a contribue a son aggravation & travers ladoption de
cartaines mesures sp6cifiques li&es & l'assainissement des
finances publiques comma :
- 2'arr6t des recrutements a la fonction. publique
- la restructuration des entreprises publiqus,
- la r4duction des .ffectifs de la fonction publique A' travers-
le programme de d6parts volontaires bio qua I ' objectif de
depart de ce volet de r6duction des  ffectifs soit d'orienter
les groupes cibles concern16  vers les sateours de relance de
1  activit6 6conomique.



Page 11 of 15
18. Alnsi, en conclusion, nous retiendrons quo la mim  en
oeuvre de co programme malgr6 sea insuffisances a perxis aux
autorit6s sur cette periode de quatre ans:
- d'assainir 1'4conomie b6ninoise ;
- de renouer avec la croissance;
- de r6tablir les grands 6quilibres macro6conomiques au niveau
des finances publiques a travers 1' accro iuaement des recettes,
la maltrize des d6penses, le d6gagmeint d'un solde primaire
positif, 1 'apurement des arri6r6s int6rieurs et la r6diuction du
deficit budgftaire;        - -
- de restructurer le systeme bancaire   et de relancer la
mobilization do 1'6pargne ;
-  de  restructurer  les entreprises  publiques & travers  la
r6duction du portefeuill* de l'Etat ;
- et d'entamer des reformes d' ordre structurel au niveau das
sectours  comma. 1'agriculture,  le  transport,   la  sant6,
1'&ducation, etc...



Page 12 of 15
*.0 Ira. 02',0J2,040,046, 56,06&,072.
TASrAU 2S                             twTzm  ou PI MA   Mim4
Ala MX     t~N7
13-Jjn-95              1991     3992    1593'   19_49&   2363    16.           6 
vC"                          *,469.2  1 5.3  166.0  21460.6 27481.0  3024664 3u- m.s 3077.7
*ANIPALg                      50L74.4  S1219.3  s5,-.   70. 9 1. 663A  100774.6  0s97.s
SUEUrr  PRINURE              19443.6 209*4.6 2a253.6 29014.4 36602.   677.0  457.0   47466.6.
TWO.EX7RACTMS                  44122.0   3397.6   3721.2   656.2   8A.8    9.    V=n.6  22710.
?NO.A LMPOTAIRE               24295.5  2506.8.  23477.9  30L1   4 .8    7.0    3612.7   57.6
J7SSn INDL%RIMS              12.s  13027.2  1*6.27  27129.0  336".0 'f0M.0    _2.   .se.e.s
aE4IE                          4291.9   5013.)   5311.4   605.3    64.1   7666.    S.21    A65.
B T P                         17619.3  159295.1  2126.2  3759.7   410.s  ;S56.5  146.5$  6615.4
SECT(UftUR SgCAIRE            67149.3  72680.0  "77a.4  114751.  143V70.6 257674?  1721.5  193O2.7
comt;;                         9061.2  f5M.3  103563.7 1AO1J.S  X17016.6  25U3.0  2614.5 398768.2
D t I                         25173.0  27133.1  2969.4  42307.4  .63.7  1338.   986.9  60063
TRA,SPCRTS                    41202.0   "US9.7  47841.2  7032T.6  38891.6  AM.4  9766.5  I061.4
SEcftV .MAROZ E3621.2  07971.5  7268.4  93662   091.'. 33*37.S5  11766.6 124414.8
SEAV. . KARCMANS 450500.2  52780.2  55106.2  72384.4  7976.5  79742.5  79701.4  7962.1
SrCTEUR rEErTIAI             270iS7.S 288374. 1 3000.9  44754.S 5334.6  57765.7 66810.9 7W2462.0
TOT^L P I a                  535750.5 570644.7  601745.Z 05205.8 10017.5 11t.S.3 12542.3 329Y.0
P1B NO" AGkICLt              337306.9 386o0. 1 364.3  562336.4 677155.4  7545"0.#1254A5.s 91148.5
PIP. MAFwO                   '852S0.3 5S001.5  54689. 7 780121.4 91239.0 106344.6 U1?17.9 131392.9
sTIUCrL1iI DU P!S AUX PUX CXURA
(an 's)
L3..n-9$               19:1    1992    1913    _99488   196568    16W6    :.n67    1866"
n weVFGsTrLfi                   27.7      n7.a     26.9     25.2      26.3    2A.5      29.5      20.4
PAW.AMIMALI                      9.4       9.0      5.9      a.9       *.7      6.3       0.0      7.3
SECTSJUR N1WAIR                  37.0     36.8     35.6     3A.0      35.0     3A.8      34.6     3.0
im0.EX:RACtvE5                  0.5      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.9      0.6
INO.A LIV*TAIPES                 4.5        .?7     47       4.l       4.)      4.2      4.2      4.1
AUTFtES IMIRLa                   3.9       3.2      3.1      3.2       3.Z      3.2       *.2      3.3
p4101                           0o9       0.9       0.9      0.7       0.0      0.r      0.7       0.6
a r P                            3.3      3.4       3.5      4.4       4.8      4.8       4.9      4.V
SCCTImT 5EW1ARG                  12.5     12.7     12.9     13.5       17.     'M 13.8  .6        13.9
'om"Efm                          19.6    16.6     17.2    15.6       20.&     22.1      23.5     25.2
0 7 I                            4.5      4.6       4.9      5.0       1.6      4.7      4.7       4.7
TPARSAst7S                       7.7      7?.       8.0      6.2     *C1        7.1      7.3       7.,
SERtV.MARCAf                    11.9      11.9     1.2.1    11.0      10.1      9.7      9.4       6.6
SERftV.H MAFIAI                  9.4       9.2      9.2      8.5       7.?      7.0      6.3       6.7
SECTEUA t?3&IRE                  50.4     50.5     51.4      52.9     51.2     52.4  *1.7         52.2
TOTAL P I S                     100.0    10.0    200.0    100.0    I0.&    28.0    180.0    100.0
PI$ m  AMIAS                    3.0      63.3     14.2    6S60       66.0      5.2      W$.5     66.0
PIS MAMtC2IS. 90.6                        98.5     90.8     91.5      92.2    96.6       93.7     94.3
Sourc-: tNS".C.Wt_s nmtiraus
*4stimt$e, PtVlli



Page 13 of 15
oo.O16.0Z,a3z 0d0.046.05f4.064.072.
TAO8LS4  27                            CWTXOI Ou Pit PAR 90Mixal
^UJ PRIX CONSTNTS DE 1991
(an mi 1  ion P. CFA)
13-Jur-95                         1991      1892     19030   1904..  1s95w--   19906a     1997s--   199966w
P. VIE7AL3                    148M69.2  1.54304.4  157173.9  174148.7  187384.0  202374.7  218564.7  236049.9
PRS.AMIKA.L                    50174.4   50325.7  51944.2  55-2-.5  57364.3  50372.1  61450.1  63600.9
SECTEUR PftP*                 196441.6  mz20 0.5  209116.1 229573.2  2. 7S.3 2U.748.f 280014.8 290S50.7
INO.GXORACTIVES                *422.0   3 O-95    405O.    3410.6   3707.7   4010.6   4630.2   S365.9
ING.AtlM8fTAZRI                24295.5  26552.3  27519.7  27474.5  269J7?.   30818.9  32538.2  347SZ.
AJRES INDUISNRSE               lS30.S  18147.5   18247.8  1S953.2  21330.5  22764.0  245U6.5  25 99.1
E?16P61                         4901.9   5563.5   6030.2   6160.9   6551.8   8W79.4   7223.3   7584.5
:  T P                         17619.3  1I795.8  20111.5  20916.0  23007.6  2'368.0  25851.3  27660.9
S6CEtIUJ SECOM.aZME           G8149.3  72688.6  75954.2  76235.A  83545.3   a8t9. 9   94587.6  101873.1
capwr"Cx                       89061.2  93342.1  98009.2  9"960.4  1061t7.2  115524.6  12478a.6  134747.9
0 7 1                          25573.0  268a0.6  26403.A  2.370.1  23507.1  Z51S2.8  27164.8  29338.0
T7AuSP1rS                      41202.0  43173.4  '5322.1  '7590.7  S04S5.6  52977.3  556*8.2  58407.5
SEft..MA  ANA                  53821.2  66387.4  69624.8 ,_,M74A. S   7M95.3  77159.8  79798.9  02297.5
SiwV.M.M*RO403                 50f00.2  4*790-A   458J1.5   53199.3  5585!.3  S20C-2  52599.3  51047.2
sCcr(iu  rERrz^IRE            270157.5  275$53.9 2C421.0  294012.0  311378.5  325014.5  336SSS.a 3S603.1
TOTAL .P I U                  535750.5  557563.0  575493.3  601720.5  639072.1  674681.2  714558.2  757552.0
PIS MN A6RIXOIA               337306.9  352242.5 .3S375.2 331s47.4  394923.8  4L37.-4  34543.-  457911.3
P13 *MlCAD                    4*85Z50.3  567772.8  S26331.9  54521.3  58820.6  62121O  66195d 9 70651-.8
?ArALD Of =IMANCE DU PI9
AUX PRIX COOSTAHTS OC 1991
- '            ~~~~( an S)
U-Jun-IS                         1991      1992    1293.   1994.  l99.s-   &39ff.*   lC97'.'   1998'v-
;D.'SGETALE                                  4.1       1.       10.8      7.6       8.0       6.0       6.0
PROO.ANIPULE                                 1.5       2.0      6.7       3.5       1.5       3.5       3.5
SECTut PR     tE                             3.S       1.8      9.S       8.6       6.9       r.0       7.0
t?O.CT1RCTrVEU                             -l8.6     .2.1    -10.7        2.7       6.4      15.2      15.9
MN.ALMOTIES                                 9.3       3.6     -0.2       5.-       5.J       3.3       6.8
AiJTO 1ta,TFUtg                             1.6       0.6       9.3      6.9       6.0       6.9       S.a
iC1GE                                       12.1       6.0      2.5       6.0       5.0       5.0       3.0
S T P                                        6.7       7.0      '.0      10.0       6.0       6.0       7.0
SECTrJR S#CURQtE                             8.2       4.5      2.9       L.9       6.2       6.6       7.7
COMERM                                       A4.8      5.0      2.0       7.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
9 T 1                                        5.2       6.0    -25.0      1C.0       7.0       8.C       8.0
TPANS S               .                      *.8       5.0       5.0      6.0       5.0       5.0       S.0
ERY.MARC4AIM                                 4.0       *.9       3.2      3.1       3.&       3.4       3.4
SERV.m-m rXWAmO8                            -1.4     -1.7       8.7       5.l    -3.0        -3.0     -3.0
SC7tUR TEMTA16S                              3.5       3.9       1.2      5.9       4.4       6.6       4.7
TOTAL P r *                                  4.1       3.2      4.6       6.1       5.6       5.8       *.o
PIS Ron FCRZDt.                              4.4       4.0       1.8      9.1       4.8       S.0       5.4
PIS MWMAND                                   4.6       9.7       4.2      S.4       6.4       S6        *.7
Sourco: INS&E.CnaPts natlwwwx                                                                47.5
*Isett..oqw .PrivlsloAs                                                                      65.0



Page 14 of 15
xa03 X.01002 . 03Z ,040 , 048J.O05, 064. 072 .
TA9A.WU 2a                           0EFLATEUPS 0U P18
(on S)
13'Juft95                       1991      192    193-   199440   LOSUS   19W*a   1997-3s  199su
~.VF>.TU4.E                  1.7       2.7      0.3      19.t     Ila     - 2.0       2.0      2.0
.AMIMALF                         0.2       0.5      2.0      32.8     15.7      2.0       2.0      2Z0.
S370.2  UMAING                    1.2      2.2      0.?      22.8      w a      1.        1.9      2.9
LW0.jXTPACTXvfi3               -12.9    -*.s       -2.3     9.6       24.0      2.0       1 1      1.3
INO.ALIrIfTAIMM                  0.2       1.3      2.2     29.9      15.5      2.2      2.1       1.8
AurREs IPOSTR1E5                 2.8      -0.7      2.6      35.8     1-4.1     2.7       3.0      3.6
4EN"IE                          -iS.9    -10.1    -2.0       11.3      3.6     10.0       2.0      2.0
a T P                            2.8       2.7      3.0      70.0     20.0      3.0       5.0      4.0
S(CTCUft 5(30,QAXR-0.6                    -0.1      2.0       4.2     16.7      3.7       3.4      3s1
CDMKCFCE                          &.2      2.6      3.0      50.0     20.0      0.0       8.0     10.0
o r 1                            3.1       1.2      3.0      90.0      '.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
TMfSPORTS                         1.1      3.S      2.0      40.0     12.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
SgRV.JaR04A'                     3.0       2.4      2.2      24.3      0.3      2.3       2.3      2.3
5LCVNAY.AN0                      2.2       6.0      6.2      20.9      5.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
s9CT;uR TrRTIAZRE                3.0       3.2      3.2    <43.0      12.6      S.S       5.7      6.8
I1^t. p L a                      1.8       2.4      2.1     35.5      15.0      3.9      4.0       4.5
va18v40M r  'ELE                 Z.2       2.5      2.9     *3.2      13dS      S.S       5.Z      6.0
P15 PWl1A0                         a8      2.0      1.6      37.0     35i9      3.9      3.S       4.5
I3-JuS5                              07a)TRIgJUI0 A 'A C1SOI55:
(an 1)
1992    1993-    954"w  lg995u-   1906".  19978- 3    ssa19
O.YWE9TALS                                 1_1      0.5      2.2       2.2      2.3      2.4       2.4
P.AH1AMLI                                  0.1      0.2      0.6       0_3      -.3      0.3       0.3
ECTElUR PRZllRe                            1.3      0.7      3.6       2.5      2.7      2.7       2.?
tN0 x[TR*CTIves                           -0.2      0.1     -0.1       C.0      0.0      0.1       0.1
IND.A4.D4WTAIRM                           0.4       0.2      0.0       0.2      0.3      0.3       0.3
AUTRhES IIOAT1IES                          0.'      0.0       0.3      o.2      0.2       0.2      0.3
FMEMIw                                   o0.1       0.,      0.0       0.1      O.l      o.l       0.1
a r p                                      0.2      0.2      0.1       a.3      0.2      0.2       0.3
SECTEA S(COPiARE                           1.0      0.6      0.4       0.9      8.8      0.9       1. 0
RDP"RCE                                    n0.8     0.8      0.3       1.2      1.3       1.4      1.4
O   t                                     0.2      0.3      -L.2      0_.      0.3      0_3       0.3
mAHOPOT3                                   0.4      0.4      0.4       0.5      G.4      0.4       0.4
ERY.MAROW".                                0.5      0.6      0.4       0.5      0.4      0.4       0.4
SERV.N.?I*ROIAM                          -0.1      -0.1      0.7       0.4    -0.3      -0.2      -0.2
SICTIR TENtTIARE                           1.8      1.9      0.6       2.9      2.1      2.2       2.3
O^IL P I S                                '.1       3.2      4.6       6.3      5.6      5.8       6.0
Pie NCo A6R1IaL                            2.6      2.5       1.0      3.8      2.9      1.1       3.3
P18 MA1ACtS *.2                                     3.4      3.8       5.5      St       6.0       8.2
_  ___  _  __  _ 



Page 15 of 15
TABLEAU DES OPERTIONS F1NANCIEFRS OEF L'ETAT
i9s - 1994
BENIN
_________________________________  1989  l19O   19gt       1ow        1Sm        1994
R*c tt_                              44,9       49,9       61,5      .648        77.7       104,9
Fiscales                           3.,4       3s,e       47~2   S    7.4       e9         o1,1
Non Flles                          1Ms5       10Q3       14,3        1Z4       11.6       t:,8
Dap.nmm Totalm                       96.0      100.1       100.3      15,2       106t       tS.G
0eponees Pimaaic                   54.5       54.3       58,8         A-       64.7       99s
Salaks. Pwnionas.8aursa           44,1       43.4        45,5       4.2        465        56.1
AuUus 06pen..s at Trunn.           9.0        11.9       11,7       179        1S2        2S,
ConMUttibn Budgifirwnest           1_ 0              F-- 615                    .D         ,
Saida Primair.                       -9.6       -6.4        2.7        7.2       13,0       18,4
Intiawts                             1S.0       15.3       13,9       20.8       15.9       26,2
lStte Intsr1ure                   wza         4.7        5,2        46,8  --4,M           3,7.
Det?. Extour                       122       106        8.7        16Q        11,3       225
Oipensom d'Imvactmant                24,5       21.0       2e         26         2ss        4,.
dot PTgrIman  d'Urgnce            2.0        2.S        1,0        10,4       1,7        4.1
04l1cit GI*b&J (Ba3. ng.gemwrt2    -51,0      -50.1      -38.7       45,      -2114      -57,7
Valtatlon d  Arrl*r4                 -13.7      -2.2       -3.S8         .4      -0.2       - 10.6
- IntsritOote xrinure                -14.1       S.5        -*9
Arfrnt snieurs                     0.4       -7.7        1,1        "4         -8.2      -10.6
0cit CRobol (BasE  Oaison)          -64.7      -52.4      -42B6       -61,8     -36,6      -6,3
Fln.oenm                             64.7       52.5       42,8      5s,J        38.7       68.3
tnt6rimjr                         -2,7        3.4        -7.9       6.7       -5,9       -14,4
EDadr.                           -456        4,3       -6.8        -1,8       -Z4       -1C.8
Non eYncr                         2.3       -0,2        -CL4       1,4        - 1,5
Venes dA'fls                                 3.4        3,9        8.3        0,6
RUihabitt? n %Sst Bancsirc       -Q4        -4.1        -4.6      -1.4       -26        -31
Ext rlr                           67.4       49,0       SOS         45.1      42.5       12.0
Dons - Projai                    297        12.0        8.         9,4       1t,4       21.5
Prift -Projea                    11,4        140        17.6       *ZO        13,3      24.3
AmoMstbnwn du                    -3D2       -11,1      -O.5       -.sQ       -11.1      -I
Vaaon AntdAri. sn Prldpl         -9,4        2.1       -9,4                   ,6        -3.2
AsutotanceEm6fi.ure               .5        26t         *0186      161        2D.4       3
AJ1lgrtmnt Do Obt>wu             994         5.9        26,2       34.5       7,9       23,7
Autrm                                                                                    6,9
Be.in de Financ..nt                                                                         -0,7



IMAGING
Report No:       15061
Type: ICR



