Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2283 BEN
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated August 10, 1994
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2283 BEN
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and of the Minister in the financing of the 
urgently needed imports required under the Grantee's program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Grantee's economy (the 
Program) referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement No. 2283 BEN 
dated July 12, 1991, between the Grantee and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
amount of five million Dutch guilders (f.5,000,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist the 
Grantee in carrying out the Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an amendment, dated March 17, 1994, of the Schedule to the 
Arrangements, dated December 11, 1986, between the Minister, the International Bank 
Page  2
for Reconstruction and Develop-ment and the Association (the Arrangements), the 
Minister has requested the Association, and the Association has accepted, to 
administer, inter alia, the Dutch Grant in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arrangements; and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assis-tance extended to the 
Grantee under this Dutch Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-ment Credit 
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arran-gements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant Account, the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execu-tion of the Project 
referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement, and the accomplish-ment of 
the 
purposes of the Dutch Grant"; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of five million Dutch 
guilders (f.5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be with-drawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods required for the Program and made 
after the date of the Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-wise agree, contracts 
Page  3
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and 
effect as if it were fully set forth herein, it being understood that the references 
in said Schedule to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expendi-tures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant and the Administrator may, without in any way restri-cting 
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Ad-ministrator under this 
Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasona-ble opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said Articles III and IV to "the Association" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement and all 
references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower shall be the 
representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Le Ministère des Finances
B.P. 963
Cotonou, Bénin
Facsimile:
Telex:
   30-18-51
      5009
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Facsimile:
197688 (TRT)
Page  4
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality required on the part of any party and, from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-ment to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Pierre Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
