Page  1
CONFORMED COPY                          
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2023 BEN
Development Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
Dated January 2, 1990
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2023 BEN
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 2, 1990, between the PEOPLE'S EPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of a Grant provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY 
(Norway).
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and of Norway in the financing of the 
imports needed during the execution of the program of actions described in the Letter 
of Development Policy, dated March 7, 1989, referred to in recital A of the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated May 26, 1989, between the Recipient and the 
Association (the IDA Credit Agreement);
(B)
in consideration of the above-mentioned request, Norway has opened a 
trust account (the Trust Account) and deposited therein an amount of twenty million 
Norwegian Kroner (NOK 20,000,000) (the Norwegian Grant) and has, pursuant to an 
Agreement, dated December 22, 1989 (the Administration Agreement), appointed the 
Association as Administrator of said Trust Account for the purpose of providing 
assistance to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore mentioned, has agreed 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Norwegian Grant to the 
Recipient upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the same force and effect as if 
they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Norwegian 
Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Norwegian Grant hereunder;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement, means the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited;
(e)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"Project means the imports and other activities that may be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 
1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement";
(f)
Section 9.06, paragraph (c), shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the  execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant 
Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Norwegian Grant.";
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted; and
(h)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development Association acting in 
its own capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty million 
Norwegian Kroner (NOK 20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to the IDA Credit 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement among the 
parties, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant.
(b)
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Norwegian Grant have been paid or are payable, or at the option of the Administrator, 
in Norwegian Kroner.
(c)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in CFAF a special account in the Cotonou branch of the Central Bank for West African 
Countries on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the IDA Credit Agreement, said provisions being hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully 
Page  3
set forth herein; it being understood that the amount of the Authorized Allocation 
shall be deemed to be the equivalent of two million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 2,000,000).
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Norwegian Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Articles III 
and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway under this 
Agreement; all references to the "Development Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to be 
references to this Development Grant Agreement, and all references to the "Credit" 
shall be deemed to be references to the Norwegian Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. The date thirty (30) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.04. The representative designated in Section 6.01 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.06. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the IDA Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Norway. 
The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if Norway had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Page  4
By /s/ Theophile Nate
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
