RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                 Report No. P-757
This report wos prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizoaIons.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INT1RNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
FALCONBRIDGE DOMINICANA C. por A.
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
November 26, 1969



INTERNATION4AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A4ND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO FALCONBRIDGE DONINICANA C. por A. IN
THE DOMI4ICAN REPUBLIC
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to $25 million to Falconbridge Domi-
nicana C. por A. (Falcondo).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.         The proposed loan would be the first financing provided by the
World Bank Group to the Dominican Republic. In view of its balance of
payments weakness, discussed in Part V and an annex to this Report, the
Dominican Republic is not regarded at present as eligible for Ban: loans,
except for an enclave project such as now being recorivended.  Three IDA
credits are currently under study for irrigation, education and livestock
projects.
3.         The Bank was approached by Falconbridge Nickel Nines Limited,
Ontario, Canada (Falconbridge), in January 1957 to contribute to the
financing of a nickel mining and smelting project to be carried out by
its subsidiary in the Dominican Republic (Falcondo). The Barik subse-
quently indicated it would be prepared to consider a loan of up to $25 mil-
lion for the power plant and related facilities provided Falconbridge, and
now also Armco Steel Corporation, Ohio, who acquired shares in Falcondo
(hereinafter called the sponsors), guaranteed the loan or undertook a sat-
isfactory "ta-ke or pay" obli-ation tantamount thereto, and arranged a
suitable combination of equity and loan financing for the remaining $170 mil-
lion estimated cost of the project. After both these undertakin:ps had been
worked out in principle, Bank/IFC appraisal missions visited the Dominican
Republic in late July 196d and Canada in late February 1369, and negotiations
took place in Washington on November 6 - o". Representatives of the sponsors
and of the Borrower were led by 14r. E. L. Healy, Vice-President of Falcon-
bridge Canada, and Representatives of the Dominican Republic by Lic. Juan
Velasquez, Legal Counsel of the Central Bank.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
14..       Borrower:                   Falconbridge Dominicana C. por A.
Guarantor:                  The Dominican Republic.
Amount:                     In various currencies equivalent
to US$25 million.
Purpose:                    To finance the foreign exchange
cost of construction of a thermal
power generating plant and asso-
ciated facilities in connection with
a ferronickel project, as well as
the capitalization of part of the
interest during construction.
Amortization:               In 15 years, including a 3-1/2 year
period of grace, through equal semi-
annual installments of principal
starting December 15, 1973, and
ending December 15, 1984.
Interest Rate:              7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:          3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
5.         A report entitled "Appraisal of the Falconbridge Nickel Project -
Dominican Republic" (LA-5) is attached.
6.         Under a concession granted in 1956, some terms of which have been
recently renegotiated and which now extends for an unlimited time, Falcondo
would mine nickel ore, process it into ferronickel and sell the product to
Falconbridge for resale in the worldmarket.'alcondo is entering into manage-
ment and sales agreements with Falconbridge. After deducting sales costs and
commissions, the latter will transfer net sales payments to a New York trustee
who will represent the interests of the lenders, sponsors, Falcondo and the
Central Bank of the Dominican Republic.
7.         Of the total cost of the project, estimated at $195 million,
$49 million (or 25.2 percent) would be financed by the sponsors with equity
and subordinated debt; $80 million (or 41.0 percent) by three United States
insurance companies on a long-term basis; $41 million (or 21.0 percent) by
two commercial banks (one United States and one Canadian) on a medium-term
basis, and $25 million (or 12.8 percent) by the IBRD loan. Interim financing



- 3 -
would also be provided by the commercial banks to establish revolving
credits up to $55 million. All loans other than the Bank's would be
made to Loma Corporation, a Delaware corporation set up by the sponsors
to act as a channel for this borrowing; these loans will be covered by
a U.S. AID guarantee, which has already been given, against specific
risks such as war, revolution, expropriation and inconvertibility.
8.         The project focuses on one of the basic economic problems of
the Dominican Republic -- the need to develop its natural resources and
increase exports. The market for ferronickel has been growing steadily
and the prospective demand is strong in relation to the prospective supply,
although substantial increases are anticipated in world production of
ferronickel. Construction of the project represents an important part
of investment in the Dominican Republic over the next three years, when
employment of local labor and materials will provide a net contribution
of $32 million to the country's foreign exchange receipts. Thereafter,
when the project becomes operational, net earnings in foreign exchange
are expected to rise from $10 million in the first full year of operation
to $21 million by 1991. Increases compare with average export earnings
of $152 million a year during 1966-68.
9.         The project consists of the construction and operation of all
of the facilities needed for the mining and metallurgical processing of
lateritic ore for the industrial production of ferronickel. The estimated
cost of the project, in millions of dollars, consists of:
Processing plant and mining facilities          114.9
Thermal unit and associated facilities           28.1
Preproduction expenses                           17.3
Financial charges                                24.3
Working capital                                  10.4
Total                                195.0
The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the thermal
power generating unit and associated facilities, estimated to total
$24 million, and a portion of the interest and other charges during
construction.
10.        The Bank's usual international bidding procedures will apply
to all procurement financed out of the proceeds of the loan. As noted in
the Monthly Operational Summary, Falcondo has already placed contracts
for boilers, turbines and general construction after Bank review of bid
evaluations. Expenditures made after April 1, 1969 and prior to the
signing of the loan, including up to $1 million for engineering services
as well as up to $0.5 million for equipment, would be eligible for
reimbursement. By proceeding, prior to the completion of the financial
arrangements, with consulting services and placing contracts for equipment
for the power facilities, which require the longest period of construction,
Falcondo will have avoided costly delays on the overall project.



- 4 -
11.        The financial forecast for the project, based on conservative
selling price and production cost estimates, indicates that the flow of
funds in the form of profits and depreciation allowances would be
sufficient to recover the total capital cost of the project in 7½i years.
The discounted present value of the return on investment is around 17
percent.
12.        The sponsors are entering into a Sales Agreement with
Falcondo by which they undertake among other things that, whenever
Falcondo is either not producing or Falconbridge is unable to sell
sufficient nickel to generate funds for Falcondo to meet its obligations,
Falconbridge (60 %) and ARMCO (40%) will prepay future deliveries so
as to furnish Falcondo with sufficient cash for its debt service
obligations.  The lenders, including the Bank, will have the right to
enforce these obligations of the sponsors. As additional security for
performance, the sponsors have pledged their shares in Falcondo for the
benefit of the lenders, including the Bank.
13.        By virtue of a force majeure clause in the Sales Agreement,
the sponsors would be released from their obligation to prepay for
future deliveries in the event that they are deprived of benefits
under the project because of the occurrence of one or more events
which may be characterize4 as "political" risks. More specifically,
if any of the events listed below occurs for longer than specified
periods, the sponsors obligation would be suspended and subsequently
terminated. These events are: (i) compulsory deprivation of the
sponsors of fundamental rights as shareholders which prevents them
(either directly or as the consequence of their loss of effective
management control over Falcondo) from realizing any further sub-
stantial benefits from the project or (ii) the impossibility to
construct or operate the project because of war (including revolution
or insurrection) or because of any acts of Dominican authorities,
which were unprovoked and against which available local remedies were
exhausted. I consider it appropriate that the Bank, as an inter-
national development institution, should accept the risks arising
from this force majeure provision in order to help assure the
financing needed for such an important project. A similar arrangement
was included in previous loans of the same general character, the
lateyt examples of which are 480-COB (Potash Project) and 557-GUI
(Boke Project). Asacounterpart of the force majeure clause in the
Sales Agreement, Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee Agreement contains
a commitment of the Government not to take any actions which, under
the force majeure clause of the Sales Agreement would suspend or
terminate the sponsors' obligations to make advanced payments for
IERD debt service, unless the loan were repaid or alternative
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank worked out.



- 5 -
14.         An agreement has been reached between the sponsors and the
Dominican Republic whereby the Government will charge a fee of 1.5 percent
per annum for its guarantee of the Bank loan. With the Bank's present
interest rate the total cost of the Bank funds to the Borrower would thus
be 8.5 percent, the same rate as has been negotiated for the insurance
companies' loans.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Falcondo, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Government and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
16.        The draft Loan Agreement in general follows the normal pattern
of agreements for loans to private industrial enterprises. The following
provisions are of special interest:
(i) As a condition of effectiveness, Falcondo shall execute
a first mortgage and assign various other rights as
security for the loan pari passu with the other senior
debts   (Section 7.02 (e).
(ii) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Falcondo has
undertaken not to incur any additional indebtedness or
to execute any other project or development other than
as permitted in the draft Loan Agreement (Sections 5.10(b)
and (c)).
(iii) Without the prior approval of the Bank the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action which would materially
or adversely affect the Bank or the project and would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving any provision of any of the various agreements
involved in the transaction. Such an action or any
other action or failure to act under any of the said
agreements which materially or adversely affects the
Bank or the project would constitute a default under
the Bank Loan if it should continue for a period of
60 days after the Bank had given notice of the default
to Falcondo and the Government (Sections 5.03 and
6.02 (a)).



-6-
The draft Guarantee Agreement follows the normal pattern of the
Bank Guarantee Agreements for loans to private borrowers. The only pro-
vision of special interest has already been mentioned (see paragraph 13).
18.        The Trust Agreement is to be executed by the Bank, the Central
Bank of the Dominican Republic, Falcondo, Loma Corporation and First National
City Bank. It provides the mechanism through which the proceeds from the
sales of the ferronickel production of Falcondo will be divided into various
streams and allocated to accounts for the servicing of Falcondo's debts as
well as to separate accounts, in foreign and Dominican currency, to be
applied to reserves, working capital and dividends.
19.        The Completion Agreement is to be executed by the Bank, the
sponsors, Lona Corporation and each of the institutional lenders. Under
this Agreement the sponsors undertake to complete the project prior to
January 1, 1974, providing, if necessary, all additional construction funds
needed for completion. In case completion is not feasible or the sponsors
decided to abandon the project the sponsors undertake to repay pro rata the
unpaid balance of the Bank's loan. The institutional lenders have agreed
that the sponsors could elect, instead of repaying their loans to them, to
give them negotiable notes representing the debt.
2Q.        The Pledge Agreement would be signed by the Bank, the sponsors,
Loma Corporation and First National City Bank. Under this Agreement the
sponsors pledge their shares of Faleondo with First National City Bank for
the benefit of the Bank and Loma, as a further guarantee of the loans extended
to Falcondo. In the case of default of the sponsors, the trustee will be
entrusted with the management of Falcondo in substitution of the sponsors
and for the benefit of the Bank and Lona.
21.        The Lenders Agreement provides that each of the lenders may
exercise his remedies against Falcondo independently of the others but
calls for exchange of views between the lenders prior to taking any
such action. It also states that,in the event that security is realized
for senior debt by any lender, the proceeds thereof will be shared pro
rata with the other lenders.
2?.        The major features of the Sales Agreement between the sponsors
and Falcondo have already been described in paragraphs 12 and 13 above.
23.        The Bank Loan and Guarantee Agreements would be signed before
the other documents but execution of all of the other agreements with
the institutional lenders under terms satisfactory to the Bank would be
a condition o' effectiveness of the Bank loan. The sponsors and the
institutional lenders wish to have this arrangement in order to obtain
approval of the Guarantee Agreement by the Dominican Congress prior to
the signing of the other agreements; this would complete the necessary
Dominican Government actions on the project and enable the institutional
loans to be drawn down immediately after signature.



- 7 -
cocoa, tobacco and bauxite - have not done too well for a variety of
reasons. Coffee exports have been limited by the International Coffee
Agreement and until this year were under price pressures. Cocoa produc-
tion was badly neglected because of adverse market conditions until
recently and export earnings declined. Export earnings from bauxite
actually doubled between 1964 and 1969 - from US$4 million to US$8
million - but remain at this relatively low level because apparently
Alcoa's needs from this source are no larger. The only encouraging
sign has been that a variety of miscellaneous small exports has doubled
in recent years - from US$7.7 million to US$15.3 million. These include
meat, tropical fruits and vegetables and reflect the early results of
agricultural diversification. Total exports in 1969 are estimated at
US$180 million - exactly the same level as in 1964.
14       Even with a restrictive monetary policy and wage and price
controls, the demand for imports has had to be further restrained by a
50 percent surcharge on foreign exchange, prior import deposits, quotas,
outright exclusions and prohibitive tariffs. Nonetheless, the estimated
import bill this year of US$227 million will exceed by some US$25 million
the previous, exceptionally high peak level of 1964. A major reason for
the size of imports is that up to one-fifth of total imports consists of
foodstuffs. This is an inordinately high figure for a predominantly agri-
cultural country with unutilized land and manpower and is a reflection of
the low state of resource utilization. Many of these foods can be produced
economically within the country. Imports of consumer goods other than foods
have declined over the years of reconstruction because of increased costs
and restrictions on their importation, while still accounting for about
one-fourth of total imports. In large measure this decline has been off-
set by imports of raw materials and semi-processed goods which are converted
into finished consumer durables within the country. These imports, combined
with fuels, form the category of "intermediate goods" and account now for
almost one-third of total imports. Imports of capital goods have risen
with growth in investment activity to roughly one-fifth of total imports
and exceed their 1964 level.
15.       In spite of a trade deficit estimated at US$48 million and a
current account deficit of about US$90 million, the balance of payments
is expected to be manageable this year. This will come about as a result
of net inflows of private capital inthe form of direct investments,
loans and repatriations in the amount of US$74 million and of net public
capital in the amount of US$28 million. Henceforth the amount of public
capital inflow may be expected to decline since balance of payments support
by USAID terminated in 1968 and the pipeline is shrinking. U.S. assistance
is currently limited to P.L. 480 sales (wheat, edible oils, etc.) and to
project loans with substantial local currency financing features. Unless
private and other public capital inflows increase appreciably to compensate
for the elimination of balance of payments support, an even more restric-
tive import regime will have to be instituted next year to avoid raising
the level of commercial arrears, which is already substantial.



