Report No. 24142
Report No: iO76961 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/02/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: JORDAN Project ID: P076961
Project: Jordan: Horticultural Exports Promotion Project          Task Team Leader:
Tijan M. Sallah
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 4, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Bank Approval: June 14, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSRE     Sector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Increase and diversify high-value fresh produce exports to Gulf and
European
markets
Increase private investment in high-value fresh produce exports
Increase participation and access of small-scale and medium scale farmers
to
high-value fresh produce export markets
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
1. Agricultural Export Promotion Center
2. Strengthening Export Support Services and Systems
3. Monitoring & Evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will concentrate on farms in the Jordan Valley in areas where
there is largely good quality water. Because it is targeted at existing
and not new farms, no horizontal expansion is envisaged to protected areas
or critical natural habitats or socially sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on
the environment by supporting farmers to improve their farming practices.



C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The proposed project is largely for institution building, and is expected
to have positive impact on the environment by supporting farmers to
improve their farming through dissemination of best practice. Environment
issues affecting horticultural exports are poor water quality and poor
agricultural practices including inappropriate use of pesticides.
Although pesticides are widely used in the Jordan Valley, the proposed
project would neither finance the purchase of pesticides nor encourage
intensification of use, including increase of pesticide use and/or
expansion of present unsustainable management practices. Instead, it
would help in providing right advice on appropriate pesticide application
and provide testing for pesticide residue levels to be in compliance with
the demanding quality standards of the target markets. Similarly, the
project would be concentrated in areas where there is good water quality
to meet the high quality standards of the export market. Without the
Bank's involvement in the proposed project, poor farming practices, in
terms of unguided pesticide application, would continue with consequent
adverse environmental effects. In situations where farmers encounter poor
water quality, the project would support them with advice on good
practices to manage water quality.
EU standards will be used for determining maximum pesticide residue
levels and a pesticide management plan will be prepared to ensure
efficient use of pesticides. As part of the project progress report, an
assessment of the current pesticide use will be undertaken, quantity and
concentration will be provided, and recommendations for adjustments are
to be made in accordance with the pesticide management plan.
The social risks for undertaking the project are low. Since the project
objective is to improve export market access for small and medium scale
farmers by linking them to large-scale farmers, a potential risk may be if
the large farmers try to take advantage of the small. The project would
- 2-



mitigate this risk by defining clearly the terms of engagement in the
outgrower contract and by ensuring through clear communication and project
mediation that both large and small farmer are aware of the terms of the
agreement and that there is an independent system of arbitration in case
of dispute.
No safeguard policies are triggered as a result of the proposed LIL.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not appicable.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are large, medium and small-scale farmers in the
Jordan Valley, Jordan Valley Farmers Association, and the concerned
agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture. Discussions will be held with
them during appraisal on project design and their participation. However,
in view of the fact that there are no applicable safeguard policies under
the proposed project, there will not be any formal information disclosure.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
-3-



Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Tijan M. Sallah April 30, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Sherif Kamel F. Arif/Person/World Bank May 1,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:       John Keith Rennie-MNS/Person/World Bank May 1,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Sherif Kamel F. Arif    May 1, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Petros  Aklilu  May 1,2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



