Report No. PID11185
Project Name                     Jordan-Horticultural Exports...
Promotion Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Agro-Industry & Marketing
Project ID                       JOPE76961
Implementing Agency
Address: P.O. Box 555, Amman 11118,
Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Radi A. Tarawneh,
Director, Productive Projects
Department
Tel: 962-6-464-4466
Fax: 962-6-464-2247
Email: radi@mop.gov.jo
Ministry of Agriculture
Address: P.O. Box 2099, Amman, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Mahmoud Duwayri,
Minister
Tel: (962-6) 568-8642
Fax: (962-6) 5601924
Email: MOAMinister@MOA.gov.jo
National Center for Agricultural
Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT)
Address: P.O. Box 639, Baqaa 19381,
Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Abdennabi Fardous,
Director General
Tel: (962-6) 472-6680
Fax: (962-6) 472-6099
Email: Fardous@ncartt.gov.jo
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 3, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              April 4, 2002
Bank Approval Date               June 14, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Revive and accelerate economic growth with increased private investment
and
development of agriculture.
Support export oriented private sector investment in agricultural
sector.Improve water resources management and the environment
2. Objectives
Increase and diversify high-value fresh produce exports to Gulf and
European
marketsIncrease private investment in high-value fresh produce exports
Increase participation and access of small-scale and medium scale farmers



to
high-value fresh produce export markets
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Project Objectives. The development objective of the proposed Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to assist the Government of Jordan (GOJ) to
help farmers increase their share of horticultural exports in the Gulf
markets and to diversify such exports by increasing private exports of
non-traditional, high-value crops to the highly demanding markets in
European and Gulf countries, thereby reducing risks associated with the
political volatility in the regional markets. At present, three factors
which constrain producers and exporters ability to achieving this
objective are getting: (i) timely marketing information, including
knowledge of export market needs and the strict phytosanitary requirements
of especially the EU market; (ii) demand-driven support services and
systems that provide adaptive technological support through field testing
and verification of new varieties, soil and water management, pest and
disease management, and pesticide residue testing and related quality
certification services; and (iii) finance to upgrade the facilities and
logistics in the supply chain. The proposed LIL will test: (i) whether
private investment, including commercial bank financing, will respond with
additional investment in fresh produce production and exports and enable
Jordan to expand its share of the Gulf and European markets if GOJ
provides support under the project by remedying the constraint on
marketing information and support services and systems; and (ii)
modalities that would link small-scale and medium-scale farmers through
output contracting with large-scale farmers who have developed export
outlets. The proposed LIL is necessary to prepare the basis for the
modernization of Jordanian agriculture from its current high water
consumption but relatively low contribution in value-added terms to GDP to
one that maximizes the returns to this scarce factor. GOJ has requested
Bank assistance for the proposed project because it fits with its overall
growth strategy. The GOJ has made significant progress in opening up the
economy and in making it more efficient. The current policy environment
is directed to improve business confidence, promote exports, and attract
foreign direct investment. Export promotion, of which this LIL would be
part, features strong in the new King of Jordan led vision and plan,
Accelerating The National Social and Economic Transformation of Jordan,
which is envisaged to produce development results that would impact
favorably on the life of the average Jordanian citizen. Export promotion
is also one of the six priority programs on which GOJ would rely to
achieve the strategic goals set for the 1999-2003 Five-year Development
Plan. The Plan endorses continuation of the progress made in the last
five years. During that period, reforms were implemented, particularly in
agriculture where, under the IBRD- and KfW-financed but now closed
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) and its complementary
operations, the Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP),
price controls in input and output markets were eliminated along with the
the removal of distortions in the trade and incentive framework, thus
establishing the setting for increased private sector investment.
Simultaneously, under other reforms, a privatization strategy was
implemented, which recently included a management contract for water and
wastewater services for the Greater Amman area. GOJ is addressing the
water issue through a comprehensive water strategy dealing with water
demand and supply management, water sector policy formulation and
- 2-



planning, rationalized water sector institutional arrangements,
prioritized investment favoring higher value uses of water, and increased
efficiency of water use. The proposed LIL is is in line with the MENA
Water Strategy and is complementary to the Jordan Rift Valley Improvement
Project, currently under preparation, which is tackling prioritized water
investments, institutional reforms, and formulation of a reuse management
plan for marginal quality water. Background. Markets for Jordanian
agricultural produce are a problem. Exports have been historically
dependent on the politically vulnerable regional market. However, since
the Gulf war of 1991, Jordan's markets in the Gulf countries shrunk and
export prospects eroded. The country is slowly regaining its share of
this traditional market. Recently, for example, Jordan signed a free trade
agreement with Kuwait, which is expected to double its agricultural
exports to Kuwait from its current 94,000 tons (about 18-20t of total
agricultural exports) valued at JD 16 million (US$25 million). In
addition, Jordan is pursuing an export diversification strategy into the
stable, fast growing markets of Europe to reduce vulnerability. Presently,
Jordan's production capability far exceeds its export capability. The
local market, although growing, is relatively small and cannot absorb
surplus production. In fact, it is reported this year that, even though
horticultural production grew by 29t in the year 2000, about 25t of total
produce was wasted because of lack of adequate exporting outlets. There is
recognition by GOJ of the need not only to increase Jordan's share of Gulf
markets but also to diversify into the markets of Europe. These markets,
however, are more demanding in their quality and safety standard
requirements. These considerations call for substantial improvements in
produce quality in Jordan, in terms of better standards of production,
post-harvest handling, packaging and preserving the integrity of the cold
chain all the way to the European consumer. To serve the European market,
Jordan would also need improvement in market information and logistics to
monitor the demands of off-season, niche markets in Europe and to respond
to them in time. Based on study in the 1990s, there are at least 12 crops
where Jordan has definite commercial potential; i.e., strawberry, grape,
asparagus, melon, green bean, eggplant, tomatoes, pepper, peach,
nectarine, cherry and raspberry. The same study recommended off-season
exports through niche market windows targeted at four principal European
markets (Germany, France, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom). Jordan has
a population of about 4.1 million, with 0.5 ha million of cultivable area
(of which 30,000 ha covers irrigated agriculture in the Jordan Valley),
and produces annually about 1.5 million tons of vegetables and 0.5 million
tons of fruit. A wide range of agro-technologies are applied, ranging from
traditional agriculture characterized by furrow irrigation and traditional
inputs to highly advanced greenhouses using modern inputs.      Total exports
from Jordan in 1998 amounted to 365,000 tons of vegetables and 55,000 tons
of fruit (down from a peak of 550,000 tons in 1990). As a result,
marketing problems on the local market have increased significantly. The
main export markets are the low and medium quality markets of the United
Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar and Lebanon.    About 50t of the vegetable
exports consist of tomatoes marketed mainly to the Gulf states. Saudi
Arabia did not import any vegetables from Jordan in 1998 because of
perceived phytosanitary concerns, but constituted a major importer of
fruits (mainly lemons and clementine). Jordan's agricultural export to
non-Arab countries is small, amounting to about only 2t of the total
exported. In 1998, it amounted to 7,200 tons of vegetables and 1,000 tons
of fruit, mainly to Turkey, the UK, Germany, Russia, Romania and Israel
- 3 -



(consisting mainly of tomatoes, onions, cucumbers, and grapes). Jordan's
export to Europe (mainly of vegetables; i.e., cucumbers, green beans,
peppers, and grapes) in 1998 amounted to about 4,249 tons valued at about
US$ 5 million.    These amounts are less that 0.5 9 of Israel's (i.e.,
Jordan's neighbor's) agricultural export to these countries for the same
period. There is considerable scope to increase Jordan's exports to
Europe and also to the Gulf countries by expanding the access of
small-scale and medium-scale farmers to these markets. However, this
would require linking them through contract farming with the large-scale
farmers which would lead to improvements in quality and capitalizing on
the successes already of the large-scale farmers in exporting to Europe
and the Gulf. A few large-scale farmers are already doing outgrower
contracting but more of these farmers need to be catalyzed to get
involved.   Under this proposed project, GOJ would provide the requisite
support to catalyze large-scale farmers to contract with small-scale and
medium-scale farmers by way of incentives, timely marketing information
and support services and systems. Presently, about 6 large-scale farmers
have developed their own private links to the European market and are
modernizing their farms. Small-scale and medium-scale farmers, at
present, depend on the limited number of exporters (about 5) that serve as
intermediaries in currently exporting to Europe. Many small-scale farmers
have found contracts with these intermediaries-cum-exporters unreliable,
and consequently have had bad experiences. The big challenge to Jordanian
agriculture is the need to link the small-and medium-scale farmers through
these large-scale farmers and reliable exporters to gain access to the
potentially lucrative market in Europe and also to the increasingly
quality concious Gulf countries.
4. Description
1. Agricultural Export Promotion Component
2. Strengthening Export Support Services and Systems; i.e., Technology
Development and Transfer Component, and pesticide residue testing services.
3. Monitoring & Evaluation Component
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $2.00
IBRD                     $5.00
IDA
Total Project Cost       $7.00
6. Implementation
Project implementation would be coordinated by the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) which would report to a steering committee chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture. The Agricultural Export Promotion component
would be implemented through an Export Promotion Center. The technology
aspects of the Support Services and Systems component would be implemented
through a competitive grant system with NCARTT as the host and the
pesticide residue testing would be implemented through the Department of
Plant Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture. Monitoring and
Evaluation would be implemented through the PCU.
7. Sustainability
The project is an institution building operation, with focus on the
- 4 -



provision of quality control and commercially oriented services, such as
trade fairs, trade missions, and pesticide residue testing-- all with
charges to beneficiaries, which should make them sustainable.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned from past operations are that: (i) involving
beneficiaries in project design helps build ownership; (ii) government
internal clearance requirements for procurement amounts below the prior
review threshold can cause unnecessary implementation delays; and (iii)
devolution of investments to private operators would help promote the
sustainability of those investments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The proposed project has been designated
environmental classification C. It is largely for institution building,
and is expected to have positive impact on the environment by supporting
farmers to improve their farming through dissemination of best practice.
The proposed project would neither finance the purchase of pestices nor
encourage intensification of use. Instead, it would help in providing
right advice on appropriate pesticide application and provide testing for
pesticide residue levels to be in compliance with the demanding quality
standards of the target markets. Similarly, the project would be
concentrated in areas where there is good water quality to meet the high
standards of the export market. Without the Bank's involvement in the
proposed project, poor farming practices, in terms of unguided pesticide
application, would continue with consequent adverse environmental
effects. In situations where farmers encounter poor water quality, the
project would support them with advice on good practices to manage water
quality.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tijan M. Sallah
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2977
Fax: 202-477-1374
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
- 5 -



May 10, 2002.
- 6 -



