Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24428-JO
PROJECr APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
HORTICULTURAL EXPORTS PROMOTION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROJECT
June 25, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
JD 0.7 = US$ 1.0
US$ 1.4 = JD 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC          Agricultural Credit Corporation
AMD           Agricultural Marketing Department (MOA)
ASAL         Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASTSUP        Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project
COLEACP       Cooperative Framework for African, Caribbean and
Pacific countries' Horticultural Producers/Exporters
CRGF          Competitive Research Grant/Fund
GAP           Good Agricultural Practice code sof the Euro-Retailer
Producer Working Group
GOJ           Government of Jordan
HACCP         Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Path
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Develcz,ment
ISO           International Standards Organization
lTC           International Trade Center
JEDCO         Jordan Export Development and Commercia! Centers
Corporation
JEPAFV       Jordan Exporters and Producers Association fcr Fruit
and Vegetables
LEL           Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MNS           Market News Service
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOP          Ministry of Planning
MRL           Maximum residue level
NCARTT       National Center for Agricultural Research and Technoiogy
Transfer
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
TIC           Technical Implementation Committee
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Joseph Saba
Sector Manager:   Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader:   Tijan M. Sallah



JORDAN
HORTICULTURAL EXPORTS PROMOTION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                                                      Page
1.    W   hat is to be       learned      (why      the piloting)? ............................................................................                          3
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on                                                                                      3
operation)?
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                                                                4
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.    How will the learning take place? .....................................................................                                                            5
2.     Outcome-level test to be conducted .....................................................................                                                           5
3.     Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot .....................................................................                                                     5
4.     Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................                                                     5
5.     Triggers for a Follow-on Operation .....................................................................                                                           6
6.     Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................                                                         6
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1. Project components .....................................................................                                                                              6
2. Implementation arrangements                                                 ..11...........................................                                          1
a. Procurement .....................................................................                                                                              13
b. Financial Management .....................................................................                                                                     13
c. Other ......................................................................                                                                                   13
D. Risks
1.     Social and Enviromnental Risks .....................................................................                                                             14
a. Safeguard Policies .....................................................................                                                                       14
b. Other social risks ......................................................................                                                                      14
2. Other Risks ......................................................................                                                                                   15
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions .....................................................................                                                                       16
2. Other ......................................................................                                                                                          16
F. Readiness for Implementation .....................................................................                                                                          16
G. Compliance with Bank Policies .....................................................................                                                                         16
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary                                       .            .......................                     .                                               17
Annex 2.            Project Description ...................................................................                                                                   20
Annex 3.            Estimated Project Costs ...................................................................                                                               40
Annex 4.            Financial Management ...................................................................                                                                  41
Annex 5.            Project Processing Schedule ...................................................................                                                           44
Annex 6.            Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................................................                                                   45
Annex 7.            Documents in the Project File ....................................................................                                                        51
Annex 8.            Statement of Loans and Credits ...................................................................                                                         73
Annex 9.            Country at a Glance ...................................................................                                                                    75



JORDAN
Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: June 24, 2002                              Team Leader: Tijan M. Sallah
Sector Manager: Petros Aklilu                    Sector(s): Agricultural extension and research (35%),
Country Director: Joseph Saba                    Central government administration (20%), Agricultural
Project ID: P076961                              marketing and trade (45%)
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan  Theme(s): State enterprise/bank restructuring and
(LIL)                                            privatizat (S), Export development and cornpetitiveness
(P), Technology diffusion (S), Trade facilitation and
market access (S), Rural markets (S)
Project Financihg-Data -
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [] Grant     [1 Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 5.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: O Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
FinancingPlan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      1.40           0.00         1.40
IBRD                                                          0.00           5.00         5.00
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                    0.20           0.00         0.20
Total:                                                        1.60           5.00         6.60
Borrower: THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Responsible agency: MINSTRY OF PLANNING
Address: P.O. Box 555, Amnnan 11118, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Radi A. Tarawneh, Director, Productive Projects Department
Tel: 962-6464-4466           Fax: 962-6-464-2247          Email: radi@mop.govjo
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Agriculture
Address: P.O. Box 2099, Anmman, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Mahmoud Nejdawi, Director of Planning and Development Administration
Tel: (962-6) 568-6151         Fax: (962-6) 5687465          Email: Nejdawi-M@rnoa.govjo
National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT)
Address: P.O. Box 639, Baqaa 19381, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Abdennabi Fardous, Director General
Tel: (962-6) 472-6680         Fax: (962-6) 472-6099          Email: Fardous@ncartt.govjo



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
.: v, -  :-2003   .  -200       -2005     2006 4 |'- -
Annual      0.50      2.23      1.95       0.32
Cumulative     0.50      2.73      4.68       5.00
Project Implementation period: January 2003-June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 01/10/2003  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
-2 -



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
Project Objectives.
The development objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to assist the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) to improve horticultural export marketing by pilot testing: (i) a system of
outgrower farming between large and small/medium scale farmers (henceforth called outgrowers) in
order to achieve "critical mass" or "bulk volumes" demanded by the target markets and improve the
income of participating farmers; and (ii) the building of the technological capacity of farmers, especially
the outgrowers, to improve crop husbandry practices and their produce quality to satisfy the requirements
of target markets and reduce the rejection rates of exported consigrunents. At present, three factors
which constrain export marketing of fresh produce are: (i) critical mass to source destination markets,
especially given the fact that fresh produce markets in Europe increasingly prefer to deal with a few large
and reliable suppliers; (ii) timely marketing information and technical know-how to improve productivity
and enhance quality; and (iii) knowledge of the changing quality standards of the target high-value fresh
produce markets and getting the quick turnaround time from the existing produce testing and export
certification laboratories to satisfy the requirements of those markets. The proposed LEL is designed to
address these constraints. It is designed with significanrt private sector involvement, with the expectation
that horticultural export promotion would be taken over by a farmers/exporters association with open
membership. Success with this pilot operation is expected to provide a useful basis for Jordan to attract
greater investments in the development of the horticulture sector.
There is considerable scope to increase Jordan's exports to Europe and also to the Gulf countries
by expanding the access of small-scale and medium-scale farmers to these markets. However, this would
require linking them through contract farming with the large-scale farmers which would lead to
improvements in quality and capitalizing on the successes already of the large-scale farmers in exporting
to Europe and the Gulf. A few large-scale farmers are already doing outgrower contracting but more of
these farmers need to be catalyzed to get involved. Under this proposed project, GOJ would provide the
requisite support to catalyze large-scale farmers to contract with small-scale and medium-scale farmers
by way of incentives, timely marketing information and support services and systems.
Presently, about 6 large-scale farmer-exporters have developed their own private links to the
European market and are modernizing their farms. Small-scale and medium-scale farmers, at present,
depend on the limited number of strictly exporters (about 5) that serve as middlemen in currently
exporting to Europe. Many small-scale farmers have found contracts with middlemen who are strictly
exporters unreliable, and consequently have had bad experiences. The big challenge to Jordanian
agriculture is the need to link the small-and medium-scale farmers with the reliable large-scale
farmer-exporters to gain access to the potentially lucrative market in Europe and also to the increasingly
quality conscious Gulf countries.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any foliow-on operation)?
Document number: 19890-JO Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/16/1999
The result of the pilot project will fill an important gap in our knowledge on Jordan on the role of how
the provision of certain public goods by the government can facilitate horticultural export development for
relatively poorer farmers. Successful results in expanding export market access to Europe for relatively
poorer farmers through linking them with large-scale farmers can be an important lesson on how to organize
farmers at different levels of development for successful agricultural modernization.
- 3-



The project has been identified in the CAS and would contribute to the overarching CAS goal of
supporting a return of the Jordanian economy to a higher growth path with equity. It would do so by
supporting two of its four major declared objectives: (i) revive, maintain, and accelerate economic growth,
emphasizing higher levels of private investment and development of agriculture; and (ii) to improve water
resources management and the environment. More specifically, the proposed project would: (a) support
export oriented private sector investment in the agricultural sector; and (b) contribute to a more rational
natural resources management (mainly water and soil resources) through a more environmentally-sustainable
and efficient use of land and irrigation water, and with higher economic returns. Reference to this project
has also been made in the next Jordan CAS (FY03-05) currently under preparation for which an upstream
review with the government was recently completed. The new CAS is envisaged to be presented to the
Bank's Board in October 2002.
The results from this pilot project are expected to be scaled up through uptake by private domestic and
foreign investors, including commercial banks, who would be attracted by the improved marketing
opportunities and higher returns and manageable levels of risk.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
Hungary and Chile are two middle income countries comparable to Jordan where efforts, similar
to what is being proposed here by way of institutional development for marketing and quality control,
have yielded positive results. Although in the context of Hungary, the Bank provided a larger loan (i.e.,
US$ 70 million) to support an Agroprocessing Modernization Project to boost agricultural exports, that
project nonetheless helped Hungary to develop institutions that facilitated agro-exporting. Support was
provided to establish a Food Quality Information Center to provide information on food quality
regulations and legislation in OECD countries and to maintain a data bank and produce publications to
assist exporters. The National Food Inspection Institute was upgraded to improve safety and quality
standards, and training and equipment were provided to modernize the quality control laboratories,
resulting in increased confidence for Hungarian food products in OECD countries. Lastly, support was
provided for technology transfer to update production techniques. In the case of Chile, the government
in collaboration with an American corporation created Fundacion Chile, a non-profit institution, which
helped to improve market innovation and technology transfer to contribute value-added to Chile's
economy. Although Chile's success is also due to infrastructural development, particularly transport,
which helped boost fresh produce exports, the role of Fundacion cannot also be ignored. Fundacion has
been quite successful in developing agricultural production promotion and marketing strategies,
promotion of agribusiness investments, and the development of fresh produce suppliers. It has also been
successful in developing, adapting, and selling agricultural technology to farmers, and in developing
institutions for quality control and certification of particularly export fruit.
-4 -



B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The learning will take place through a structured survey aimed at documenting the response in
terms of incremental participation of small-scale and medium-scale farmers in export contracting
arrangements with large-scale farmers. In addition, improvements would be monitored in terms of how
small/medium-scale farmers come up to speed with instituting quality control, absorbing market
intelligence, and adopting technical practices obtained from the large farmer/exporters on their outgrower
farms. Through periodic structured standardized interviews carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation
staff in the Project Coordination Unit, the views of large and relatively poorer farmers participating in the
project would be elicited to find out whether the project is resulting in modernization of farm practices,
including quality improvements and income improvements. Success with this pilot will be used to
galvanize the interest of potential investors to scale up their investments in this potentially remunerative
sector.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
The pilot will test improvements in export marketing through: (i) a system of outgrower farming
in order to achieve "critical mass" demanded by the target markets and improve the income of
participating farmers; and (ii) the building of the technological capacity of farmers, especially the
outgrowers, to improve crop husbandry practices and iheir produce quality to satisfy the requirements of
target markets and reduce the rejection rates of exported consignments. A comparison would be made
before and after the project interventions to determine if proiect support has resulted in a significant
take-off of the outgrower scheme.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The pilot will be carried out as follows: (i) identify and select interested large farners/exporters
according to the agreed selection criteria developed and presented below under implementation
arrangements; (ii) have large farmers/exporters select outgrowers according to agreed criteria and prepare
contractual agreement between the parties; (iii) establish a baseline survey to set up appropriate
benchmarks for the outgrower system; (iv) launch Export Promotion Department in Jordan Export
Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) and provide selective support to AMD;
(v) establish the Technical Panel for the competitive grant/fund under the auspices of the National Center
for Agricultural Research and Technical Transfer (NCARTT), and identify appropriate qualified
candidates from  existing research institutions, including NCARTT, to be Technology Transfer
Specialists; (vi) agree on and implement training programs for all technical staff; (vii) undertake
Mid-Term Review during second year of project implementation; and maintain or restructure project as
needed.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
II Economic     2 Technical    17 Social        ZJ Participation
D Financial     I Institutional  [I Environmental LI Other
Financial. Small/medium-scale farmers (outgrowers) gaining export market access and modernization of
farm practices through the support of large farmers would be reflected in incremental quality and income
gains. Data will be collected during implementation to construct farm budgets to document incremental
financial benefits as a result of shifting produce from the domestic market to export markets.
Technical. Training of participating farmers would be documented and the impact of the menu of
agriculture technologies transferred monitored.



Institutional. The project would evaluate how effectively the establishment of the Export Promotion
Department is supplying market intelligence and promoting Jordan's exports. It would also monitor and
evaluate how upgrading the quality testing laboratories have improved sample testing turnaround time. It
would evaluate how effectively the competitive grant is mobilizing positive interaction on technology
development and transfer between national research institutions.
Social. Building social capital by way of trust would be key to the success of the outgrower system.
Through the efforts of the outgrower champion and through workshops, the project would support and
nurture sustainable partnerships between large farmers and outgrowers. Monitoring would be done on
the number of outgrower arrangements which endure every year of the project, including the number of
outgrowers staying in the arrangement.
Participation. This LEL requires a high degree of participation by large farmers/exporters and by
outgrowers. Already, their active participation during appraisal in giving feedback on alternative project
design options is promising. The LIL would build on that momentum by periodically holding meetings
with participating farmers to elicit their feedback on project performance, shortcomings, and next steps.
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
A follow-on operation would be justified if:
(i) the proposed arrangement between large farmers and outgrowers proves successful;
(ii) the rejection rates of Jordanian fresh produce is reduced significantly; and/or,
(iii)    export market access has been facilitated.
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
To track the impact of the project in terns of improving export marketing and development of the
outgrower system, support would be provided under the project for two monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
experts to be located in the Project Coordinating Unit. The M&E experts would carry out a baseline
survey of all the participating farmers/exporters in the project before the start of the project, including the
size of holding, crops grown, volumes exported, prices received and carry out subsequent semi-annual and
annual surveys during the implementation of the project to track the impact of the project in terms of the
evolution cropping patterns, quality and volume improvements, price improvements, and the number of
small/medium scale farmers granted access to export markets through the outgrower system. Export
statistics to the Gulf and European countries for participating farmers/exporters would also be monitored,
to the extent feasible, to document the influence of the project. Monitoring would also be carried out of
the quality testing and certification services to evaluate whether turnaround time has significantly
improved.
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
The proposed project would have four components: (A) Horticultural Exports Promotion; (B)
Strengthening Export Support Services and Systems: Demand-Driven Adaptive Technology
Development and Transfer; and (C) Quality Testing and Export Certification Services, and (D) Project
Coordination Unit.
-6 -



A.   Horticultural Export Promotion: It is envisaged under the project that this component will be
implemented by the Jordan Export Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) and the
Agricultural Marketing Department (AMD) of the Ministry of Agriculture with considerable private
sector involvement.
The project would finance the creation of a specialized department in the Jordan Export
Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) focusing solely on the promotion of
horticultural exports. It would also provide limited support to the AMD in its role on collecting and
relaying market prices to farmers, collecting statistics on production and export volumes, lobbying for
export-friendly policies, and regulatory functions. The new Department for Horticultural Export
Promotion to be established in JEDCO would be temporarily there until such a time that there is ready
private sector farmers/exporters association to take it over. In short, JEDCO would be a "business
incubator" for this Department. Support would be provided under this component to identify and build
capacity of a suitable farmers/exporters association to take over. The Department would be made up of
two divisions: one on Export Promotion Services; and the other on Research and Studies.
The choice of JEDCO is justified because it is a private/public entity, which has the broad
mandate of promoting Jordan's exports: industrial products and services.  JEDCO also has a
well-developed promotional infrastructure in Jordan and abroad, which would be upgraded under the
project to serve horticultural exports. JEDCO, established since 1972, has not been involved in
agricultural exports because it avoided duplicating the functions of the Agricultural Marketing
Organization (AMO). AMO, which was established in 1987 as a semi-independent entity in the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA), has been responsible for forrmulating agricultural marketing policies and public
sector development of both domestic and export markets. Although AMO has provided vital information
on farmgate and domestic wholesale market prices and kept track of the volume of production channelled
through domestic and export marketing outlets, it has lhad little success in providing practical assistance
to farmers and exporters and in promoting Jordan's horticultural exports. As a result, it was recently
abolished by the government. Some of its successful functions, however, such as maintenance of price
database would be assumed by the AMD.
Under the project, the Board of JEDCO, chaired by the Minister of Industry and Trade and
comprising 8 private sector and 7 public sector representatives, would be enlarged to include a
representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for
Fruits and Vegetables.
The three main functions, under the project, to be implemented by JEDCO and to a limited extent
by AMD, with considerable private sector involvement are identified below as: (i) promotional, (ii)
capacity building, and (iii) advocacy. Under:
(i) promotional activities: A computerized Trade Information Service (TIS) unit would be
established in the Horticultural Export Promotion Department of JEDCO to provide timely information
on markets and products, and to tap into ITC's Market News Service to provide on-line information on
horticultural produce and cut-flowers; and EU standards and codes of good agricultural practices, such as
the Euro-Retailer Producer Working Group (EUREP) GAP codes, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Path (HACCP) procedures for quality control, and the COLEACP Harmonized Framework for ACP
Codes of Practice for the horticulture and floriculture sector, which would, under the project, be
simplified, harmonized and translated into Arabic into a National Exporters Manual of uniform industry
standards for fresh produce exporters. Furthermore the Exporters Manual would be updated on a
periodic basis (i.e.; at least annually) to ensure that it remains a "living document," reflecting the
-7 -



continuing evolution of requirements and demands upon the trade in Europe. The Department of
Horticultural Export Promotion in JEDCO would carry out market research on defined target markets for
Jordan, formulate market entry and market consolidation strategies, provide export advisory services to
beneficiaries to take advantage of market opportunities, organize trade missions and trade fairs and
exhibitions, and related activities, including information dissemination. JEDCO would maintain a
website for export promotion of Jordanian produce, including providing products data of existing
large-scale farms and showcasing their products through virtual exhibition.
(ii) capacity building activities: JEDCO would help build capacity through activities such as
export awareness workshops with respect to costing and pricing, export packaging, transportation, and
quality standards, marketing extension, and supply capability studies. It would contract out these
activities to the most suitable entity, including AMD, as feasible.
(iii) advocacy activities: AMD and JEDCO would work together to promote a supportive policy
environment conducive to high-value agricultural exports. They would play the role of catalyst to bring
government attention to key policy issues that constrain horticultural exports (e.g., packaging
restrictions) and advocate their repeal and replacement with export friendly ones.
B. Strengthening Technologv Support Services and Systems: . The project would finance three
subcomponents to support production of horticulture and floriculture products:
(i)   Adaptive, Technology Development and Transfer. Support would be provided under the
project to assist farmers to adopt and adapt new high-value crop varieties into their farming systems.
A competitive research grant/fund (CRGF) in the amount of US$ 0.83 million would be available
for which national research entities would compete in providing problem-solving oriented research and
technology transfer services to farmers. The main objectives of the CRGF are to ensure that imported
seed and planting material are free of notifiable pests and diseases, and to help improve efficiency and
raise productivity through testing of new crop varieties, variety improvement and on-farm crop
management. Farmers participating in the project would be assisted through adaptive trials, verification,
and upscaling of production practices for production of high-value fresh produce.
For the operation of the CRGF, a Technical Panel would be established, hosted by NCARTT,
and comprising the Director General of NCARTT as chair, and outstanding technical professionals from
the Universities of Jordan, Ministry of Agriculture, Royal Scientific Society, and the private sector
(farmers, private researchers) and comprising one in each key technical thematic area facing Jordanian
horticulture (e.g., plastic/protected horticulture, IPM).
Technical problems needing solutions would be identified by high-value crops growers and
brought to the attention of the Technical Panel. The Panel will have a Technical Panel Support Unit in
NCARRT, comprising two staff, where technical problems raised by participating farmers can be
collected and brought to the attention of the Technical Panel. Where on-the-shelf technology answers are
available, it would be provided instantaneously to growers. Where they are not available and the
identified technical problem is generic and important enough to be worthy of research, then the Technical
Panel would recommend problem-solving, rapid response research to be carried out. Details of how the
competitive grant would be awarded are provided in Annex 2.
(ii)   Capacity Buildingfor Small/Medium Scale Farmers. Under the project, a program would
be developed to support large growers/exporters to get existing small/medium-scale farmers up to speed
-8-



as outgrowers. An "Outgrower Champion" (a person with legal/sociology training as well as farming
knowledge) would be hired in the Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit to assist small/medium
growers and large grower/exporters build successful and sustainable partnerships. A selected group of
contracted outgrowers would be supported (through JEDCO) to have a well-planned, escorted visit to key
markets in Europe to enable them to see first hand the full requirements of the market and how their
competitors are organized to meet these needs and demands. Training in the form of workshop and field
demonstration trials would be also provided to outgrowers in areas such as on-farm management and post
harvest systems.
(iii)  Technology Transfer Specialists (ITS). About 16 technology transfer specialists in
horticulture would be inducted and supported under the project to provide just-in- time technology help
to farmers participating in the project, especially small and medium-scale farmers. These TTSs would
come from existing public research institutions, including NCARTT, and cover such priority topical
areas as EUREP Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)/lntegrated Pest Management (1PM), post-harvest
technology, soil management, irrigation/water management, and some would be crop specialists
focussed on crops such as table grapes, tomatoes (cherry and standard varieties), strawberries, organic
produce, exotic vegetables (okra, etc.), and flowers (carnations, roses). In addition to an induction course
from high-caliber subject matter specialists, these TTSs would get their just-in-time technical know-how
to transfer to participating farmers from three sources: from the technologies coming out of NCARTT
and related research institutions; from the technical information coming out of the market intelligence
efforts of the Agricultural Export Promotion Departrnent at JEDCO which will show where gaps in the
market exist or where a competitor can be displaced -wkith a higher quality Jordanian product, and from
the technologies coming from the successful large farrners. Individual TTSs would be assigned with each
large farner and their outgrowers to help resolve echnical problems and strengthen outgrower
partnerships.
C. Quality Testing and Certification of Export Produce.
Export Certification. Effective July 2002, EU Regulations require produce from outside the EU to
undergo ISO style inspection by a government inspector in order to confirm each consignment's
conformity with the marketing standards applicable to: fresh fruits and vegetables. Only produce from
countries with an ISO 17025 and ISO 9000 style quality assurance system, where fresh produce is
certified before shipment, would have ease of entry and prevent the severe inspection delays at port of
entry and the risks to perishable consignment from the exportation of non-certified produce. jordan could
have a competitive quality edge by upgrading its certification facilities.
Under the project, support would be provided to the Plant Protection Directorate of the Ministry
of Agriculture to improve its capacity for testing pesticide residues and heavy metals in order to satisfy
the demanding quality requirements of the target export market to enable the issuing of internationally
acceptable quality certificates. Presently, the MOA issues certification to some exporters and others ship
their fresh produce without certificates with testing only at destination, posing great risk to the country's
export reputation. Cases have been reported of exports rejected by destination markets with heavy losses
to exporters. This state of affairs is due to insufficient capacity in the testing laboratories, which results
in slow turnaround of up to 10 days in the case of testing for heavy metals.
Compliance with EU Maximun Residue Levels (MRLs) is examined within national and EU
monitoring programs, and governments are empowered to initiate enforcement in the event of violations
of residue norms. This can result in heavy losses to the exporter and rejection of affected consignment.
This system of "naming and shaming" induces major EU retailers to avoid the adverse publicity which
could result. Thus, uncertainty about pesticide controls can adversely affect decisions on whether or not
-9-



to import produce from a prospective supplier country.
The existing pesticide formulation and pesticide residue laboratories service both domestic
consumers and produce exporters. The proximity of the two labs to each other, with the formulation
laboratory handling high concentration pesticides, would need to be alleviated soon to avoid the
possibility of cross-contamination. To bring the pesticide residue laboratory to a quality system to meet
EU accreditation and build full customer confidence in the EU market, support would be provided for
separation of the two facilities and rehabilitation of the residue laboratory. Under the project, it is agreed
support would be provided to upgrade the laboratory's capability, through training, technical assistance
and equipment support, such as a sample homogenizer, full automation of GC-MS, PC to manage
reference materials and QA data, LC-MS-MS, short-term local and overseas training in QA, ISO 17025,
QA audits, and technical assistance in the development of ISO 17025 and installation of new
methodology to carry out critical analyses. Support would also be provided to upgrade the heavy metals
testing laboratory to improve turnaround time.
Cold Chain Integrity for Quality Control at Airport. The project will select farmer/exporters
who have a dependable cold chain up to Queen Alia Airport in Amman. However, to make effective use
of the 40 ton capacity cold storage facility in the airport and to protect the integrity of the cold chain and
ensure produce quality at the airport, support would be provided under the project to purchase 14
thermal blankets to protect fresh produce on the pallets/air pallets when on the tarmac.
D. Project Coordination Unit.  A Project Coordination Unit, limnited to the duration of the project,
would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture to oversee project implementation and monitor
project progress and achievements. It would be adequately staffed with competent and experienced
professionals, including a project coordinator, an accountant, a procurement specialist, and 2
monitoring and evaluation specialists, one of whom would serve as an outgrower champion.
Detailed description for each component above are in Annex 2.
'Indicative  .       . Bank-     % dof:
Component          .       .   Cosb, - °/0 fts    financing  Bank-
r_. ___________4 _______________f________ _   _ s  ,(USSM)  Total-    (USS M)  fnancing
A. Horticultural Export Promotion                              0.0                 0.0
(i) JEDCO Export Promotion                         1.65      25.1      1.30      26.0
(ii) MOA Marketing Department                      0.61       9.3      0.38       7.6
B. Strengthening Technology Support Services:       2.36      35.9      1.76      35.2
Technology Development and Transfer
C. Quality Testing and Export Certification Services  1.06    16.1      0.93      18.6
D. Project Coordination Unit                         0.84     12.8      0.58      11.6
Total Project Costs  6.52     99.2      4.95      99.0
Front-end fee   0.05       0.8      0.05       1.0
Total Financing Required   6.57     100.0      5.00  -  100.0
-10-



Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs
The total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at JD 4.60 million (or US$6.57
million equivalent), of which the foreign exchange component is US$3.40 rnillion or 52 percent. Duties
and taxes are estimated at US$0.23 million. Base costs are calculated using April 2002 prices and are
estimated at US$6.08 million.
Project costs include allowances for both physical and price contingencies. A 5 percent physical
contingency has been applied for civil works (laboratory rehabilitation) and office equipment costs and 4
percent for costs associated with technical assistance. Price contingencies applied on base costs are as
follows:
FY03        FY04         FY05         FY06
Foreign Exchange Component 2.3         2.3          2.3          2.48
Local Currency Component  2.4          1.8          1.8          1.8
Total contingencies (physical and price) are estimated at about US$0.49 million or about 8 percent of
base costs.
Financing Plan
The project total cost would be financed mainly by IBRD (76 percent) and the Government (16
percent) and some cost sharing or contributions by private sector (i.e., JEDCO, horticultural exporters
and research institutions of about 8 percent). JEDCO and horticultural exporters would jointly finance
about 20 percent of the costs of trade fairs and exhibitions convened in the potential target export market
s. In addition, as demonstration of commnitment to the project, JEDCO's management agreed to finance
20 percent of the incremental cost of new staff and 100 percent of the recurrent operation and
maintenance of the office and vehicle costs. The project's financing plan is as follows:
Financier          Amount (US$ million)
IBRD                      5.00
JEDCO                     0.30
Beneficiaries             0.20
Govt. of Jordan           1.10
Total                   6.60
2. Implementation Arrangements
The project would be implemented over a period of three and a half years and is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2006. The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Jordan Export Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO).  It was agreed during
negotiations that the Horticultural Export Promotion Department in JEDCO would be established by no
later than one month after effectiveness. The Department would be in JEDCO on a temporary basis until
such a time that there is a ready private sector farmers/exporters association to take it over. In short,
JEDCO would be a "business incubator" for the Department. The implementing agencies will prepare
annual work plans and budgets, implement sub-project components, account for project expenditures,
-1 1-



and present accounts for audit annually, and monitor progress and submit annual progress reports.
Approval of annual work programs and budgets will be done by the Project Steering Conmmittee
explained below.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by a competitively recruited and experienced
Project Coordinator with a TOR acceptable to the Bank would be established in the MOA. It
was agreed during negotiations that the MOA would establish the PCU before effectiveness. The
PCU would be staffed with an accountant, a procurement specialist, and 2 monitoring and evaluation
specialists, one of whom would be an outgrower champion. Whereas the implementing agency for each
project component would develop their work plan and procurement needs, all procurement contracts
would be processed by the Project Coordination Unit in accordance with World Bank procurement
guidelines (see para. below on procurement).
The PCU would report to an oversight Project Steering Committee (PSC) with the Minister of
Agriculture as Chair. The composition of the Project Steering Committee overseeing the implementation
of the Project would be 60% private sector and 40% public sector. This was agreed during negotiations.
In addition to the Chair, the PSC would comprise the Secretary General, MOA; Director General of
NCARTT; Director General of JEDCO; a representative from the Ministry of Planning, the Project
Coordinator; a representative from ACC; and representatives of farmers (head of the JEPAFV, Chairman
of the Fresh Cut Flower Associations, Farmers Union) and 4 other nominated private sector
representatives (i.e., 2 successful large farmers and 2 successful small/medium scale farmers). The PSC
would have overall responsibility for formulating policy, and for reviewing and approving annual work
programs, budget, and helping resolve implementation bottlenecks that are beyond the control of the
PCU. The PCU would coordinate the project activities under four implementing entities: the export
promotion component under JEDCO and AMD; the adaptive technology transfer component under
NCARTT,. the export certification component under the Department of Plant Protection, and the
Monitoring and Evaluation in the PCU itself.
The pilot nature of the project requires timely formulation of coordinated strategy and action
programs to achieve its objectives. A Technical Implementation Committee (TIC) would be established
to ensure liaison, communication, cooperation and joint problem solving between the different project
implementing entities. The Project Coordinator will chair the TIC. The heads of each of the three
components of the project and the monitoring and evaluation specialist would function as members of the
committee. The TIC would meet bi-weekly to take stock of each other's progress and solve
implementation bottlenecks.
Since the agricultural export promotion component would be implemented through AMD and
JEDCO, which is an established organization with its own Board chaired by the Minster of Industry and
Trade, a representative from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Jordan Exporters and Producers
Association for Fruit and Vegetables would be added to the Board of JEDCO to promote the interest of
horticultural exports in Board discussions and decisions. A detailed organogram of the project's
management is in Annex 2.
The Selection Criteria for the Proposed Outgrower System
Selection of Large Farmer/Exporters. Criteria for including a large farmer to participate as
model central export farms to contract with small-scale and medium-scale farmers are that the:
(a) Farmer has marketing outlet to a demanding high-value fresh produce export market;
- 12 -



(b) Farmer has significant capital investment on farm by way of post-harvest infrastructure,
logistics and dependable cold chain; and
(c) Farmer is willing to contract with outgrowers and assist the outgrower in the adoption of
improved crop husbandry practices.
Selection of Small/Medium Scale Farmers. Criteria for selection of small/medium-scale farmers to
contract with large grower/exporters are that the:
(a) Farmer has access to suitable land for production;
(b) Farmer is enthusiastic to improve farm practices to access export markets; and
(c) Farmer is willing to participate in the project.
A model sample outgrower contract discussed with farmers is being prepared.
a. Procurement
It was agreed during negotiations that all procurement of goods, works and services financed in
whole or in part by the IBRD loan under this project would be competitively bid and contracted in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (Revised
September 1997).  All recruitrnent of consultants for project activities, such as selecting, contracting
and monitoring of consultants would be implemented in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Revised January 1999).
b. Financial Management
Financial management of the project will be part of the PCU responsibilities, which will be
housed in the MOA. The minimum financial management requirements will be established prior to
project effectiveness. To achieve this objective, a qualified consultant, supervised by a World Bank
financial management specialist, will be appointed shortly after loan signing. The consultant's terms of
reference, to be cleared by the Bank, will include preparing a project financial management manual,
setting up a computerized accounting system, and the training of the project accountant when appointed.
The financial management manual will describe, inter alia, the project accounting policies and
procedures, internal control procedures, key staff job descriptions, financial arrangements with other
project stakeholders, disbursement from the Special Account, internal and external reporting and auditing
arrangements.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be prepared for the project on quarterly basis within 45
days of the end of each quarter. The set of FMRs will include: (i) project progress summary, (ii) costs
planned and incurred during the quarter and to date per project component, along with explanations for
major variances, and (iii) procurement summary for contracts below the prior review threshold.
Project financial statements (project balance sheet, Special Account statement, and cash flow)
will be audited annually in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audited financial statements along with the auditor's opinion will be
sent to the Bank within six months of year-end.
- 13 -



c. Other
Disbursement:
To facilitate project implementation and disbursement against eligible expenditures, it was
agreed during negotiations that a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Jordan
which would be operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank (see Annex 6). The
Special account would have an authorized allocation of US$500,000 and will be periodically replenished
on the basis of withdrawal applications, which would be supported by appropriate documentation.
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
a. Safeguard Policies
No safeguard policies are triggered as a result of the proposed LIL. The proposed project is
largely for institution building, and is expected to have positive impact on the enviromnent by supporting
farmers to improve their farming through dissemination of best practice. Environmental issues affecting
horticultural exports are poor water quality and poor agricultural practices, including inappropriate use of
pesticides. Although pesticides are widely used in the Jordan Valley, the proposed project would neither
finance the purchase of pesticides nor encourage intensification of use, including increase of pesticides
use and/or expansion of present unsustainable management practices. Instead, it would help in providing
right advice on appropriate pesticide application and provide testing for pesticide residue levels to be in
compliance with the demanding quality standards of the target markets. Similarly, the project would be
concentrated in areas where there is good water quality to meet the high quality standards of the export
market.. Without the Bank's involvement in the proposed project, poor farming practices, in terms of
unguided pesticide application, would continue with consequent adverse environmental effects. In
situations where farmers encounter poor water quality, the project would support them with advice on
good practices to manage water quality.
EU standards will be used for deternining maximum pesticide residue levels and a pesticide
management plan will be prepared, where necessary, to ensure efficient use of pesticides. As part of the
project progress report, an assessment of the current pesticide use will be undertaken, quantity and
concentration will be provided, and recommendations for adjustment are to be made in accordance with
the pesticide management plan to be developed during implementation by participating farmers that have
not yet adopted Integrated Pest Management (IPM) methods.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
The social risks for undertaking the project are low. Since the project objective is to improve
export market access for small and medium scale farmers by linking them to large-scale farmers, a
potential risk may be if the large farmers try to take advantage of the small. The project would mitigate
this risk by defining clearly the terms of engagement in the outgrower contract and by ensuring through
clear communication and project mediation that both large and small farmer are aware of the terms of the
agreement and that there is an independent system of arbitration in case of dispute.
- 14 -



c. Financial Management Risks
The financial management risks are considered moderate. This consideration is due to the lack of
a readily available financial management system and qualified accountant. The risk will be mitigated by
hiring a qualified consultant to establish an adequate financial management system and a qualified
accountant for the project, both of which have been raised as a condition of effectiveness. The project
team will carry out adequate supervision missions in the first year to ensure satisfactory disposition of the
condition of effectiveness and appropriate compliance with appropriate financial management policies
and procedures.
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Selection of a weak project coordinator.  S         Project design would insist on open
competitive selection with acceptable TOR and
no-objection by the Bank.
Timely establishment of the Horticultural  M        Assurance would be sought that the
Export Promotion Department in                      Horticultural Export Promotion Department is
JEDCO.                                              established by no later than one month after
effectiveness.
Lack of agreement between                 M         Project design would require competitive
small/medium-scale fanners and                      selection of an outgrower liaison/community
large-scale farmer on outgrower contract.           organizer or outgrower champion with strong
legal background
Lack of interest of large farmers to join  M        PL;u would undertake large farmer awareness
with small farmers.                                 workshop to highlight advantages of outgrower
system.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of timely availability of counterpart  N       Project design is requiring an understanding
funds.                                              with government on the total counterpart
funding requirements during the duration of
implementation and that this be properly
budgeted annually and made available.
Lack of coordinated action by the         M         Project design is requiring a Project
individual implementing agencies of the             Coordinating Unit staffed with competent and
project components.                                 experienced staff.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 15 -



E. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
It was agreed during negotiations that thefollowing conditions would be met before loan effectiveness:(i)
that the government would send to IBRD a Project Implementation Manual, including an Operational Manual
for the Competitive Research Grant Fund on agriculture, acceptable to IBRD and the Government; (ii) that the
government would competitively recruit an experienced Project Coordinator, accountant and procurement
specialist with a terms of reference acceptable to IBRD and the Government; and (iii) that the government would
establish and maintain an adequate financial and procurement management system acceptable to the Bank and
the Government to implement the project.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
It was agreed during negotiations that the remaining key staff of the Project Coordinating Unit (M&E
specialist, Outgrower Champion, etc) would be competitively recruited with terms of references acceptable to
IBRD and the Government by no later than one month after effectiveness.
F. Readiness for Implementation
0l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LEL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Tijan M. Sallah                  Petros Aklilu                    Joseph Saba
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                  ,9untry Director
-16-a b; 6 IFZr; P%
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
", - ., Key" erformoanc,       Daa      lI"clon-Strategy
U Hie,rarchy of Objectives   -    . , gti;,.- ......                          .     ................ E-lndic tors  -,  C .r ,1  . 1; .'.i :,  .. ''itica Asumprtio ns
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Revive and accelerate       Increased investment in sector Project semi-annual progress
economic growth with                                    reports; national statistics;
increased private investment                            customs data.
and development of
agriculture; and favorable
pro-horticulture export
government policy changes.
Support export oriented     Increased volume and value of Trade statistics;
private sector investment in  agriculture/non-traditional  Customs data.
agricultural sector.        exports; regular trade fairs
taking place
Improve water resources     Shift to high-value and     Monitoring data.
management and the          sustainable horticulture that
environment                 saves water.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Widespread export
diversification of the
horticultural sub-sector.
Sustained attraction of private
capital in modemizing this
fresh-produce sub-sector.
Project Development         Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Increase and diversify      A significant increase in the  Periodic (semi-annual)   Adequate government
high-value fresh produce    volume and value of exports to progress reports (SPR). Bank  provision of counterpart funds,
exports to Gulf and European  these target markets.     semi-annual supervision     and government continued
markets.                                                reports (BSSR).             commitment to supporting
increased role of private sector
in horticultural exports.
Increase participation and  A significant increase in the  Periodic progress reports.
access of small-scale and   number of small and medium  Semi-annual Bank supervision
medium scale farmers to     scale farmers producing and  reports.
high-value fresh produce    being linked to,export
export markets              markets.
- 17-



| j ,, v'i-"'L~---]>          ..VUV7I¶NIM-          - "' UU; gOi  | iOtCol di tt | : gy             - - .......b.l
.-Hiewshy iOQees i:~y~ l .:.hl      *         bit i Co FI .ctXI6  S-trategy 
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Better market intelligence  Number of farmers/exporters  Semi-annual progress reports  It is assumed that a number of
and export market awareness  who participated in export  (SPR). Bank semi-annual  trade fairs and exhibitions,
among farmers/exporters,   fairs and exhibitions and  supervision reports (BSSR).  training seminars, study tours
including awareness of export export awareness building                         and market research would be
market standards.         training. Number of export                            carried out yearly. It is also
contract deals facilitated.                          assumed that a National
Number of Exporters Manual                           Exporters Manual would be
demanded/ in use.                                    produced and revised
periodically.
Better horticultural market  Farmgate, wholesale and  SPR/BSSR                 Information system is in place
pricing information.       export market prices and                             and operational.
marketing costs of 12 key
horticultural crops published
and disseminated to
farmer/exporters, especially
participating farmers, on a
regular basis.
B. Improved horticultural  Number of uptake of modern  SPR/BSSR                  It is assumed that a number of
technical practices and    horticultural practices by                            Technology Transfer
know-how sharing among     outgrowers. Number of                                 Specialist would be trained
participating farmers.     on-farm technical problems                            and operational. Also, a
successfully resolved.                                number of small/medium scale
farmers would be trained, and
a number of demonstration
trials conducted.
C. Improved quality testing  Number of export certificates  SPR/BSSR             It is assumed that the technical
and issuance of export    issued and improved                                    capacity of the laboratories
certificates.             turnaround time. Reduced                               would be upgraded in
rejection rates of Jordanian                          preparation for accreditation
horticultural exports.                                by the relevant EU directorate.



Key Peff danc          ata  llectlon Strategy,
Hie archy of ObJecUves   ui ,. IndicatoO r  !Csical                                  um   kons
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                       Outputs)
A. Horticultural Export  US$2.31 million
Promotion
B. Strengthening         US$2.36 million
Technology Support
Services and Systems
(i) Adaptive Technology
Development and Transfer:
Competitive Research
Grant/Fund;
(ii) Capacity Building for
Small/Medium Scale Farmers;
(iii) Technology Transfer
Specialists
C. Quality Testing and   US$1.06 million
Export Certification
Services
D. Project Coordinating and US$0.84 million
Monitoring Unit
-19-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
The proposed LIL is necessary to prepare the basis for the modernization of Jordanian agriculture
from its current high water consumption but relatively low contribution in value-added terms to GDP to
one that maximizes the returns to this scarce factor. GOJ has requested Bank assistance for the proposed
project because it fits with its overall growth strategy. The GOJ has made significant progress in opening
up the economy and in making it more efficient. The current policy environment is directed to improve
business confidence, promote exports, and attract foreign direct investment. Export promotion, of which
this LIL would be part, features strong in the new King of Jordan led vision and plan, Accelerating The
National Social and Economic Transformation of Jordan, which is envisaged to produce development
results that would impact favorably on the life of the average Jordanian citizen. Export promotion is also
one of the six priority programs on which GOJ would rely to achieve the strategic goals set for the
1999-2003 Five-year Development Plan. The Plan endorses continuation of the progress made in the last
five years. During that period, reforms were implemented, particularly in agriculture where, under the
IBRD- and KfW-financed but now closed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) and its
complementary operations, the Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP), price controls in
input and output markets were eliminated along with the removal of distortions in the trade and incentive
framework, thus establishing the setting for increased private sector investment. Simultaneously, under
other reforms, a privatization strategy was implemented, which recently included a management contract
for water and wastewater services for the Greater Amman area. GOJ is addressing the water issue through
a comprehensive water strategy dealing with water demand and supply management, water sector policy
formulation and planning, rationalized water sector institutional arrangements, prioritized investment
favoring higher value uses of water, and increased efficiency of water use. The proposed LUL is in line
with the MENA Water Strategy and is complementary to the Jordan Rift Valley Improvement Project,
currently under preparation, which is tackling prioritized water investments, institutional reforms, and
formulation of a reuse management plan for marginal quality water.
Background.
Markets for Jordanian agricultural produce are a problem. Exports have been historically
dependent on the politically vulnerable regional market. However, since the Gulf war of 1991, Jordan's
markets in the Gulf countries shrunk and export prospects eroded. The country is slowly regaining its
share of this traditional market. Recently, for example, Jordan signed a free trade agreement with Kuwait,
which is expected to double its agricultural exports to Kuwait from its current 94,000 tons (about 18-20%
of total agricultural exports) valued at JD 16 million (US$25 million). In addition, Jordan is pursuing an
export diversification strategy into the stable, fast growing markets of Europe to reduce vulnerability.
Presently, Jordan's production capability far exceeds its export capability. The local market, although
growing, is relatively small and cannot absorb surplus production. In fact, it is reported this year that, even
though horticultural production grew by 29% in the year 2000, about 25% of total produce was wasted
because of lack of adequate exporting outlets.
There is recognition by GOJ of the need not only to increase Jordan's share of Gulf markets but
also to diversify into the markets of Europe. These markets, however, are more demanding in their quality
and safety standard requirements. These considerations call for substantial improvements in produce
quality in Jordan, in terms of better standards of production, post-harvest handling, packaging and
preserving the integrity of the cold chain all the way to the European consumer. To serve the European
market, Jordan would also need improvement in market information and logistics to monitor the demands of
-20 -



off-season, niche markets in Europe and to respond to them in time. Based on study in the 1990s, there are
at least 12 crops where Jordan has definite commercial potential; i.e., strawberry, grape, asparagus, melon,
green bean, eggplant, tomatoes, pepper, peach, nectarine, cherry and raspberry.  The same study
recommended off-season exports through niche market windows targeted at four principal European
markets (Germany, France, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom).
Jordan has a population of about 4.9 million, with 0.5 ha million of cultivable area (of which
30,000 ha covers irrigated agriculture in the Jordan Valley), and produces annually about 1.5 million tons
of vegetables and 0.5 million tons of fruit. A wide range of agro-technologies are applied, ranging from
traditional agriculture characterized by furrow irrigation and traditional inputs to highly advanced
greenhouses using modem inputs.
Total exports from Jordan in the year 2000 amounted to 354,000 tons of vegetables and 42,000
tons of fruit (down from a peak of 550,000 tons in 1990). As a result, marketing problems on the local
market have increased significantly. The main export mnarkets are the low and medium quality markets of
the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar and Lebanon. About 55% of the vegetable exports consist of
tomatoes marketed mainly to the Gulf states. Saudi Arabia did not import any vegetables from Jordan
since 1998 because of perceived phytosanitary concerns, but constituted a major importer of fruits (mainly
lemons and clementine).
Jordan's agricultural export to non-Arab countries is small, amounting to about only 4% of the
total exported in year 2000. In 2000, it amounted to 14,250 tons of vegetables and 500 tons of fruit,
mainly to Turkey, the UK, Germany, Russia, Romania, Holland and France (consisting mainly of
tomatoes, onions, cucumbers, and grapes). Jordan's export to Europe (mainly of vegetables; i.e.,
cucumbers, green beans, peppers, and grapes) in 1998 amounted to about 4,249 tons valued at about US$
5 million. These amounts are less that 0.5 % of Israel's (i.e., Jordan's neighbor's) agricultural export to
these countries for the same period. There is considerable scope to increase Jordan's exports to Europe and
also to the Gulf countries by expanding the access of small-scale and medium-scale farmers to these
markets. However, this would require linking them through contract farming with the large-scale farmers
which would lead to improvements in quality and capitalizing on the successes already of the large-scale
farmers in exporting to Europe and the Gulf. A few large-scale farmers are already doing outgrower
contracting but more of these farmers need to be catalyzed to get involved. Under this proposed project,
GOJ would provide the requisite support to catalyze large-scale farmers to contract with small-scale and
medium-scale farmers by way of incentives, timely marketing information and support services and
systems.
Presently, about 6 large-scale farmer-exporters have developed their own private links to the
European market and are modernizing their farms. Small-scale and medium-scale farmers, at present,
depend on the limited number of strictly exporters (about 5) that serve as middlemen in currently exporting
to Europe. Many small-scale farmers have found contracts with middlemen who are strictly exporters
unreliable, and consequently have had bad experiences. The big challenge to Jordanian agriculture is the
need to link the small-and medium-scale farmers with the reliable large-scale farmer-exporters to gain
access to the potentially lucrative market in Europe and also to the increasingly quality conscious Gulf
countries.
The proposed project would have four components: (1) Horticultural Exports Promotion; (2)
Strengthening Technology Support Services and Systems: Demand-driven Adaptive Technology
Development and transfer; and (3) Quality Testing and Export Certification Services, and (4) Project
Coordination Unit.
- 21 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.13 million
1. Agricultural Export Promotion (Base Cost: $2.13 million). It is envisaged under the project that the
Agricultural Export Promotion Component will be implemented by the Jordan Export Development and
Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) and the Agricultural Marketing Department (AMD) of the
Ministry of Agriculture with considerable private sector (fanners/exporters) involvement.
The project would finance the creation of a specialized department in the Jordan Export
Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) focusing solely on the promotion of
horticultural exports. This Department for Horticultural Export Promotion would be established and made
up of two divisions: one on Export Promotion Services; and the other on Research and Studies. Drafts of
TORs have been prepared for the department and the two divisions.
The choice of JEDCO is justified because it is a private/public entity, which has the broad
mandate of promoting Jordan's exports. It has not been involved in agricultural exports because it avoided
duplicating the functions of the Agricultural Marketing Organization (AMO). AMO, which was
established in 1987 as a semi-independent entity in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), has been
responsible for formulating agricultural marketing policies and public sector development of both domestic
and export markets. However, it has had little success in providing practical assistance to farmers and
exporters. As a result, it was recently abolished by the govemment.
JEDCO, in existence since 1972, was founded to develop and promote Jordan's industrial
products and services, such as phosphate, potash, textile and pharmaceutical products.  JEDCO's
shareholders are the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Jordan Federation of Chambers of Commerce and
the Amman Chamber of Industry. Its Board is chaired by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and
comprises 15 members, of which 8 come from the private sector and 7 from the public sector. JEDCO
perceives itself as a private sector oriented entity.
JEDCO finances its operations from levies on exports and imports for which bilateral trade
agreements have been signed with Arab countries, from the rent of fair grounds, and from charges to
companies for services rendered. It has proved its sustainability over the past 30 years.
Since JEDCO has historically been non-involved in the promotion of horticultural products, under
this project, a specialized department would be incorporated into its structure to give horticultural export
promotion the concentrated focus it deserves to effectively penetrate and succeed in the desired target
markets of the Gulf States and Europe. Choice of JEDCO has clear organizational advantages, given its
well-developed promotional infrastructure both in Jordan and abroad, which would be upgraded under the
project to also serve horticultural exports.
The selection of JEDCO as the institution of choice to undertake the promotion of horticultural
products in potential target markets came about after substantive highly participatory discussions with the
government, involving especially the Ministry of Agriculture, staffs of AMD and JEDCO, and considerable
involvement of the private sector. This was followed by subsequent meetings held between representatives
of the private sector and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Under the project, all activities relating to the promotion of horticultural products for exports
- 22 -



would be transferred from the now defunct AMO to JEDCO. AMO would be transformed into the
Agricultural Marketing Department (AMD) under the Ministry of Agriculture, which would soon be
established, and would focus on regulatory, export policy, and the maintenance of domestic database
functions. A list drawn to delineate the functions of JEDCO and AMD and approved by the two parties is
below in this annex. It is subject to modification, as needed, during implementation.
The Board of JEDCO would be enlarged to include a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for Fruits and Vegetables.
A budget has been prepared covering expenditures for three years and was discussed and approved
by JEDCO's Management.    JEDCO has agreed to a cost-sharing arrangement as proof of their
comnitrnent to the promotion of the horticultural sector.
In terms of operations, the Agricultural Export Promotion component would involve three main
functions: (i) promotional, (ii) capacity building, and (iii) advocacy. Under:
(i) promotional activities: A computerized Trade Inmur[iiiuuou Service (TIS) unit would be
established in the Horticultural Export Promotion Department of JEDCO to provide timely information on
markets and products, and to tap into ITC's Market News Service to provide on-line information on
horticultural produce and cut-flowers; and EU standards and codes of good agricultural practices, such as
the Euro-Retailer Producer Working Group (EUREP) GAP codes, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Path (HACCP) procedures for quality control, and the COLEACP Harmonized Framework for ACP Codes
of Practice for the horticulture and floriculture sector,, which would, under the project, be simplified,
harmonized and translated into Arabic into a National'Manual of uniform industry standards for fresh
produce exporters. Furthermore the National Manual would be updated on a periodic basis (i.e., at least
annually) to ensure that it remains a "living document," reflecting the continuing evolution of requirements
and demands upon the trade in Europe. The Department of Horticultural Export Promotion in JEDCO
would carry out market research on defined target markets for Jordan, formulate market entry and market
consolidation strategies, provide export advisory services to beneficiaries to take advantage of market
opportunities, organize trade missions and trade fairs and exhibitions, and related activities, including
information dissemination. JEDCO would maintain a website for export promotion of Jordanian produce,
including providing products data of existing large-scale farms and showcasing their products through
virtual exhibition.
(ii) capacity building activities: JEDCO would help build capacity through activities such as
export awareness workshops with respect to costing and pricing, export packaging, transportation, and
quality standards, marketing extension, and supply capability studies. It would contract out these activities
to the most suitable entity, including AMD, as feasible.
(iii) advocacy activities: AMD and JEDCO would work together to promote a supportive policy
environment conducive to high-value agricultural exports. They would play the role of catalyst to bring
govemment attention to key policy issues that constrain horticultural exports (e.g., packaging restrictions)
and advocate their repeal and replacement with export friendly ones.
- 23 -



Honr lkukural Export Promoton Component
AGREED LIST BETWEEN GOVERMENT, JEDCO AND IBRD
Dision of Resuonasbfllttes between- MOA and JEDCO
Ministry of Agriulture (flep.of Marketing)
Conducting Supply capability studies                                  MOA
Product adaptation researcb                                           MOA
Maintaining domestc price information - farm-gate, wholesale, retail etc.  MOA
Marketing extension                                                   MOA
Demand/market research                                          JEDCO
Provision of trade information service                          JEDCO
Organizing trade fairs and exhibitions                          JEDCO
Organizing buyer/seller meetings                                JEDCO
Mounting promotional campaign                                   JEDCO
Provision of speciize services
Export procedures (awareness)                                   JEDCO
Marketing strategy formulation                                  JEDCO
Costing and prcing                                               MOA
Export packaging                                                 MOA
Financing options                                                JEDCO
Transportation options                                           MOA
Quality standards awareness                                     MOA
Legal apets of foreign trde (INCOTERMS) drafing model Contracts JEDCO
Foreign data base                                                JEDCO
Branding                                                         JEDCO
-24 -



Project Component 2 - US$2.19 million
2. Strengthening Technology Support Services and Systems (Base Cost: US$ 2.19 million). The
project would finance three subcomponents to support production of horticulture and floriculture products
and ensure they are in compliance with the consumer tastes and due diligence requirements of food safety
and consumer health of the target European market. These subcomponents are:
(i)    Adaptive Technology Development and Transfer. Support would be provided under the
project to assist farmers to adopt and adapt new high-value crop varieties into their fanning systems to
ensure that imported seed and planting material are free of notifiable pests and diseases, and to help
improve efficiency and raise productivity through testing of new crop varieties, variety improvement and
on-farm crop management. Farmers participating in the project would be assisted through adaptive trials,
verification, and upscaling of production practices for production of high-value fresh produce.
A competitive research grant/fund in the amount of US$ 0.83 million (financed 0.66 from IBRD
and 0.2 from benefitting research institutions) would be established that is demand-driven and for which
national research entities would compete in providing problem-solving oriented research and technology
transfer services to farmers. A Technical Panel would be established, hosted by NCARTT, and comprising
the Director General of NCARTT as chair, and outstandi,ng technical professionals from the Universities of
Jordan, Ministry of Agriculture, Royal Scientific Society, and the private sector (farmers, private
researchers) and comprising one in each key technical thematic areas facing Jordanian horticulture (e.g.,
plastic/protected horticulture, IPM).
Technical problems needing solutions would be identified by high-value growers and brought to the
attention of the Technical Panel. The Technical Panel will have a Technical Panel Support Unit,
comprising two staff, where technical problems raised by participating farmers can be collected and
brought to the attention of the Technical Panel. Where on-the-shelf technology answers are available, it
would be provided instantaneously to growers. Where they are not available and the identified technical
problem is generic and important enough to be worthy of research, then the Technical Panel would
recommend problem-solving, rapid response research to be carried out The steps for award of the
competitive grant would be as follows:
Identification of technical problem facing farmers.
A call or request for research proposals (TOR's, curriculum vitae).
Screening of proposals (following eligibility guidelines, such as scientific quality, clarity of work plan,
timeliness of completion, relevance, experience of author of proposal, adequacy of institutional
support, and budget).
Technical review of accepted proposals (scoring and ranking).
Award of grants (with limits set on size of grants).
Evaluation of research results.
Transfer of results to farmers, with monitoring indicators set.
(ii)   Capacity Building for Small/Medium Scale Farmers. Under the project, a program would
be developed to support large growers/exporters to get existing small/medium-scale farmers up to speed as
outgrowers. An "Outgrower Champion" (a person with legal/sociology training as well as farming
knowledge) would be hired in the Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit to assist small/medium
growers and large grower/exporters build successful and sustainable partnerships. Training would be
- 25-



provided to small- and medium-scale farmers through workshops and demonstration trials on the large
export farms to help small- and medium-scale farmers improve their on-farm practices with high-value
crops and their utilization and management of post-harvest systems.
(iii)  Technology Transfer Specialists (7TS). About 16 technology transfer specialists in
horticulture would be inducted and supported under the project to provide just-in- time technology help to
farmers participating in the project, especially small and medium-scale farmers. These TTSs would come
from existing staff of the public research institutions, including NCARTT, and would cover such priority
topical areas as EUREP Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)/Integrated Pest Management (EPM),
post-harvest technology, soil management, irnigation/water management, and some would be crop
specialists focussed on crops such as table grapes, tomatoes (cherry and standard varieties), exotic
vegetables (okra, etc.), flowers (carnations, roses), dates, peppers (sweet and chilli), strawberries, beans,
stone fruit (nectarine, peaches, etc), cucurbits (cucumber, melons, etc.), citrus, and organic produce. In
addition to an induction course from high-caliber subject matter specialists, these TTSs would get their
just-in-time technical know-how to transfer to participating farmers from  three sources: from the
technologies coming out of NCARTT and related research institutions; from the technical informnation
coming out of the market intelligence efforts of the Agricultural Export Promotion Department at JEDCO
which will show where gaps in the market exist or where a competitor can be displaced with a higher
quality Jordanian product, and from the technologies comiing from the successful large farmers.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.98 million
3. Quality Testing and Certification of Export Produce (Base Cost: US$0.98 million).
Export Certification.  From July 1, 2002, the EU Regulation EC No. 1148/2001 would be
introduced, which would require that all produce arriving in the EU from third countries must undergo an
ISO style inspection by a government inspector in order to confirm each consignment's conformity with the
marketing standards applicable to fresh fruits and vegetables. Fresh produce would be checked for
conformity to the marketing standards laid down in Articles 7,8, and 9 of EC Regulation No. 2200/96, and
this check would be carried out at the airport or port of entry before the produce can be released into free
circulation. The only exception to this regulation would be fresh produce consignments accompanied by
certificates confirming compliance from countries whose systems of checking export quality have been
pre-approved by the relevant EU Directorate. Those consignments bearing both a phytosanitary and
quality conformity certificate would be released as soon as customs procedures are complete. Until a large
number of countries have registered their systems, any country with an "approved" system will have strong
competitive edge over competitors. This strict requirements makes it all the more important for Jordan to
put in place an ISO 17025 and ISO 9000 style quality assurance system to ensure that EU-bound fresh
produce that is officially certified by the Ministry of Agriculture would have ease of entry rather than face
delays and risks to perishable consignment at port of entry.
Under the project, support would be provided to the Plant Protection Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture to irnprove its capacity for testing pesticide residues and heavy metals in order to satisfy the
demanding quality requirements of the target export market to enable the issuing of intemationally
acceptable quality certificates. Presently, the MOA issues certification to some exporters and others ship
their fresh produce without certificates with testing only at destination, posing great risk to the country's
export reputation. This state of affairs is due to insufficient capacity in the testing laboratories, which
results in slow tumaround of up to 10 days in the case of testing for heavy metals.
Compliance with EU Maximum Residue Levels (MRLs) is examined within national and EU
monitoring programs, and govemments are empowered to initiate enforcement in the event of violations of
- 26-



residue norms. This can result in heavy losses to the exporter and rejection of affected consignment. This
system of "naming and shaming" induces major. EU retailers to avoid the adverse publicity which could
result. Thus, uncertainty about pesticide controls can adversely affect decisions on whether or not to
import produce from a prospective supplier country.
Jordan has implemented a range of controls, including legislation on approval of pesticides for
marketing and use. At present, Jordan's capability to carry out field trials to prove that residues at harvest
are acceptable when pesticide formulations are used under local conditions needs to be developed. Reliance
on manufacturers to provide supporting data may cause increasing risk as new sources of supply are
sought; e.g., from the Far East.
The existing pesticide formulation and pesticide residue laboratories services both domestic
consumers. and produce exporters. The proximity of the two labs to each other, with the formulation
laboratory handling high concentration pesticides, would need to be alleyiated soon to avoid the possibility
of cross-contamination. To bring the pesticide residue laboratory to a quality system to meet EU
accreditation and build full customer confidence in the EU market,. support would be provided for
separation of the two facilities and rehabilitation of the residue laboratory. Under the project, it is agreed
support would be provided to upgrade the laboratory's capability to carry out critical analyses in the form
of a sample homogenizer, full automation of GC-MS, PC to manage reference materials and QA data,
LC-MS-MS, short-term local and overseas training in QA, ISO 17025, QA audits, and technical
assistance in the development of ISO 17025 and installation of new methodology. Support would also be
provided to upgrade the heavy metals testing laboratory to improve turnaround time.
Implementation Indicators:
Year 1
-ISO 17025 Accreditation
Complete all documentation of all Quality System procedures in preparation for inspection by
accreditation body.
-Proficiency Testing
Enter relevant rounds of FAPAS and achieve satisfactory performance level.
-Extension of Capability
Commission new equipment and extend analysis suite to cover pesticide usage in Jordan. Install databases
for intemational standards and laboratory performance monitoring.
-Service levels
Bring turnaround time for heavy metals analysis in line with pesticide residues analysis.
-Integrated Management Systems.
Commission IMS and automate sample management and report generation.
- 27 -



Year 2
-Accreditation
Complete additional documentation and procedures for GLP and undertake inspection by accreditation
body.
-Extension of Capability
Commission GC-ITD and move critical analyses to positive release status.
Year 3
-Commission second GC-ITD and move all analyses to positive release.
Cold Chain Integrity for Quality Control at Airport. The project will select farmer/exporters who
have a dependable cold chain up to Queen Alia Airport in Amman. However, to make effective use of the
40 ton capacity USAID-fmanced cold storage facility and to protect the integrity of the cold chain and
ensure produce quality at the airport, support would be provided under the project to purchase thermal
blankets to protect fresh produce on the pallets/air pallets when on the tarmac.
Project Component 4 - US$0.77 million
4. Project Coordination Unit (Base Cost:US$0.77 million). A Project Coordination Unit, limited to the
duration of the project, would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture to oversee project
implementation and monitor project progress and achievements. It would be adequately staffed with
competent and experienced professionals, including a project coordinator, an accountant, a procurement
specialist, and 2 monitoring and evaluation specialists, one of whom would be an outgrower champion.
- 28 -



Annex 2
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Project Steering Conmtiftee (60% plivate; 40% public)
-Minister of AgriculWe (Chair)
-Secretary General, MOA
-Ministry of Planning
-NCARTT, ACC
-JEDCO
-Exporters Association (JEPAFV)
-Fresh-Cut Flower Association
-Farmers Union & 6 private sector rp. (big/small faners)
Project Coordination Unit
-Project Coordinator
-Accountant
-Procurement Specialist
-2 M(aitoring and Evaluation Specialis1s
JEDCO                 Agri.                 Departme
Marketing             nt of Pbt
Dq0.                  Proktectoo
(AMD) in              (Labs.)
-29 -



{~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~or ofro         Directors   Ane    2 JDC' ORAIZT
Di _GeneraintDnt or G¢neral
Assistni Dr                                                                      (Finance & Admin.)
GcAml (Technical)
Trade  lnforookon  FoMn  Tnhwcm                  Ara            Finance        ~~~~~~~Computer  Administration
| Trade          Cetr |         Markets   |     ServketIpicare              MArab              at             Center       Department
t Dnmen            l     ~~~~~~~~Department  Proints      Dpntou       Ue#t.                  _ 
Dep,1   t       De-                   1 r   Departent
L   Informatsion    _               |  .                              }       eBudpt &       Affairs
Nctwfjrkes        Hesen":h                              l              Financial Con"[ol       Unit      F Diwan
E.    I_      RScan                         Fxpmt                          Section
I Export       Conmmeecc              ,      |  Strvicas |  0 pion Lg        1                                      ffi Adrninistrivc
I iinancing                                                     |Seiceto Section . nIRch iScor 
Setvice                                                                                  Aoou,,tingS n r cI         ,
Section                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~section
Personnel Affairs
Prx6ects                      ~~~~~~~Amman mnt.I                 ou      t
T 1rade  |Far Sectitn
Secn A       |    Liby L                    I                            prmotional                                 |Med.,&PublicL
activities                                  ReahnSection
Scvt'r                                   L



HASHEHITE.KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Pro;34t Cost Suxary
V. Total
>~         (JD)                         IUS$)             Foreign   Base
. Local   Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange Costs
A. Agricultural Export Promotion
JEDCO Export Promotion                                356,222.2 706,183.6 1,062,406 508,888.9 1,008,834 1,517,723     66       25
HOA Marketing                                         181,891.1 243,984.6 425,875.8 259,844.5 348,549.5 608,393.9     57       10
Subtotal Agricultural Export Promotion                   538,113.3 950,168.2 1,488,282 768,733.3 1,357,383 2,126,117     64       35
B. Strengthening Farmer-Driven Technology Support Service 1,057,010 477,086.7 1,534,097 1,510,015 681,552.4 2,191,567    31      36
C. Quality Testing and Export Certification svs.         196,060.7 490,528.2 686,588.9 280,086.7 700,754.6 980,841.3     71       16
D. Project Coordination Unit                             256,964.6 287,209.7 544,174.3 367,092.3 410,299.6 777,391.9     53       13
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     2,048,149 2,204,993 4,253,142 2,925,927 3,149,990 6,075,917      52      100
Physical Contingencies                                   57,785.8  72,820.4 130,606.2  82,551.1 104,029.2 186,580.3     56       3
Price Contingencies                                     108,778.1 104,074.8 212,852.9 155,397.2 148,678.3 304,075.5     49        5
Total PROECT COSTS                                        2,214,713 2,381,888 4,596,601 3,163,875 3,402,697 6,566,573     52      108
Sun Jun 02 12:27:26 2002
8-1 Project Cost Summary



HASHEMITE KINGDOH OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
PVoet Coat Sumary
I     8 Total
(JD)                         (USS)            Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign   Total     Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costa
a. Equipmnt
Vehicles                                            59,863.5  89,784.4 149,647.9  85,519.3 128,263.5 213,782.7     60        4
Office and Lab Equipment                           231,408.4 515,163.7 746,572.1 330,583.4 735,948.2 i,066,532     69       18
Subtotal Equipnt                                      291,271.9 604,948.1 896,220.0 416,102.7 864,211.6 1,280,314     67      21
B. Technical Assistanco
1. Expert Services
Local                                            94,394.3  10,043.0 104,437.3 134,849.0  14,347.1 149,196.2     10       2
Foreign                                                 - 176,355.1 176,355.1        - 251,935.8 251,935.8     100       4
Subtotal Expert Services                            94,394.3 186,398.1 280,792.4 134,849.0 266,283.0 401,132.0     66       7
2. Capecity Building
National Training                                46,168.5        - 46,568.5   66,526.5         - 66,526.5        -        1
Foreign Training                                        - 293,255.6 293,255.6        - 418,936.6 418,936.6     100       7
Subtotal Capecity Building                          46,568.5 293,255.6 339,824.1  66,526.5 418,936.6 485,463.1     86       8
3. Trade Promotion Research and Technical Report.  208,442.0 137,087.0 345,528.9 297,774.3 195,838.5 493,612.8     40       8
4. Trade Fair and Exhibetion, and Technical Meeting 758,831.8 544,123.7 1,302,956 1,084,045 777,319.6 1,861,365    42      31
Subtotal Technical Assistance                         1,108,237 1,160,864 2,269,101 1,583,195 1,658,378 3,241,573     51      53
C. Civil Works(Lab Rehabilitation)                     37,717.5  12,553.8  50,271.3  53,882.1  17,933.9  71,816.1     25       1
D. Afr. Technology Comp. Research Grant Fund          328,896.6 218,937.4 547,834.0 469,852.3 312,767.7 782,620.0     40      13
Total Investmant Costs                                   1,766,123 1,997,304 3,763,426 2,523,032 2,853,291 5,376,323     53       88
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicles Running Cost                               59,945.7  59,856.3 119,802.0  85,636.7  85,509.0 171,145.7     50       3
B. Office Running Cost                                222,080.6 147,833.0 369,913.6 317,258.1 211,189.9 528,448.0     40       9
Total Recurrent Costa                                    282,026.3 207,689.2 489,715.6 402,894.7 296,698.9 699,593.7     42       12
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      2,048,149 2,204,993 4,253,142 2,925,927 3,149,990 6,075,917     52      100
Physical Contingencies                                    57,785.8  72,820.4 130,606.2  82,551.1 104,029.2 186,580.3    56        3
Price Contingencies                                      108,778.1 104,074.8 212,852.9 155,397.2 148,678.3 304,075.5    49        5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       2,214,713 2,381,888 4,596,601 3,163,875 3,402,697 6,566,573     52      108
Sun Jun 02 12:27:26 2002
C9.)
9-1 Pro2ect Cost Summary



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Canponents by Financiers
(USS)
Local
GOVT               IBRD                JEDCO          Beneficiaries          Total          For.     (Excl.   Duties
Amount       %     Amount       %      Amount             h Amount     .      Amount      I       Exch.    Taxes)     Taxes
A. Agricultural Export Promotion
JEDCO Export Promotion                                 23,781.9      1.4 1,297,168     78.6 290,333.0      17.6  39,890.3      2.4 1,651,173      25.1 1,098,469 528,922.3  23,781.9
MOA Marketing                                         227,372.5     34.7 428,283.7      65.3        -         -         -        - 655,656.2      10.0 376,274.9 258,615.3  20,766.0
Subtotal Agricultural Export Promotion                  251,154.4      10.9 1,725,451     74.8 290,333.0      12.6  39, 890.3     1.7 2,306,829     35.1 1,474,743 787,537.6  44,547.9
S. Strengthening Farmer-Driven Technology Support Service 430,773.3    18.3 1,759,465     74.7         -         - 165,342.2      7.0 2,355,580     35.9 725,474.1 1,597,155  32,951.7
C. Quality Testing and Export Certification Sva.        129,286.6      12.2 931,754.2     87.8         -         -        -         - 1,061,041     16.2 757,430.3 197,689.4 105,921.1
D. Pro]ect Coordination Unit                            258,656.3      30.7 584,466.2     69.3         -        _         _         - 843,122.5     12.8 445,049.4 355,789.0  42,284.1
Total Diabur ant                                         1,069,871      16.3 5,001,137     76.2 290,333.0       4.4 205,232.5      3.1 6,566,573    100.0 3,402,697 2,938,171 225,704.8
Sun Jun 02 12:27:25 2002
7-1 Components by Financiers



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Projec
Diabureant Acoounts by Financiers
(USS)
Local
GOVT                1ORD               JEDCO          Beneficiaries           Total         For.     (Excl.   Duties E
Amount       Y     Amount       Y      Amount        _    Amount       Y     Amount       %       Exch.    Taxes)     Taxes
A. Equipment                                            225,704.8    .16.4 1,146,096      83.6        -         -                  - 1,373,801      20.9 927,539.0 220,556.8 225,704.6
B. Technical Assistance
Capacity Building,Expert Services and Market Research        -        - 1,421,644     100.0        -         -         -        - 1,421,644      21.6 955,913.5 465,730.9        -
Trade Fairs and Technical Support                    254,344.1     12.0 1,715,508      80.7 114,914.1      5.4  39,990.3      1.9 2,124,657      32.4 854,854.8 1,269,802        -
Subtotal Technical Aasistance                           254,344.1      7.2 3,137,153      88.5 114,914.1      3.2  39,890.3      1.1 3,546,301      54.0 1,810,768 1,735,533        -
C. Civil Works(Lab. Rehabilitation)                     23,365.5      30.0  54,519.5      70.0        -         -                  - 77,884.9        1.2  19,383.5  58,501.4        -
D. Agric. Technology and Comp. Research Grant/Fund             -         - 661,368.9     80.0         -         - 165,342.2     20.0 826,711.1      12.6 330,271.5 496,439.5
E. Recurrent Cost                                      566,456.3      76.4         -        - 175,418.9      23.6         -        - 741,875.2      11.3 314,735.0 427,140.2        -
Total                                                    1,069,871     16.3 5,001,137     76.2 290,333.0       4.4 205,232.5      3.1 6,566,573     100.0 3,402,697 2,938,171 225,704.8
Sun Jun 02 12:27:25 2002
6-1 Disbursement ACCounts by Financiers



HASHEMITE KINGDOM or JORDAN
Horticultural export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
TabLe 1. Horticultural export Promotion Componlent, Sub-coUponent iJEDCO)
Detailed CoatS
Unit Cost
Quantities            Unit Cost NlegotoatLoo                    Rase Cost (US$                               Base Cost- Negotoat
Unit     2003   2004  2005  2006   Total _ US$3         (US$3      2003       2004      2005       2006      Total      2003       2004      2005
I. Investent costs
A. Kquipment (Supprt for Ixport Promotion Deparent)
1. Vehiole
4 W4hei Drive                                               Number         2     -     -      -     2 24,285.714   24,391.318  40,571.4          -                    -   48,571.4  48,782.6                    -
2. Office Squipeent
computer                                                    Number         6     -     -      -     6  1,754.286     1,722.16  10,285.7          ---                      10,285.7  10,323.0--
Printer                                                     Number         2     -     -      -     2  1,142.857    1,148.106   2,281.7          ---                       2,285.7   2,296.2--
Photocopier, Fae and Scanner                                Number         1     -     -      -     1  8,571.428    8,610.798   8,571.4          ---                       8,571.4   8,610.80 
Office Furniture                                            Office         3     -     -      -     3  4,285.714    4,306.877  12,857.1          ---12,657.1                        12,920.6- 
subtotal Offime Iquirpsent                                                                                                        34,000.0          -                    -34,000.0     34,160.6 
Subto   alquipment (Support for ImPort Promtion Departmnt)                                                                           82. 571.4                    --            02,571.4  82,943.2-
B. TeOh,eel Assistance
I. Foregn Training
Staff Training /a                                           Person         3     3     -      -     6  7,142.857    7.173.571  21,428.6   21,428.6          -         -   42,857.1  21,520.7   21,520.7         -
Study Tours /b                                               Tour          2     2     2      -     6 17,857.143   17.933.929  35,714.3   35,714.3  35,714.3          - 107,142.9   35,867.9   35,867.9  35,867.9
Development of Export Data Base                             Lumpsum                                                            32,000.0    4,000.0   4,000.0          -  40,000.0   32,137.6    4,1.      4,017.2
Subtotal Foreign Training                                                                                                         89,142.9   61,142.9  39,714.3          - 190,000.0   89,526.2   61,405.8  39,805.1
2. National Training
Computer Training for Staff /c                              Number         4     4     -      -     8    428.571      431.057   1,714.3    1,714.3          -         -    3,428.6   1,724.2    1,724.2          -
Training Seminar /d                                         Number         3     3     3      -     9  3,571.429    3,592.143  10,714.3   10,714.3  10,714.3          -  32,142.9   10,776.4   10,77.4   10,776.4
Subtotal National Training                                                                                                        12.428,6   12,428.6  10,714.3          -  35,571.4   12,500.7   12,500.7  10,776.4
3. Trade FaLrs                                                 Number         1     2     2      1     6     60,000       60,276  60,000,0 120,000.0 120,000.0    60,000.0 360,000.0   60,276.0 120,552.0 120,552.0
4. Sh.ort-torm, Contsulta]nt.
Export Promotion SpecilaistIlntl. recruited)              Staff Weel       6     4     2      -    12      8,000      0,034.4  48,000.0   32,000.0  16,000.0          -  96,000.0   48,286.4   32,137.6  16,068.8
Product SpecailLat(Nationally recruited)                  Staff-Week       a     9     6      4    27  1,071.429    1,077.643   8,571.4    9,642.9   6,428.6    4,285.7  26,928.6    8,621.1    9,698.8   6,465.9
Subtotal Short-tarma Consultants                                                                                                  56,571.4   41,642.9  22,428.6    4,285.7 124,928.6   56,827.5   -
S. tong-term Consultant (Nationalily recruited)
Department Director                                       Person-Year      1     1     1   0.5    3.5 18,857,143   16,949.543  18,857.1   18,657.1  19,857.1    9,428.6  66,000,0   18,949.5
Division Head.s                                           Person-Year      2     2     2      1     7 14,571,429   14,642.829  29,142.9   29,142.9  29,142.9   14,571.4 102,000.0   29,285.7
Other Technical Staff                                     Person-Year      4     4     4      2    14  9.428,571    9,474.771  37,714.3   37,714.3  37,714.3   18,857.1 132,000.0   37.899.1
81-Lingual Secretary                                      Person-Year      1     1     1    0.5   3.5  7,142.857    7,177.857   7,142.9    7,142.9   7,142.9    3,571,4  25,000.0    7,177.9
Driver/messenger                                          Person-year      1     1     1   0.5    3.5  4,285.714    4,306.714   4,285.7    4,205.7   4,285.7    2,142.9  15.000,0    4,306.7 ____
C2 Subtotal 1.0mg-teem Consultant (Nationally recruited)                                                                             97,142.9   97,142.9  97,142.9   48,571.4 340,000.0   97,618,9  97,618.9   97,616.9
6,  . Marketing Research                                                                                                                       -                                                         -----       -
Horticultural Nit. Demand Research                          Number         2-    2     2-     - -   6 21.424.571   21,5236,796  42,857-.1 _42,957.1  42,857.1         - 128,57'l.4  43, 073.6  43,073.6  43,073.6
National Manual for export Of Horticultural Products        Number        1I        -      -        1 21,428.571   21,536.786  21,428.6          -          -         -  21,428.6   21,536.8          -         -
ReVlsing the Horticultural Export Manual                    1.umpsum                                                                  -    5,714.3   5,714.3          -   11,428.6         -   5,743.1    5,743.1
Subtotal Marketing Research                                                                                                       64,285.7   48,571.4  48,571.4          - 161,428.6   64,610.4   48,816.7  48,616.7
7. Subscriptions
Market Hews servLce(ITCI                                    Lumpsum                                                             1,200.0    1,200.0    1,200.0         -    3,600.0   1,206.1    1,206.1   1,206.1
Publicity                                                   Lumpsum                                                            21,428.6   12,857.1   8,571.4          -  42,657.1   21,536.8   12,922.1   8,614.7
Other Subscription                                          Lump3um                                                             1,657.1    1,657.1   1,657.1          -   4,971.4    1,665.5    1,665.5   1,665.5
Subtotal Subscriptions                                                                                                            24,285.7   15,714,3  11.428,6          -51,428,6     24,408.4   15.793,6  11,486.3
Subtotal Techical Assistance                                                                                                        403,857.1 396,642.9 350,000.0 112,857.1 1,263,357 405,767.9 398,524.0 351,670.0
Total Investment Coat.                                                                                                                   486,428.6 396,642,9 350,000,0 112,857.1 1.345,929 488,711.2 398,524.0 351,670.0
53. Recurrent Cost.
A. Vehicle Running Cost                                           Lumpsum                                                              9,714.3   9,714,3    9,714,3   9,714.3   389,57,1   9,763.3    9,763.3   9,763.3
B. Oftice RunnLng.Cost                                            Lumpaum                                                            31,428.6   31,428.6  31,428.6   31,428.6 125,714.3   31,592.0   31,592.0  31,592.0
Total Recurrent Coat.                                                                                                                    41,142,9   41,142.9   41,142.9  41,42.9 164,571.4    41.355,3   41,355.3  41,355.3
Total                                                                                                                                     527,571.4 437,785.7 391,142,9 154,000.0 1,510,500 530,066.5 439,879.4 393,025.3
\a The newly assigned staff will be trained by the Geneva based International Service Unit.
\b JEDCO will organize two tours per year for representatives of Exporters association, Cut-Flowers association anid Farmers Union
\c One week training wLl1 be given in computer to the newly created HorticUltural Eport Promotion Depatrtment staff
\d Training seminars will be organized for exporters and farmers of fresh produce.
Sun Jun 02 12:27:20 2002
1-1 Horticultural Export Promotion Component, Sub-component iJEDCO)



HASHNITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Table 2. Horticultural Export Promotion Component: Sub-Component, AMD/MHA
Detailed Costs
Unit Cost
Quantities          Unit Cost Negotiation                  Hase Cost (US$)                          Base Cost - Negotiation (USSI
Unit   2003  2004  2005  2006  Total  (US$)       (US$)      2003     2004      2005      2006     Total     2003      2004      2005      2006
1. Invesa nt Costs
A. Equipment
1. Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive                            Number      1     -     _    _     1 24.285.714  24,391.318  24,285.7        -         -         - 24,265.7  24,391.3
2. Offisc gqupsent
Instalation of Mktg. HIS System /a       Lumpsum                                                      50,000.0  50,000.0        -         - 100,000.0  50,234.1  50,234.1
Photocopier, Scanner, and Fax            Number      1     - I        _     1 8,571.429    8,610.798   8,571.4        -         -         -   9,571.4  8,610.8         -         -
Beaser                                   Number      1     - I         -     1 4,285.714   4,305.399   4,285.7        -         -         -   4,2e5.7   4,305.4        -         -
Laser Color Printer                      Number      1     -     _     _    1 4,285.714    4,305.399   4,285.7        -         -         -   4,286.7   4,305.4        -         -
Laser Black and White Printer            Number      1     -     _     -     1 1,142.857   1,148.106   1,142.9        -         -         -   1,142.9   1,148.1        -         -
CD Writer                                Number      1     -     _     -    1 2,142.857      2,152.7   2,142.9        -         -         -   2,142.9   2.152. 
Soft-Ware for Scan Anlysi.               Number      1     - I        _     1 2,142.857      2,152.7   2,142.9        -         -         -   2,142.9  2,152.7
Software for the Library                 Lumpsum                                                       2,657.1        -         -         -   2,657.1  2,870.3
Subtotal Offiom Equi1-mnt                                                                                75,426.6  50,000.0        -         - 125,428.6  75,779.5  50,234.1
3. Thermal Blankets for Airport             Numbern    14    -     -     -    14    571.429     573.955  8,000.0         -         -        -   8,000.0   8,035.4
Subtotal Zquipmnt                                                                                          107,714.3  50,000.0        -        - 157,714.3 108,206.2  50,234.1
B. Technical Assistancr
1. National Training
Marketing and Price Analysis             Person      2     1     -     -    3    857.143     862.114   1,714.3    857.1         -         -   2,571.4   1,724.2    662.1
2. Foreign Training
Horticultural Product Marketing /b       Person      -     2     -     -    2 31,428.571  31,563.714         - 62,857.1         -         - 62,857.1         - 63,127.4
3. Horticultural Supply Research
Horticultural Supply Capability Studies  Number      2     2     2     -    6 21,428.571  21,536.786  42,857.1  42,57.1  42,857.1        - 128,571.4  43,073.6  43,073.6  43,073
Post Harvest Research                    Number      -     1     -    -     1 22,857.143  22,972.571         - 22,857,1         -         - 22,957.1         - 22,972.6
Post Harvest Atlas                       Number      5    10     5    -    20    357.143     356.946   1,785.7  3,571.4   1,785.7         -   7,142.9  1,794.7   3,589.5   1,794
Standardization Manuals                  Number     10    20    20    -    50     71.429      71.789     714.3  1,428.6  ,1,428.6         -   3,571.4    717.9   1,435.9   1,435
Disk Books                               Number     10    10    10    -    30    214.296     215.368   2,142.9  2,142.9   2,142.9         -   6,428.6  2,153.7   2,153.7   2,153
Color Charts and Ilustrative Manuals     Number     25    25     -     -   50     71.429      71.789   1,785.7  1,785.7         -         -   3,571.4   1,794.7  1,794.7
Feasibility Study for Establish. Mktg HIS Number     I     -     -    -     1      5,000    5,025.25   5,000.0        -         -        -   5,000.0   5,025.3
:      Subtotal Horticultural Supply Research                                                                   54,285.7  74,642.9  48,214.3        - 177,142.9  54,559.9  75,019.8  48,457.6
4. Damnostration and Seminars
Seminars                                 Number      I     1     1     1    4 3,571.429    3,588.929   3,571.4  3,571.4   3,571.4   3,571.4  14,285.7  3,588.9   3,586.9   3,588.9   3,588.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                              59,571.4 141,928.6  51,765.7   3,571.4 256,857.1  59,873.0 142,598.3  52,046.7  3,588.9
Total Investment Costs                                                                                        167,285.7 191,928.6  51,785.7  3,571.4 414,571.4 168,079.2 192,832.4  52,046.7  3,589.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle Running Cost                        Lumpsum                                                      4,857.1   4,857.1   4,857.1   4,657.1  19,428.6  4,681.7   4,881.7   4,681.7   4,681.7
S. Office Running Cost                         Lumpsum     1     1    I     1     4 42.957.143     43,060  42,957.1  42,657.1  42,857,1  42,657.1 171,426.6  43,080.0  43,080.0  43,060.0 43,060.0
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                          47,71413  47,714.3  47,714,3  472714i3 190,657,1  47,961.7  47.961,7  47,961.7 47,961.7
Total                                                                                                          215,000.0 239,642.9  99,500.0  51,285.7 605,428.6 216,040.9 240,794.1 100,008.4  51,550.6
\a HIS would cprise about 18 computers covering 18 work-stations (including the 10 wholesale markets in Amman, Irbid, Zarga, Mafrak, Salt, Karak, Jerash, Tefilla, Aquba, and Ardah) linked to a server at AHD and
also covering the checkpoints, borders and custo
\b Two senior staff will participate in a two month training program.
Sun Jun 02 12:27:21 2002
2-1 Horticultural Export Promotion Component: Sub-Coaponent, AND/MHA



NASNHE4ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promo tion and Technology Transfer Project
Table 3. Support Svs: Deand-rI ven Technology De., and transfer Component.
Detailed Costs
Unit Cost
Quantities           Unit Coat Negotiation                  Base Cost (US$)                          Base Cost - Negotiat
Unit    2003 2004  2005 2006   Total   (US$)       (US$)     2003      2004      2005      2006     Total     2003      2004      2005
I. Inrvtnt Ccsts
A. Equipment
1. Vehicles
4-wheel drive                                       Number       2    -     -     -     2 24,285.714  24,391.318  46,571.4        -         -        - 46,571.4   48,782.6
Double Cabin P/U                                    Number       I    -     -     -     1 18,571.429  18,652.184  18,571.4        -         -        -  18,571.4  18,652.2
Subtotma Vehicls                                                                                                    67,142.9         -         -        -  67,142.9  67,434.8
2. Offioe lqupmint
Computer                                            Number       I     -    -     -     1 1,426.571    1,435.133  1,428.6         -         -         -   1,428.6  1,435.1
Printer                                             Number       1    -     -     _     1    428.571      430.54    426.6         -         -        -     428.6     430.5
Photocopir                                          Number       1    -     -     -     1 3,571.429    3,587.833  3,571.4         -         -        -   3,571.4   3,587.8         -         -
Std Phot-oopir                                      Number       I    _     _           1 1,428.571    1,435.133  1,428.6         -         -        -   1,428.6   1,435.1
Laptop Computers                                    Number      17    -     _     -    17 2,142.857     2,152.7  36,428.6         -         _        - 36,428.6   36,595.9
office Furnitures                                   Number       2    -     _     -     2 2,142.857     2,152.7   4,285.7         -         _    1       4,285.7   4,305.4
Subtotal Offie Equimnt                                                                                              47,571.4         -        _         - 47,571.4   47,789.9
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                    114,714.3         -        -         - 114,714.3 115,224.7        -
B. Agr. Technology Comp. Research Grant/Fund             Lumpsum                                                      185,714.3 214,285.7 328,571.4  50,000.0 778,571.4 166,680.0 215,400.0 330,280.0
C. Technical Asits
1. National Training
Local, Induction Training /a                        Number       I    -     -     _     1 28,571.429  28,715.714  28,571.4        -         -        - 28,571.4 28,715.7           -         -
Workshop for Stakeholders /b                        Number       2    2     2     -     6    857.143     662.114  1,714.3   1,714.3   1,714.3    1       5,142.9   1,724.2   1,724.2   1,724.2
Subtotal National Training                                                                                          30,285.7   1,714.3   1,714.3        - 33,714.3   30,439.9   1,724.2   1,724.2
2. foreign Trainirng
Foreign Study Tour /c                               Number      1     1     1     -     3 21,428.571  21,520.714  21,428.6  21,428.6  21,428.6       - 64,285.7   21,520.7  21,520.7  21,520.7
Training for PMU Staff                             Lumpsum                                                       28,571.4  28,571.4        -         - 57,142.9   28,694.3  28,694.3
Subtotal Foreign Training                                                                                           50,000.0  50,000.0  21,428.6        - 121,428.6  50,215.0  50,2''
3. Technical Meeting
Meeting with Sponsoring Agencies                    Number       6    6     6     3    21    657.143     861.343  5,142.9   5,142.9   5,142.9   2,571.4  18,000.0  5,168.1   5.1
Technical Pannel Meetings                           Number      12   12    12     6    42        350    351.715   4,200.0   4,200.0   4,200.0  2,100.0  14,700.0   4,220.6   4,2
Subtotal Technial Meeting                                                                                            9,342.9   9,342.9   9,342.9  4,671.4  32,700.0   9,388.6  9.:
4. Short-tern Consultants
short term National Consultants /d                  Month        6    8     8     -    24      2,000    2,011.6  16,000.0  16,000.0  16,000.0        - 48,000.0   16,092.8 16,(
External Audit /e                                 Staff-Week    2     2     2     -     6 7,142.857   7,173.571  14,285.7  14,285.7  14,285.7        -  42,857.1  14,347.1  14,
Subtotal Short-tor= Consultants                                                                                     30,285.7  30,285.7  30,285.7        - 90,857.1   30,439.9  30,439.9  30,439.9
Ca) 5 B. Long- tern Consultant (Nationally-recruited)
Senior Technical Transfer Specialist              Staff-Year     1  * 1     1   0.5   3.5 25,714.286  25,863.429  25,714.3  25,714.3  25,714.3  12,857.1  90,000.0  25,863.4  25,863.4  25,863.4
Technology Transfer Specialist /i                 Staff-Year   16    16    16     8    56 9,657.143   9,713.154 154,514.3 154,514.3 154,514.3  77,257.1 540,800.0 155,410.5 155,410.5 155,410.5
Secretary                                         Staff-Year     1    1     1   0.5   3.5      6,000    6,034.8   6,000.0   6,000.0   6,000.0  3,000.0  21,000.0   6,034.8   6,034.8   6,034.8
Drivers                                           Staff-Year    2     2     2     1     7 4,285.714   4,310.571   8,571.4   8,571.4   8,571.4  4,285.7  30,000.0   8,621.1  8,621.1   8,621.1
Subtotal lAng- tarn Consultant (Nationally recruited)                                                              194,800.0 194,800.0 194,800.0  97,400.0 681,800.0 195,929.6 195,929.8 195,929.8
6. Studies
Crop Protocols /g                                   Number       5    6     4     -    15 6,428.571   6,465.857  32,142.9  36,571.4  25,714.3        - 96,428.6   32,329.3  38,795.1  25,863.4
Crop Fact Sheets /h                                 Number.      6   10     -     -    16    257.143    258.634   2,057.1   2,571.4         -        -   4,628.6   2,069.1   2,586.3
Subtotal Studis                                                                                       -    -        34,200.0  41,142.9  25,714.3    1     101,057.1  34,396.4  41,381.5  25,863.4
Subtotal Technical Assistane                                                                                          348,914.3 327,285.7 283,265.7 102,071.4 1,061,557 350,811.7 329,079.1 284,866.8
Total Invetant Costa                                                                                                      649,342.9 541,571.4 611,857.1 152,071.4 1,954,843 652,716.5 544,479.1 615,146.8
II. Reurrent Costs
A. Vehicle Running Cost                                  Lumps-u                                                       13,428.6  13,428.6  13,428.6  13,428.6  53,714.3  13,496.4  13,496.4  13,496.4
B. Office Running Costs                                  Lumpsum      1     1     1     1     4 42,857.143     43,080 -42,857.1  42,857.1  42,857.1  42,857.1 171,428.6  43,080.0  43,080.0  43,080.0
Total RSeurrent Costa                                                                                                      56,285.7  56,285.7  56,285.7  56,285.7 225,142.9  56,576.4  56,576.4  56,576.4
Total                                                                                                                      705,628.6 597,657.1 668,142.9 208,357.1 2,179,986 709,292.9 601,055.5 671,723.2
\a Internationally recruited specialist would be engaged to conduct a 20 days induction training program for TTSs.
\b Yearly two two-daya uorkshops will be organised for exporters, participating farmers and technical staff  to resolve the emerging problems.
\c Each year a 10-person tour will be organired to visit the exporting markets and to learn the wakets demand and code of practice.
\d The project will hire short-term SMS in differnet aspect of horticultural crops to train the the TTSs.
\e To sake an assessment of the technical progress and advise on new development in the exporting markets.
\f The yearly salary includes JD960/year for transportation allowances.
\g Crop protocols contain guides to all aspects of production, harvesting, grading and packing of the 16 important horticultural crops.
\h Each of the 16 S0S keep a crop fact sheet, reflecting information from AND and growers
Sun Jun 02 12:27:22 2002
3-1 Support Svsa Demand-driven Technology Dev. and transfer Component.



hASh'EMITE KINGDOH OF JORD0 N
Horticultural Export Promotion and TcChnology Transfer ProJect
Table 4. Quality Testing and Certification of EXports Produce Component
Detaild Costs
Unit Cost
Quantities           Unit Cost Negotiation                  BaSe Cost (US$)                           Base Cost - Negotiat
Unit    2003  2004  2005 2006  Total    _US$5       (US$_     2003      2004      2005      2006     Total     2003      2004      2005
1. Invstmnt Costs
A. Equapment
1. Office Equispmnt
PC with NindowS2000. Microsoft Office, Envoy Laplink  Number       1    -     -     -     1   2,428.571   2,439.726  2,428.6              -             -   2,426.6   2,439,7
Laser3et Printer                                      Number       I     -    -     -     1   1,571.429   1,578.646  1,571.4         -         -        -   1,571.4   1,578.6
Subtotal Office 9quipaent                                                                                               4,000.0         -         -        -   4,000.0   4,018.4
2. Laboratory Squipsmnt
Lab Sample Homogenizers                               Number       I     -    -     -     1   9,685.714   9,730.202  9,665.7         -         -        -   9,685.7   9,730.2         -         -
Analytical Sample Macerator                           Number       3     -    -     -     3   1,714.286    1,722.16  5,142.9         -         _        -   5.142.9   5,166.5
Automated Evaporator                                  Number       I     -     -    -     1   8,071.429   8,108.501  6,071.4         -                   -   8,071.4  8,108.5
Auto"ated InJector for HP6890                         Number       I     -     -    -     1      11,300  11,351.902  11,300.0        -         _         - 11,300.0  11,351.9         -         -
NP Bench Top LC-MS                                    Number       I    -     -     -     1 129,142.857 129,736.024 129,142.9        -         _        - 129,142.9 129,736.0         -
Varian Saturn GC-ITD                                  Number       1     1    -     -     2     113,000 113,519.021 113,000.0 113,000.0        -        - 226,000.0 113,519.0 113,519.0
Fume Cupboards (operator safetyl                      Number       1    2     -     -     3 11,285.714   11,337.551  11,285.7  22,571.4        -        - 33,857.1   11,337.6  22,675.1
Integrated Management System                          Number       1    -           -     1 80,714.286  81,085.015  80,714.3         -        _         - 80,714.3   81,085.0         -
Heavy Metals Analyzer                                 Number       I    -     -     -     1 242,142.857 243,255.044 242,142.9        -                    242,142.9 243.2550
Subtotal Latsoratory tquipDnt                                                                                         610,465.7 135,571.4         -        - 746,057.1 613,289.7 136,194.1
Subtotal Rqukp-nt                                                                                                        614,405.7 135,571.4        _         - 750,057.1 617,308.1 136,194.1
S. Technical Assistanc
1. Foreign Traisnng
QA. Auditor Training                                Staff-Week     2    -     _     _     2   7,142.857   7,173.571  14,285.7        -         -        - 14,285.7   14,347.1         -        -
Nec Equipment Training                              Staff-Week     -    2     2     -     4   7,142.857   7,173.571        - 14,285.7   14,285.7        - 28,571.4          -  14,347.1  14,347.1
Subtotal Foreign Training                                                                                              14,265.7  14,285.7  14,285.7        - 42,857.1   14,347.1  14,347.1  14,347.1
2. Short-tarm, Consultant (Intl. recruited)
ISO 1725 and Methods                                Staff-Week    6     -     -     -     6       8,000    8,034.4  48,000.0         -        -         -  48,000.0  48,206.4         -        -
Assimilation of New Equip. GLP System               Staff-Week     -     4    -     -     4       8,000     8,034.4        - 32,000.0          -        -   32,000.0        - 32,137.6          -
Terminal Assessment                                 Staff-.Week    -    -     2     -     2       8,000     8,034.4        -         -  16,000.0        -  16,000.0         -         -  16,068.8
Instalation of HRL Database                         Staff- eek     2    -     _     _     2       8,000    8,034.4  16,000.0         -                  -  16,000.0  16,068.8     _
Subtotal Short-teor  Consultant (Intl. reoruited)                                                                      64,000.0  32,000.0  16,000.0        - 112,000.0  64,275.2  32,137.6  16,068.8
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                             76,265.7  46,285.7  30,285.7        - 154,857.1  78,622.3  46,484.7  30,415.9
C. Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation of Formulations Lab                   Lumpoum                                                        57,142.9  14,285.7        -         -  71,428.6  57,452.9  14,363.2       - _
Total                                                                                                                         749,914.3 196,142.9  30,285.7        - 976,342.9 753,383.3 197,042.1  30,415.9
Sun Jun 02 12:27:23 2002
CO
4-1 Quality Testing and Certification of Exports Produce Component



NASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Table S. Project Coordination Unit
Detailed Costs
Unit Cost
Quantities          Unit Cost Negotiation                Base Cost (USS)                         Base Cost - Negotiat
Unit    2003 2004 2005 2006 Total -(US$)          (US$)     2003     2004      2005     2006      Total    2003      2004     2005
I. Investnt Costs
A. Iquipawnt
1. Vehicle
SUV                                             Number       I     -     -    -     1 48,571.429 48,782.636  48,571.4       -         -        - 48,571.4   48,782.6        -        -
Double Cabin                                    Number        1         _    _     1 24,285.714  24,391.318 24,285.7       -         -        - 24,285.7   24,391.3
Subtotal Vehicli                                                                                               72,857.1        -         -        - 72,857.1  73,174.0         -        -
2. Office Equipoent
Computer and Printer                            Number        4    -     -    -     4 2,428.571   2,439.726  9,714.3         -        -        -   9,714.3   9,759.9
Laserjet Printer                                Number        I    -     -    -     1 1,714.286    1,722.16  1,714.3        -         -        -   1,714.3   1,722.2        -        -
Photocopier fax and Scanner                     Number       1     _     _    _     1 8,571.429   8,610.798  8,571.4        -         -        -   8,571.4   8,610.8
Telephone/email                                 Number        4    4     4    2    14 3,426.571   3,444.319  13,714.3  13,714.3  13,714.3  6,657.1  46,000.0  13,777.3  13,777.3  13,777.3
Office Furniture                                Number        4    -     -    -     4      5,000  5,025.552  20,000.0       -         -        - 20,000.0   20,102.2        -        -
Conference and Meeting Roos Furnitures          Number        1    -     -    -     1 8,571.429   0,615.232  8,571.4        -         -        -   6,571.4   8,615.2        -
Subtotal Office Iquipment                                                                                      62,285.7  13,714.3  13,714.3  6,857.1 96,571.4  62,586.6  13,777.3  13,777.3
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                               135,142.9  13,714.3  13,714.3  6,857.1 169,429.6 135,760.5  13,777.3  13,777.3
B. Technical Assistance
1. Long-t-e Consultant(Hationally recruited)
Project Coordinator                           Staff-Year      I    I     1  0.5   3.5 34,295.714  34,453.714  34,285.7  34,285.7  34,285.7  17,142.9 120,000.0  34,453.7  34,453.7  34,453.7
Accountant                                    Staff-Year      1    1     1  0.5   3.5 17,142.857  17,226.857  17,142.9 17,142.9  17,142.9  8,571.4  60,000.0  17,226.9  17,226.9  17,226.9
Procurement Specialist                        Staff-Year     I     I     1  0.5   3.5 17,142.857  17,226.857  17,142.9 17,142.9 17,142.9  8,571.4  60,000.0 17,226.9  17,226.9 17,226.9
Head of Monitoring and Evaluation Unit        Staff-Year      I    I     1   0.5  3.5 17,142.857  17,226.857  17,142.9 17,142.9 17,142.9  8,571.4  60,000.0 17,226.9  17.226.9 17,226.9
Assistant Head of H&E Unit                    Staff-Year      I    I     1   0.5  3.5 10,285.714  10,336.114  10,285.7  10,285.7  10,285.7  5,142.9  36,000.0  10,336.1  10,336.1  10,336.1
bi-lingual Secretary                          Staff-Year      I    I     1  0.5   3.5  8,571.429  8,613.429  6,571.4   8,571.4  8,571.4   4,285.7  30,000.0  8,613.4  8,613.4   8,613.4
Drivers/Messengers                            Staff-Year     2     2     2    1     7 4,285.714   4,306.714  8,571.4   8,571.4  8,571.4   4,285.7  30,000.0  8,613.4  0,613.4  8,613.4
Subtotal Long-tee. Conaultantl(Ntionally reruitsd)                                                            113,142.9 113,142.9 113,142.9  56,571.4 396,000.0 113,697.3 113,697.3 113,697.3
2. Short-term Consultant                         Staff-Month    4     3    3     -    10 4,285.714   4,310.571  17,142.9  12,857.1  12,857.1      - 42,857.1  17,242.3  12,931.7  12,931.7
3. Technical Report
Auditing of the Project Accounts                Number        I    1     1    1     4 5,714.286   5,747.429  5,714.3   5,714.3  5,714.3   5,714.3  22,857.1  5,747.4  5,747.4  5,747.4
4. Technical Meetings
Coordination Committee Meetings                Meetings      6     6     6    3    21 1,285.714   1,292.014  7,714.3   7,714.3  7,714.3   3,857.1  27,000.0  7,752.1  7,752.1  7,752.1
Subtotal Technical Assisa                                                                                        143,714.3 139,428.6 139,428.6  66,142.9 488,714.3 144,439.1 140,128.5 140,128.5
Total Inveasbunt Costs                                                                                               278,857.1 153,142.9 153,142.9  73,000.0 658,142.9 280,199.6 153,905.8 153,905.8
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicles Running Cost                              Lumpsum                      -                         -    14,571.4  14,571.4  14,571.4  14,571.4- 59,285.7 -14,645.0  14,645.0 -14,645.0
B. Office Running Cost                                Lump'sum     4    4     4     4    16 3,571.429      3,590  14,285.7  14,285.7  14,285.7  14,285.7  57,142.9  14,360.0  14,360.0  14,360.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                 28,857.1  28,8517.1  28,857.1  28,857.1 115,428.6  29,005.0  29,005.0  29,005.0
Total                                                                                                                 307,714.3 182,000.0 182,000.0 101,857.1 773,571.4 309,204.6 162,910.8 182,910.8
Sun Jun 02 12:27:24 2002
(0
5-1 Project Coordination Unit



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
- ,-. L, :: i_ocal         .- Foreign        Total' '
a',, ProjectCqst' By .Component          iS ,$lion     US $rmillion  .S $million,
1. Horticultural Export Promotion                          0.00         0.00          0.00
(a) JEDCO Export Promotion                               0.51          1.01         1.52
(b) MOA Marketing Departnent                             0.26         0.35          0.61
2. Strengthening Technology Support Services: Technology   1.51          0.68         2.19
Development and Transfer
3. Quality Testing and Export Certification Services       0.28          0.70         0.98
4. Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit                0.37          0.41         0.78
Total Baseline Cost                                        2.93          3.15         6.08
Physical Contingencies                                    0.08          0.10         0.18
Price Contingencies                                       0.16          0.15         0.31
Total Project Costs               3.17          3.40         6.57
Front-end fee                     0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required               3.17          3.40         6.57
.   Lcal        Foreign,       Total,
Project,Cost,By.Category  ,         -. US $miliorv   US $million.  US $Silion
Equipment                                                    0.44          0.93          1.37
Works                                                        0.06          0.02          0.08
Technical Assistance                                         0.00          0.00          0.00
(a) Capacity Building, Expert Services, and Market          0.47          0.96          1.43
Research
(b) Trade Fairs and Technical Support                       1.27          0.85         2.12
Agric. Technology and Competitive Research GranVFund         0.50          0.33          0.83
Recurrent                                                    0.43          0.31          0.74
Total Project Costs       3.17          3.40          6.57
Front-end fee                     0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required       3.17          3.40          6.57
Identifiable taxes and duties (US$0.22 m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$6.34 million.
Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 78.86% of total project cost net of taxes.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6.6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75.76% of total
project cast net of taxes.
-40 -



Annex 4: Financial Management
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
A preliminary review of the financial management system was carried out for the following institutions
which would be involved with the project: (i) Ministiy of Planning (MOP); (ii) Ministry of Agriculture or
MOA (Department of Plant Protection and Agriculture Marketing Department or AMD); (iii) National
Center for Agriculture Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT), and (iv) Jordan Export
Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO). The review assessed whether these
Governmental institutions and JEDCO have an adequate financial management capacity to implement the
project.
The main characteristics of the financial management systems are as follows:
General Features.
The characteristics of the financial management system common to all agencies are:
* The accounting system is governed by the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. The books are
maintained mnanually, outlining budget components and using the single-entry bookkeeping method or
the cash basis principals.
*  The annual budget is prepared by each Ministry and discussed with the Ministry of Planning and then
with the Ministry of Finance.
*  All projects with international financing are registered in the MOP's annual budget.
*  After the approval of the annual budget, special delegations are issued for its execution, and this
enables each sector Ministry to proceed directly to pay for expenditures.
* Expenditures and payments are subject to three levels of control. In fact, in each Ministry, an internal
auditor, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and a representative of the Audit Bureau are
involved during the approval process and before issuing payments.
*  There is delegation for implementation but payments are centralized.
*  Computerization and implementation of integrated management infornation systems are still underway.
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
The Ministry is managing about six projects with external financing (none with the World Bank).
It has in the past managed a project under World Bank financing, the Agriculture Sector Technical Support
Project (IBRD 3817-JO), which closed on December 31, 2000. A specialized project monitoring is
responsible for the coordination and close supervision of project implementation. For each project, a new
project management unit is created to operate at the national level which is responsible for physical
implementation. However, payments are centralized at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture.
National Center for Agriculture and Technology Transfer (NCARTT)
NCARTT operates under the authority of MOA, however it has financial autonomy and manages
its own budget, including revenues and expenditures. However, payments are centralized at the level of the
Ministry of Agriculture, involving in many cases long delays. Regarding the financial management system,
substantial effort has been considered to improve its capacity.  This would include especially
computerization and implementation of an activity-based costing system.
- 41 -



Financial Management Assessment:
Overview: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be created for project implementation purposes. The
PCU will also be entrusted with the project financial management and will be responsible for maintaining
all financial and accounting records, preparing accounting entries, reviewing and posting, preparing
monthly bank reconciliation, as well as managing all disbursements from World Bank funds. Also, it will
prepare quarterly project financial monitoring reports (FMRs) and the annual project financial statements
and arrange for their auditing by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank. For this purpose, the PCU will
appoint, shortly after signing the loan, a qualified consultant to prepare a financial management manual and
set up a computerized accounting system in order to have an adequate financial management system
acceptable to the Bank by no later than project effectiveness. In the mean time, a full time qualified
accountant will be appointed. Both appointments will be made according to a terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank.
Accounting System: The project accounting practices will follow international accounting standards, which
would be reflected in the accounting policies and procedures in the PCU financial manual. Local
accounting software will be installed for the project and will assist in generating quarterly FMRs. All
accounts and supporting documents will be maintained at the PCU. The consultant will develop a chart of
accounts reflecting project activities.
Internal Control Procedures: The financial management manual will define adequate internal control
procedure and proper segregation of duties among incompatible functions including dual check signatories,
preparation of monthly general ledger closure, and preparing monthly bank reconciliation for all project
bank accounts. All financial transactions incurred directly by any participating agency (e.g., JEDCO) from
its own resources should be pre-approved by the PCU and supporting documents should be sent to the PCU
for verification and recording in the project's accounting records. Reimbursement of such expenditures
from the Special Account to the participating agency should be channeled by the PCU after approval of
expenditures by the PCU. Basically, before the start of each year, every participating agency will prepare
and agree an annual procurement plan with the PCU
Flow of Funds: A Special Account in US Dollars will be established in the Central Bank of Jordan and
solely managed by the PCU (see Annex 6 under "Disbursement" for details on the Special Account).
Replenishment will be made using traditional disbursement methods including direct payment,
replenishment to the Special Account on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation as required. Payments to contractors and third parties from the Special Account will follow
the intemal control procedures stipulated in the financial manual. Project financing provided by the
govemment (through budget allocation arranged by the Ministry of Planning) will be either paid directly to
the contractor based on request from the PCU or transferred to the another PCU project account in local
currency (separate from the US Dollar Special Account) exclusive for the project purposes, and to be
established at a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. JEDCO will pay its commitments directly
to the contractors or transfer the funds to the PCU local currency bank account.
Financial Monitoring Reports: Quarterly FMR will be produced and sent to the Bank unaudited within 45
days of each quarter end. The reports will show (i) summary progress report on project implementation (ii)
cost per component for the quarter and cumulative (iii) costs incurred per expenditures type (iv)
procurements incurred on contracts below the stated threshold. The chart of accounts for the project will
be set up to facilitate the automatic generation of the FMR. These contents and format will be agreed upon
during negotiations. Also, JEDCO will prepare, on a monthly basis, a monthly summary report on its
project related activities showing all project expenditures incurred from its own resources and a summary
-42 -



of physical progress achieved. JEDCO should send this monthly report to the PCU within 15 days after the
end of each month.
Auditing: The project financial statements (project balance sheet, statement of cash flow, and Special
Account statement) will be subject to annual audit under International Standards by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit will cover all
sources of funds related to the project including the World Bank loan. Also, it will cover all expenditures
incurred including those under Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and their compliance with the Loan
agreement. The auditor will issue an opinion on the fairness of the project financial statements and a
separate opinion on the eligibility of all expenditures incurred and claimed under SOFs. The audit report
should be sent to the Bank no later than six months of year-end.
Risks: The financial management risk related to the Project is considered moderate. This consideration was
made with the recognition of no accounting staff on board and yet to be established financial management
system for the project. These risks will be mitigated through (i) allocation of funds for the financial
management consultant and the accountant costs; (ii) having adequate financial management system and
appointment of a qualified accountant as a condition of effectiveness, and (iii) close project supervision by
the Bank team (with about four visits planned in the first year, depending on supervision resources). These
will allow the building of capacity within the PCU for proper implementation. Supervision missions for
subsequent years will be determined based on satisfactory performance in the first year.
-43 -



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Project Schedule n-- C;- '       li -':,- ";"'"''  - Planned  a-=uI 
lime taken to prepare the project (months)      6                          4
First Bank mission (Identiflcation)
Appraisal mission departure                     04/08/2002                 04/08/2002
Negotiations                                    06/10/2002                 06/13/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/10/2003
Prepared by:
The Government of Jordan counterpart team, comprising staffs from the Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Planning, JEDCO, and private sector and the World Bank Task Team.
Preparation assistance:
World Bank BB budget/FAO-CP.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                    Speciality
Tijan M. Sallah, Task Team Leader  Senior Economist, MNSRE
Shawki Barghouti                  Agricultural Research Adviser, RDV
Steven Jaffee, Peer Reviewer      Senior Agribusiness Specialist
Mohammad Usman/Amer Jabarin       Agricultural Economists/Institutional Specialist, Consultants
Alan Legge                        Post-Harvest Technology/Supply Chain Specialist, Consultant
Tesfaye Asfaw                     Export/Trade Promotion Institutional Specialist, Consultant
John Edmunds                      Pesticide Specialist, Consultant
Sherif Arif/Nola Chow, Environment  Regional Environment Coordinator, MNSRE
Reviewer
John Keith Rennie/Meskerem Brhane, Social Scientists, MNSRE
Social Reviewer
Cornelius van der Meer, Peer Reviewer Agribusiness Adviser, RDV
Eija Pehu, Peer Reviewer          Agricultural Adviser, RDV
Andrina Ambrose                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Ayman Abu-Haija                   Financial Management Specialist
Nejdet Al-Salihi                  Procurement Specialist/Principal Irrigation Engineer, Consultant
Petros Aklilu, Sector Manager     Advisor
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Procurement
Or2anization: Procurement activities will be undertaken by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which
will be based in the Ministry of Agriculture and headed by a Project Coordinator (PC), who should have
had previous experience with IBRD-funded projects. Although the Ministry of Agriculture has had
previous expelience with implementing World Bank financed projects, past experience revealed that
procurement capacity would need to be upgraded to expedite project implementation. For this reason, the
PCU would comprise an experienced Procurement Specialist (PS) recruited into the project under a termns
of reference acceptable to IBRD. The PS will be familiar with procurement under Bank-financed
projects and will together with the PC constitute adequate capacity to carry out the small
procurement activities foreseen under the LIL. Establishment of the PCU staffed with a
competent procurement specialist and with an adequate procurement management system would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The PS will be responsible for preparing the procurement
plans for the LIL, with annual plans proposed each year by March 31 and starting from 2003, as
well as for carrying out procurement action.
Consulting services and training:
(i)    Seven consulting services contracts will be awarded under the project, following IBRD
Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants revised dated January 1999:
a) Foreign Training: Using the Quality-Based Selection (QBS) method, four small contracts
will be awarded for training outside Jordan with foreign consulting firms or technical
institutions. The training is for a total of 17 persons for JEDCO, AMD/MOA, svs and 6
sws for quality testing certification.
b) National Training for 23 persons for JEDCO, AMD (MOA) and svs: The selection
process will be based on the Quality-Based Selection (QBS) method.
(ii)   Consultants: (short term): The project provides for international consultation for a total of 39 sws
for JEDCO, 30 sws for svs, 14 sws for Quality Testilg and Certification and 10 smns for the Project
Coordination Unit. These contracts will be awarded as individual foreign short-tern consultants.
(iii)  Consultants (long term): The project provides for national consultants for a total of about
130 sys, comprising for JEDCO (31.5 sys), svs (70 sys), and Project Coordination Unit (28 sys).
These contracts will be awarded as individual national consultants with suitable qualification and
experience.
(iv)   Consultants for carrying out Research and studies for JEDCO    (6 researchers,+ 1
preparation of an Exporters Manual); AMD/MOA (6 studies and 1 research) and svs (production
of 15 crop protocols and 18 crops fact sheets), all of which will be contracted to individual
national consultants based on qualification and experience.
-45-



(v)    Repeated annual small procurement services.  These will include services related to
arrangements and participation in trade fairs (JEDCO : 6 trade fairs), 4 demonstrations and
seminars (AMD/4 seminars MOA), Technical Reports (4 months audits for PCMU) and Technical
Meetings (expenses of project coordination meetings). These will all be procured or paid for
based on individual selection procedures.
Goods and Enuipment: (i) vehicles will all be procured through national shopping procedures
(seven vehicles with a threshold each of US$30,000 and an aggregate of US$210,000); (ii) office
equipment will also be procured through national shopping procedures with a threshold each of
contract amount $30,000 and an aggregate of US$425,000; (iii) services such as telephone and
e-mail charges will have a threshold of US 15,000 annually and US$55,000 in aggregate procured
through a sole source local provider; and (iv) laboratory equipment will be packaged together to
the extent possible and procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for all
contract values above US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$746,000. Under NCB
procedures, the project will use World Bank standard bidding documents and Iniernational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures modified for NCB.
Competitive Research Grant Fund. A competitive research grant fund (CRGF) in agriculture in the
amount of US$626,000 would be available for which national research entities would compete in providing
problem-solving oriented research and technology transfer services to farmers (see Annex 2 on detailed
component description). A Technical Panel in NCARTT would administer the CRGF, and an Operational
Manual would be prepared by the Borrower before effectiveness for the CRGF. The steps for award of the
competitive grant would be as follows: Identification of technical problem facing farmers; a call or request
for research proposals (TOR's, curriculum vitae); screening of proposals (following eligibility guidelines,
such as scientific quality; clarity of work plan; timeliness of completion; relevance, experience of author of
proposal, adequacy of institutional support, and budget); technical review of accepted proposals (scoring
and ranking); award of grants (with limits set on size of grants); evaluation of research results; and transfer
of results to farmers, with monitoring indicators set.
Small work: This small item included for the rehabilitation of the formulation Lab (for the
Quality Testing and Certification Component) and will be procured through a small civil local
contract arrived at by obtaining at least three quotations with the technically acceptable, lowest
price quotation being selected.
Prior Review: All contracts for goods above US$100,000 and the first three contracts
irrespective of the contract amount shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts with
consulting firms above US$100,000 and with individuals above US$50,000 shall be subject to
prior review. All other contracts shall be subject to post review during World Bank supervision
rissions.
-46 -



TABLE A
Procurement Plan
Pckg.No.    Component/Description   Estimated     Procurement       Date of        Date of      Indicative
of Services/Goods     Cost            method         REP/ITB        Award       completion/
(US$)                                                     delivery date
A.
Equipme
nt/Servic
es
A. 1     7 vehicles                176,000    National shopping  Jan. 2003    Mar. 31, 03    May 31, 03
A.2     Office equipment          343,070    National shopping   Feb. 2003    Apr. 2003      Apr., 2004
A.3     Telephone/Email           48,000      Sole Source (annual N.A.        Feb. 2003      June 2006
expenses)
A.4     Laboratory equipment (quality 746,057  National Competitive Jan. 2003  Mar. 2003     June 2003
testing certification)               Bidding (NCB)
A.5
B.
Technica
I
Assistan
ce__         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
B.i
Foreign
Training
B.la   JEDCO (12 persons)        190,000    Quality-Based      Feb. 2003    Apr., 2003     May 2005
Selection (QBS)
B. lb AMD/MOA (2 persons)       62,857     QBS                 Jan. 2004    Apr., 2004    Sep
200
4
SVs (3 persons)           121,428    QBS                 Jan. 2003    Mar. 2003      May 2003
Quality testing certification (6 42,857  QBS             Feb. 2003    Apr., 2003     June 2003
staff weeks)
B.2.
National
Training  __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
B.2a   JEDCO (17 persons)        35,570     QBS                Feb. 2003    Apr. 2003      May 2005
B.2b AMD/MOA (3 persons)        2,789      QBS                 Feb. 2003    March 2003     May 2004
B.2c SVs (3 persons)            33,714     QBS                 March 2003   May 2003       June 2005
B.3
Short
term
Consultat
ion
- 47 -



Internati
onally
Recruited
B.3a   JEDCO (39 s.w.)           124,929    Individual Consultant March 2003  May 2003    June 2006
B.3b SVs (30 s.w.)              90,857     Individual Consultant  Feb. 2003  April 2003    June 2005
B.3c Quality Testing & Certif.  112,000    Individual Consultant March 2003  May 2003      May 2005
B.3d Project Coord. Monit.      42,857     Individual Consultant Jan. 2003  Feb. 2003     June 2005
(1o s.m.)
B.4
Long
term
Consult/s
taff for
Proiect
Unit
(National
ly
recruited)
B.4a   JEDCO (31.5 sy)           340,000    Individual Consultant Jan. 2003  Feb. 2003     June 2006
B.4b S Us (70 sy)               681,800    Individual Consultant Feb. 2003  March 2003     July 2006
B.4c Project Coordin. Monit. Unit 396,000  Individual Consultant Feb. 2003  April 2003     August 2006
(28 sy)
B.5
Research
(6
research
+1
manual)
JEDCO (Market Res.)       161,428    Individual Consultant Jan. 2003  March 2003    June 2006
AMD/MOA Horticultural.    177,143
Sup. Res)
(6 studies + I research + 150                           Feb. 2003     April 2003     May 2005
books/Atlas/Exporter Manual
+ feasibility
SVs (Studies/15 crop protocols 101,057  Individual Consultant Feb. 2003  April 2003  June 2005
& 18 crop fact sheets)
B.6     Repeated Procurements such
as subscriptions,
Demonstrations & Seminars,
studies, Reports, meetings,
Trade Fairs
B.6a   JEDCO (6 Trade Fairs)     360,000    Individual Consultant March 2003  May 2003     May 2006
B.6b AMD/MOA (4 Demonstration +  14,285    Individual Consultant Feb. 2003  April 2003     April 2006
Seminars)
-48 -



B.6c Project Coordination and
Monitoring Unit
( i ) Technical Report    22,857     Individual Consultant Oct. 2003  Dec. 2003     Dec. 2006
(ii ) Technical Meetings  27,000     Individual Consultant Jan. 2003  Feb. 2003     June 2006
(coordination committee
_meetings)
C. CRGF Agricultural Technology    626,000     see para. above on             Apr. 2003      June 2006
Research Grant Fund (CRGF)           ICRGF
D. Civil
Works                                    _
D. I   Quality Testing &        71,488      Simplified NCB    April 2003   June 2003     June 2004
Certification: Rehabilitation  (lump
of Formulation Lab.      sum)
-49 -



Disbursement
To facilitate project implementation and disbursement against eligible expenditures, assurances
would be sought that a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Jordan which would
be operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank. The Special Account would have
an authorized allocation of US$500,000 and maintained in US dollars. The initial advance to the Special
Account will be limited to US$250,000 until the combined total withdrawals and the amounts in special
commitments exceed US$750,000. Thereafter, it will be increased to US$500,000. The Special Account
will be used to finance only eligible expenditures and documentation would need to be maintained to
support all expenditures from the Special Account for purposes of post review and audit. The Special
Account will be periodically replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications, which would be supported
by appropriate documentation.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, using the Special Account, for: (i) services under contracts costing less than (a)
US$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (b) US$50,000 equivalent each for individual
consultants; (ii) equipment and vehicles under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and
(iii) works, grants, and study tours, under such tenns and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure. Category, Amourtint'niUS$milion,,     F'.inancing-Percentag'e.
(1) Equipment and Vehicles                1.07          100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(2) Works (Lab. Rehabilitation)           0.07                  70% of expenditures
(3) Technical Assistance                  0.00
(a) Capacity Building, Expert         1.24                 90% of expenditures
Services, and Market Research
(b) Trade Fairs and Technical        1.49                  80% of expenditures
Support
(4) Agricultural Technology and           0.63                  80% of expenditures
Competitive Research Grant/Fund
(5) Unallocated                           0.45
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total Project Costs                       4.95
Front-end fee         0.05
Total                                     5.00
- 50 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
- 51 -



Annex 7
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Vegetables and Fruits Production, Marketing and Prices
Vegetables and Fruit Production in Jordan Valley: The Jordan Valley produces fruits and
vegetables, but the latter is the dominant crop by far. Although fruit production is slowly expanding,
vegetable production occupies about 16,180 hectares or 40 percent of the total arable land of about 41,480
hectares. The area covered by fruits is about half of that of vegetables. More than 20 percent of the land,
however, is not cultivated due to the lack of irrigation water.
Vegetable crops are produced mainly in the winter both in open field, plastic tunnels, and plastic
houses, while summer vegetables are grown in mainly in open fields. Generally, vegetables are produced
with modem technologies. Four methods of vegetable production are practiced in the Jordan Valley: (i)
traditional basin furrow irrigation and flood irrigation; (ii) raised soil beds irrigated with drip systems; (iii)
plastic tunnels; and (vi) plastic greenhouses. The traditional basin method is gradually disappearing due to
its high water requirement and lower yields. The plastic tunnel and greenhouses have become increasingly
popular because of their water conserving aspects as well as the fact that they provide protection against
pests, such as the white fly, which attacks tomatoes in the early part of the season, and require less
spraying of pesticides. Lately, growing interest has developed on the production of vegetables under green
house conditions, which have also the advantages of plastic tunnels and room for farmers to do on-farm
management with ease. Under greenhouse conditions, horticultural farmers more than double their yield of
certain crops, such as tomatoes, cucumbers, and strawberries using improved seed and cultural practices.
Almost 60 percent of the greenhouses are cropped with cucumber, followed by tomatoes, which is about 20
percent.
As Table 1 below shows, total production of vegetables in Jordan varied from 1.20 to 1.53 million
tons during 1994 to 2000. During the same period, fruits production ranged between 0.45 to 0.66 million
tons. Although vegetable production from the Jordan Valley constitutes about 42 percent of the total
country's production, the Jordan Valley's harvest time, early winter months, gives it a comparative
advantage in exporting markets, especially in European markets, if that window of opportunity would be
properly exploited. Jordan could capitalize on profitable market niches or market window opening for
particular crops when production levels for these crops are low (off-season) within Europe and when
irnports are necessary to meet market demand. The length of the market window openings varies from two
to three and a half months, depending on the crop.
Consumption and Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables: The wholesale markets have continued to be
the major marketing channel for fresh fruits and vegetables in Jordan. Even though most domestically
produced fruits and vegetables are locally consumed, exports of vegetables constituted a sizable share of
the production, varying from 16 to 30 percent, and of fruits, varying from 6 to 23 percent of production,
during 1994 to 2000 (see Table 1). During this same period, export to Arab countries constituted more
than 90 percent of total horticultural exports. Export to non-Arab countries, although steadily growing due
to especially the recent surge in fresh produce demand in Eastem Europe, still remains at a meager 4
percent of total horticultural exports.
From the Valley, generally, fresh fruits and vegetables are shipped to three wholesale markets
(Amman Central, Irbid, and Zarqa) for sale to local retailers, exporters serving the Gulf markets, and
processors. Small and medium farmers transport their produce to their commission agents in the wholesale
- 52 -



markets using small trucks. The commission agents sell to the buyers; and charge the farmers five percent
of the sale price of the fresh produce for the services rendered. The exporters, serving the Gulf markets,
who are generally truck owners, deliver the fresh produce using their large refrigerated trucks. However,
this export arrangement adversely affects the quality of the shipment as the produce is not picked up and
chilled from initial loading point at the farm level. It also burdens the farmers with unnecessary marketing
costs, multiple handling (loading and unloading), and commission charges.
Generally, large farmers either export their products directly to the destination markets or make the
produce ready (packed, graded, and pre-cooled) for the exporters to pick them up from the farm. Most of
these farmers own packing, grading and cooling facilities. These facilities, however, generally are
underutilized as their own production is not of sufficient volume to guarantee full capacity utilization, and
proper arrangement is not in place to accommodate the produce coming from the small farmers. Also, the
exporters serving EU markets, due to insufficient volume or critical mass of produce supply face
difficulties to use less expensive chartered flights, and establish a strong bond with the clients in importing
countries.
To develop the export market, there are three main challenges to overcome. First, to motivate or
catalyze the farmers to organize themselves in marketing groups in order to develop sufficient volume or
"critical mass" for export. Second, to develop appropriate market intelligence and communication linkages
with the destination markets so that growers respond in their production decisions in accordance with the
consumers' demand and tastes. Third, to disseminate to the growers appropriate technical production and
marketing knowledge to be able to enhance the quality of their products and improve marketing efficiency.
With proper market information and technical services, the farmers would be in a position to grow the crop
on the basis of market requirements by species, varieties, quality (taste, size, color and other
specifications), optimum marketing period and yield. Also, the farmers/exporters would be able to make
informed decisions on where to market their products.
Vegetable and Fruit Prices: Obtaining accurate data concerning fruits and vegetable prices and
their marketing margins is a challenging task. So far,in Jordan, there is not a single institution with a
mandate to collect and assemble farmgate, wholesale, and export prices and estimate marketing margins on
a timely and regular basis to be used in marketing decision making. It should be stated that AMO-has, in
the past, assembled and published wholesale prices up-to year 2000. However, the published prices present
average prices without reflecting grading and quality considerations.  Also, the complexity of the
traditional fruits and vegetables marketing networks and the significant seasonality and variations make it
not easy to analyze profit margins between different markets.
Taking into consideration these limitations, the mission calculated farmgate prices (see Table 2)
under three altemative marketing opportunities/options: export to EU markets, export to Gulf markets, and
supply to local markets. Under each option, marketing costs such as packing and grading, transportation,
handling, and commission charges were deducted from ihe final sale price.
B. Economic and Financial Analysis
The project is expected to create a conducive environment for small and medium farmers to
channel their produce toward more profitable export markets in the Gulf and European markets, and for
large farmers/exporters to be able to raise sufficient volume or "critical mass" in order to meet demand
requirements, reduce their marketing costs and establish strong client relationships with buyers in importing
countries. Although the project's main focus group is the participating farmers and exporters, the project
would benefit all horticultural growers and exporters through the upgrading of market information and
- 53 -



intelligence capacity, and the strengthening of quality control and certification facilities and services. Also,
although the project would not provide any marketing infrastructure such as grading, packing and cooling
facilities, it would provide the environment where private investors would be encouraged to undertake such
investments.
The project's overall benefits to the country would accrue from horticultural quality improvement,
improvements in quality control, timely issuance of export certificates, and savings in terms of
transportation cost; however, these benefits are difficult to quantify due to the paucity of data. It has
therefore been conservatively assumed that the project benefits would accrue from the shifts in produce
market destination, i.e., from shifting produce from the local wholesale to the export markets. It was
assumed that the small and medium participating farmers would have an opportunity to make the marketing
shift.
Crop budgets for some important horticultural crops dominant in the cropping system in the
Jordan Valley such as tomatoes, cucumbers, strawberries, green beans, sweet peppers, and grapes were
developed to show the impact of the shift. In developing these crop budgets, it was assumed that: (i) large
tomatoes and cucumber, due to high air freight charges, were assumed not be exported to European
markets but would instead be exported to the Gulf markets; (ii) green beans, sweet peppers, and
strawberries were assumed to be exported to European markets during the winter season from December to
March when there is a unique window of opportunity for Jordanian produce; (iii) under the scenario of
export, 70 percent of the produce would be exported and 30 percent would be sold in local markets; (vi)
the small and medium farmers would upgrade their farming cultural practices to bring the quality of their
produce to be in par with the large growers/exporters; (v) the participating large growers and exporters
would charge the small and medium farmers for their services at 15 percent and 25 percent of farmgate
farm price for export to the Gulf and European markets respectively; and (iv) technical advisory services
or "outreach" would be available for the "outgrower farmers" to assist them in upgrading their farming
practices
Tomatoes, cucumbers, strawberries were assumed to be grown under the condition of plastic
greenhouses, drip irrigation system, fertilizers, and controlled usage of pesticides; green beans were
assumed to be grown under the condition of plastic tunnels, drip irrigation, usage of fertilizers and
pesticides. Grapes were assumed to be grown under furrow(basin irrigation). All variable costs, including
seed, chemical fertilizers, mulch, irrigation water, and labor were deducted from the total revenue in the
derivation of gross margins. Fixed costs were assumed to be that of the depreciation cost of plastic houses,
irrigation system, and working capital interest charges.
Based on the above assumptions and detailed calculation as reflected in tables 3 to 8 further
below, a summary of the findings are shown in the table immediately below:
- 54 -



Net Income Per Dunum, And Gross Margin Per Cubic Meter of Water and
Per Man-Day Of Labor
(in JD)
Green  Sweet
Tomatoes   Cucumber    Beans  Pepper   Strawberries Grapes
Net returns
With the project                    2887        1545       944    2291      1512       614
Without the project                 1442       514        268    909        563        140
Gross margin per cbm. Water
With the project                   6.51       4.33        6.10'  7.44      4.92       0.48
Without the project                3.79       2.24       1.87   3.86      1.84        0.13
Gross margin per man day of labor
With the project                 5.71        3.76       11.32  6.42      2.63        7.96
Without the project              3.53        2.18        3.81  3.57      1.29        2.17
With the appropriate market strategy and by exporting to the EU and Gulf markets, as the table
above shows, the net return for farmers would more than double per dunum (i.e., note that 1 dunum equal
to 0.1 hectare). Similarly, gross margins -per cubic meter of water and per man-day of labor show
substantial increases by shifting to export markets. It should be noted that in the calculation of gross
margins, allowance were not provided for fixed costs and management services. Although the significant
potential benefits that farmers could obtain from export of horticultural products compared to their sale in
the local markets is not in doubt, nevertheless the magnitude of these benefits need to be monitored further
during the course of the project implementation as more up-to-date data become available.
- 55 -



Table I
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Total Horticultural Production, Export, and Statistical Analysis
(production and export In tons)
1994     19       1i9      1997     199      ii       2000
I. Total Production
Tomatoes                                     491000   608000   566000   640000   505000   545000   618000
Cucumber                                      82000    89000    87000   129000   85000    109000   84000
Squash                                        43000    45000    37000    50000   57000    43000    56000
Pepper                                        12000    14000    10000    20000   23000    24000    25000
Green Beans                                   15000    23000    27000   22000     18000    10000    18000
Strawberry
Grapes                                        54000    57000   84000    62000    59000    53000    67000
Total Vegetables                           1350000  1304000  1327000  1365000  1232000  1203000  1529000
Total Fruits                                 456000   447000   548000  476000    614000   482000   659000
I. Export to Arab Coutries
Tomatoes                                     120361   131409   167008   159335   189877   180216   189958
Cucumber                                     23047    29256    25912    29949    27402    26011    30419
Squash                                        9992    16078    12208    15377    17149    13621    15728
Pepper                                        10730    12549    13493    16008   20712     15426    13557
Green Beans                                    4362     7836     6957     9887    14410    8195     7644
Strawberry
Grapes                                         1074      855     908      1003     1051      904     1121
Total Vegetables                             210579   255046   281631   296508   377722   314151   340113
Total Fruits                                 102464    56606    67363    68699    53636    41660    41727
l11. Export to Non-Arab Countries
Tomatoes                                       1484     1549     1881     1162     2279     2011     6606.
Cucumber                                      6668     1109     1399     1277     1384     1551     2048
Squash                                        1888      248      288      224      282      229      303
Pepper                                          544      620     1005      910      647     1575     1943
Green Beans                                     185      399      907      652      574      630      870
Strawberry                                                                   1                28       22
Grapes                                          317      437      383       73      349      217      138
Total Vegetables                               4151     4626     6305     4716     7230     8773    14247
Total Fruits                                   1041      786      645      269      965     1483      476
IV. Total Export
Tomatoes                                     121845   132958   168889   160497   192156   182227   196564
Cucumber                                     29715    30365    27311    31226    28786    27562    32467
Squash                                       11880    16326    12496    15601    17431    13850    16031
Pepper                                        11274    13169    14498    16918    21359    17001    15500
Green Beans                                    4547     8235     7864    10539    14984     8825     8514
Strawberry                                        0        0       0         1        0       28       22
Grapes                                         1391     1292     1291     1076     1400     1121     1259
Total Vegetables                             214730   259672   287936   301224   384952   322924   354360
Total Fruits                                 103505    57392    68008    68968    54601    43143    42203
Statistical analysis (In percent)
Export of Horticultural products as a % of total Prod.  18  18  19       20       24       22       18
Vegetables                                  16       20       22       22       31       27       23
Fruits                                      23       13       12       14        9        9        6
Export to non-Arab Countries
as a percent of total export                 2       2         2        1        2        3        4
Vegetables                                   2       2        2         2        2        3        4
Fruits                                       I       1         1        1        2        3        1
Tomatoes as a Percent ot Total Vegetable Export  57      51       59       53       50       56       55
Source: Agricultural Marketing Organization (AMO), and Dr. Amer S. Jabarin's report.
- 56-



Table 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
Financial and Economic Prices of Selected Veaqtabies and Fruilts
Green                Sweet
Tomatooe Cucumber Beans    Strawberries Peooer   Grapes
Unit
Derived Farmgate Price from EU market
CIF Prices 1/                          US$/Kg        1.07      1.5     2.86         4.5     1.787      3.7
CIF Prices                             JD/Kg         0.76     1.06     2.02         3.19     1.27     2.62
Freight and Insurance                  JD/Kg         0.55     0.55     0.55         0.55     0.55     0.55
FOB Price at Jordanian Airport         JD/Kg         0.21     0.51     1.47         2.64     0.72     2.07
Local Handling and Transportation Charges  JD/Kg     0.02     0.02     0.02         0.02     0.02     0.02
Packing and Packaging Material         JD/Kg         0.11     0.11     0.11         0.20     0.11     0.11
Exporter/Large Farmers Farmgate Price  JD/Kg         0.08     0.38     1.34         2.42     0.59     1.94
Exporter and Trader Margin 2/          JD/Kg         0.02     0.10     0.34         0.60     0.15     0.48
Small and Medium farmers Price         JD/Kg
at Farmgate                            JD/Kg         0.06     0.29     1.01        1.81     0.44      1.45
Derived Farmgate Price from Gulf markets
CIF Prices 2/                          US$/Kg        1.04     1.00      1.24        2.27     1.15      1.5
CIF Prices                             JD/Kg        0.736    0.708    0.878        1.607    0.814    1.062
Transportation cost to the GULF Market 3/  JD/Kg    0.230    0.230    0.230        0.230    0.230    0.230
FOB Price at Jordanian Airport         JD/Kg        0.506    0.478    0.648        1.377    0.584    0.832
Local Handling and Transportation Charges  JD/Kg     0.02     0.02     0.02         0.02     0.02     0.02
Packing and Packaging Material         JD/Kg         0.11     0.11     0.11         0.11     0.11     0.11
Large Farmers/ Trader price            JD/Kg
at Farmgate                           JD/Kg        0.376    0.348    0.518       1.247    0.454     0.702
Exporter and Trader Margin 5/          JD/Kg        0.056    0.052    0.078        0.187    0.068    0.105
Small and Medium farmers Price         JD/Kg
at Farmgate                            JD/Kg        0.320    0.296    0.440        1.060    0.386    0.597
Derived Farmgate Price from Domestic
Wholesale Market Price 6/                            0.22     0.22      0.37        1.33     0.27     0.55
Commission fees 7/                                  0.006    0.013    0.023        0.08     0.013     0.02
Municipality Charges 8/                            0.005    0.011     0.018        0.06    0.011    0.016
Packing and packaging Material                      0.01    0.007    0.024         0.06    0.016     0.03
Transportation Charges                               0.01    0.013     0.011       0.013    0.007     0.01
Farmgate Price                                       0.20     0.18     0.32         1.18     0.24     0.50
1/ The CIF prices represent average prices In UK from November to February for tomato, cucumber, srawberries. and for grapes
from mid-May to the end of June as during the stated period Jordan's' horticultural product poses a window of opportunity.
2/. Assumed to be 25 percent of the the price received by the large farmers/traders.
3/ The mission obtained the CIF export price in the Gulf from individual exporters
4/ Horticultural crops are shipped to the Gulf markets via refrigerated trucks, the average truck load amounts to 1700 boxes.
(7 to 8kg per box), average charges per truck load reported to be JD3 200.
5/ Exporter and traders service margin assumed to be 15% of the large farmers/exporters farrmgate prices
6/ Average wholesale price In Oman Wholesale Market.
7/ The sale agents In the wholesale market receive 5 percent of the wholesale price for their services.
8/ There is a 4 percent Greater Oman municipality levy on the sale of horticultural products.
- 57 -



nSarm _          r  N
Homticultuxul eD t P         an T*'     Tgapsfmw Project
MpP    pt- data, grorzin a net rebmns Per d== fXW
in the mz: .a    RUt V&11W I/ 2/
I___________ _V__  Wththeoiect 3Y  Wthout Rh ectY
DLfirdn   Ut       ID     3D      Uit       ot      3D
5qi oreIdt DGfa r(7Wokg                    iLE     0.=     SWIX)  140M i    0.M (xoa
Sodatlrrscmre                             4M       02      900 soas 
l(JIALEaUTr                         D                      426000 7                  ZM   2oa
UA~FBUSIO                                  Wm      0.01     591    5371)o   0oi1     5.91
5          Om       Om     14.25   oms      a        14.;5
Di     110     &CtX)    &LO 1i  'LO- 8am
MWUre - Ferooo                             .6=  amo8       48100   6.000    aooo 4s    m
Tdal d'Weliad fiedr                 1                       817                     sLs7
-N                ~kg                     33300   a440    14.74   33500    0.440    14.74
- P205                             1k     69jOO    a770    53.13   69.0mo    770    s53.
- Kao                              kg      MOOD    0.70m   1400    21Coo     7W0     14.00
- Mir daTo                          QoO                                               omo
PeOddes                   ~~~~~~Di  L ODO  25D.000  25Loo _LOOD    25a00D   2saxD
Di     1.U17.000  L120I  23W0   17.000  -2: 2-a40
s3zd raft*ry                        JD                      735                       73)
lard pleparaborl          1r     11)3)   333)     33)     11)3)    3300     350
SUAW plar"          tr                      OLOO~~~~~~0.              0.01)
- h1bary                           tr     11m     4.mo     400    ilmo     4.000    4.00
Lao ;re wimmls:                     ID    670.0D-0         a33500  67m               335.00
- fbrlardepado                   rwfD    140.O   709m      70      0410)   7792    746.
-M /     lr                       neft   2aamm    0asm     1Qa     2aDm     05o      lom
- huy                    ~~~~~~~~~~~nEa  mam  asm  ssm    190a00    am       ssm
- ________                        au                        5.7 320 O  05m  16o       3. 530 160M
1TIAL VARPALUXOS1                D-T                       77937x=3
GE     WM^RI (EC OJPJ35             D                      3489,07 ,2n2s.07
kici
- Dqxeadc:X*9kft&ddp)              DLJ    1.00   s4amoo   540.00  imo      540M 540M
-r zelw=vw                         JD      OBBO   77a927   6L7     ao060   770927    46S5
lUrALOwST                          ID132 0                                              7s
IGL5'N/corn k4 viaber     D     /      6t                    51                       37
G   N9AG /rmn d                   Nralv                     5.71                      35a
2/Ror ccurx#eo3J r  dn tp iri br~fisENe En fof peobdd3ind dxrAl f*ff^ardhligh yi &%a
y ute wffist  dyo  et s aarred tht7G%/o'fthepoeis eptad tD GJPmrkar dthe eTEgk   30yO S93d hthe bal
Wseiemaiu,arK uidErfthe Eg f dwitpo) dalthe Xuscis hthekxbmS nEs
9Sww, Lfiwn k: ]erte Al 1995, nR,6W   DM* Fa rm GM Maghs NM  B Ne Plurs and  Rn OWOn CfirEa PQm
in the IRV
-58 -



* -    -_     . L- - .   --  .I
~~~~~IL~~~~~~~~~~~L
II,                    .           iIj . | S g mSS!  I M CC llSl's  ME  _ _ _  {
II~        r2 a X 
F2M   11t   S             II   I |    ii        E
IS               ful I 1I                       II il 
i _ i  l  i      i_  ___ 1   119    ef



Hm*ubM BqntanmtPn andTahkgTIOp-ject
kIzpiauipdt4gromvnw and netreiai Percmn farGreQbea
inthe Nathun id   MtVa__                                _
I__   Wth ths Pd ct3         ____Wthout the Rc ectY       I
RPe JD                            IS     1iCJ
Ddohdn    LUit       Unit    JD     DefiUtin  Ur*t   Uit    JD
BportBd tD EU nif(70% of paWm)                 98.0   --0
Sold at doi i  mI4                             4210      032     134.40          14(0    032    448W
TcrlUltCUTI D_                                                                                   2 H 448M
VMH                                   rr?     160       O.011     16.7   mrn3   16QL00   ao01  L176
9dd/bl~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                 5.000     3.600    iato0          5.000   3.600  18.00
SeEbrsir                              Du                          0.00    Du                  --w
!are  - Fetf                                   2.000    8.00     16zmo    rr3    2000    &COD   160
Tot denca fEb                                                    24.17     g                    24.17
- N                                   I1      1aoco     0.450    450      Ig     101D    0.450   450
- P20s                                1        ZL 2000  0770     1617     Ig     2L000   a770   1617
- QC)                                 kg       smo       W7o      350     19     5000    0.70    35C
Peiddes                               D        1.00     20-MX    2MO      DU     1.0    201000  20(00
rMkh                                  kg      17.00     1.213    240     i       17      1.     20.40
Ccts dO maita                         JD                         5.03     JD                     5.C0J
- lad prcn                            IT       1.111    31)       3.50     l     L)     331     350
I-T                        aoo )    IT                   aQ
-   h'Aaxiv                           It       1=        1.31)    150     IT      1.000  1531    150
Labor 8.haTfB1S                   JD       90M.              45.0X    JD     g0u0m           4511)
- ftrbnd pW i                        nwV*r     Q10MD     aso      5.00   nia-    10.000  05DD    5.11
- sAir /  lrg                        nr        101a1)o  0as0)    5.1     nwV     lo0n    0500 3  s i
- hbal                               MT        zsmoL25.000  03    1250   mT      25.000  O03)    1250
- ha>l9mfS 4 45.WO  051)   2m50     m3l     45.m1)  05)     2250
157MA    M-vSI^Ss                     JD                         L5D33    J= I53
WGS MORU    ( G MCUTRJ-kUT)           J                           73 D                          297fi7
- D6edatreWasO; fm & drip)            Di       1OO1)    1DW7     17.0     Dti    1.W     17.Du)m  17.00
- komest on =   avw                   JD   Q   03 0     150330   1203     JD     OQO     150330  12.03
isr>Leibl                   ~~~~~~~~~~D 179-36                 .1D   I173
I>ErRElUES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9, D                   13 JD   I                25
/br dMg iGw        1m                                   b610  ID dmL LB
/Im (by~~f                                                   111>132  3D)/1wST -3r
:V Crecdn ie e tod t Oihct,
21 PnxLF uxlrtlearnhofdrip  i orplsictunels ien an a  'mffi , ^ adhehe0kfrwien
3/UrdErte di  f wfihpujdt sarAidtta700/o of te prbei OatD te BJ naEaz, ardtte mTEit 3(P/ isb  ht te baS
w*eae rr&, aid rder d tte   of 0s   ppadr al tte prode r6 sold r the bcal maIk
Sourm   from Jar, eL clB 1995,'n Altd Raj±, Fm Gi May br. FsmT Net
Frrj  " Fsrm pfirr   oPauas  ie>n theD W.
0- - -



1~~~~~~~z -         LO 'EW_E  EE 
gir~~~~~~~~~~~~-
e   81 8itsE 8 v8 REE 8E>  8888I 8# r  & __   t
-, _  ____   __ _  ___  .  .1  - 
__      __ h_       -   l iit * |  i     4-
-4-4  ~~~~~~~~-4d           Co~~~~~A
~~~~~  _____~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~b 1
Cd~   ii
till
I       I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Table 7
KASHEMIT KINGDOM OF JORWWN
Hortfatural Export Pn1on and Tedmoogy Trnser Pojec
Input-output data grms nwmin and net retunm Per dunun for Sbawbenies
In the Northern Jondan Rift Valey I/ 2V
Wt h the Proj ect 3/         _       _        Wt hout t he Pr olect 3/
Unt                        Prke ID         TOrAL                        PnceJD      TIrAL
Definition      Unit:         Unit             ID             Unit         Unit:         JD
Exported to Gulf market (70% of production)      kg          1617.0         181            2926.77                                    0.00
Sold at domesfc market                           kg          693.0          1.18           817.74          2310.0        118        2725.80
TUrOAb GROSS OUTPur                            DJ                                         3744.51                                    2725.8s
Water reauirernents                                         308.000        0.011            3.39          308.000        0.011        3.39
Seedlinrzs              _                    Thousand        &000         100.000          800.00          8.000       100.000       800.00
Seed transplanting    _    <                    Du           0.000         0.000            0.00           0.000        0.000         0.00
!1anure - Fterfflrzerl                      ---Mr            6.000         8o000           48.00           6.000         o000         48.00
Total chemnical ferfflizer                      kg                                         123.98                                    123.98
- N                                            kg          33.500         0.480           16.08          33.500        0.480        16.08
- P205                                         kg          70.000         0.770           53.90          70.000        0.770        53.90
-ao x2kg                                                   20.000         0.700           14.00          20000         0.700        14.00
Micro elerents                                 kg          4.000         10.000           40.00          4000          10.000       40.00
Pesffcides                                      Du           1.000        209.000          209.00          1o000        209o000       209.00
Mulch                                           kg          17.000         1.200           20.40          17.000-        1200         20.40
Costs of machinery                              ID                                          7.50                                       7.50
land preparation                               hr          1.000          3.500           3.50           1000          3500          3.50
- sowing / plandng                               hr                                         0.00                                       0.00
hshubandry                                     hr          1.000          4000            4.00            1000         4000          4.00
Labor requirenments:                             JD         710.000                        355.00         710.000                     355.00
for land preparation                         man/hr        140.000        0.s00           70.00          140.000       0.s00         70.00
- swdng / planting                             man/hr        20.000         0500            10.00          20.000        0.500         10.00
- husbandry                                    man/hr       200.000         0.500           100.0         200.000        0.500        100.00
- harvesfng                                    man/hr       350.000         0500            175.00        350.000        0500         175.00
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTSI D                                                                    1567.27                                   1567.27
GROS  MARGN (GR1)SS 0U`TPUT-V.OOSTS)            J     _                                    2177.24                                   1158.53
ixoed Gosts:
- Depreciation(plastc, frame & drip)             Du          1.000         540.000         540.00           1.00o       540.000       540.00
- Interest on working capil                      JD          0.080        1567.268          125.38         0.035        1567.268      54.85
TOTAL FD_ED OOSTS                               JD                                         665.38                                     594.85
TOTAL OO;T                                      JD                                         2232.6s                                   2162.12
[NET RETURNS                                    JD                                         1511.86                                   563.68
RErURNS / cbrn Irrig. waber                   JD/ cbm                                       492                                        184
_REURNS /man day                             JD/man.hr                                      2.63     -                                 129
V one dunum is equal to 0.1 hectare.
2/ Produoed under the oDnditon of drip Irrigation system, pbsffc greenhousing, intensrve application of chemnical fertilizer, and high yielding
variety.
3/ Under the sitation of with project it is assumed that 70% of the produce is exported to EU markets and the renmaining 30% is sold In the local
wholesale markets, anr under the sitation of wlthout project all the produce Is sold In the local markets
Source: Updated from: Jabann, et. al, 1995," Production, Productivity, Farmn Gross Margins, Farm Net
Returns and Farm Optimization of Resources in the JRV'.
- 62 -



8  i  I                , I _  E  _I 8E
A   i -   2         _ _ Ca  1   M   a C_   _  _
| ] i 9 | r ~ R E M g S g E E M g S El E g M E  | S _ _ _ _   _ }
AO 1  1;41                   d.''i



Annex 7
EURO-MEDITERRANEAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EU AND JORDAN
The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States
(henceforth called the EU) and Jordan, establishing an Association between both parties, was signed on
October 31, 1997. In the context of agricultural trade between both parties, the aim of the Agreement is to
gradually implement greater liberalization of their reciprocal trade in agricultural products.
Specifically, under Protocol No. 1, the following provisions were agreed on the irnportation into the
EU of agricultural products originating in Jordan:
Description               Reduction of the duty   Quota volume (tonnes)     Reduction of the duty
beyond the current or
p ossible quota
New potatoes                       100 %                     1 000
I January-31 March
Tomatoes 01.12-31.03               100 %                                               60 %
Onions and shallots                100 %
01.02-30.04
Garlic 01.02-31.05                 100 %                                              50 %
Cabbage lettuce                    100 %                     200
01.11-31.03
Carrots 01.01-31.03                100 %
Cucumbers 10.11-end 02             100 %
Beans 1.11-30.04                   100 %                                               60 %
Asparagus 1.10-31.03               100 %                      100
Aubergines 01.12-30.04             100 %                                               60 %
Celery 01.01-31.03                 100 %
Sweet peppers 15.11-30.04          100 %                                               40 %
Capsicum or pimenta                100 %
Courgettes 01.12-15.03             100 %                                               60 %
Parsley 01.11-31.05                100 %
Molochia                           100 %
Okra                               100 %
Dates                              100 %
Figs 20.05-01.09                   40 %
Mangoes and guavas                 40 %
Oranges, fresh                     100 %                                               60 %
Mandarines, fresh                  100 %                     1 000                     60 %
Lemons, fresh                      100 %                     1 000                     40 %
Graefruit                          100 %                                               80 %
Table grapes 01.02-11.07           100 %
Melons <600g 01.11-31.05           100 %
Watermelons, fresh                 100 %
01.04-15.06
Strawberries 01.01-31.03           100 %                      100
Pomegranate 01.08-30.09            100 %
- 64 -



Annex 7
PROJECT TERMS OF REFERENCES
Horticultural ExPort Promotion Component:
Terms of Reference of Director - Horticultural Export Promotion Department
The Director of the Horticultural Export Promotion Department is accountable to Director General of
JEDCO. He/she will assume responsibility for the overall management and technical leadership of the
Department and the two Divisions comprising it: namely, the Division for Export Promotion Services and
the Division for Research and Studies. The Director shall perform the following functions of the
Department:
1. Ensure that the "client-first mind-set" prevails in all dealings of the Department's staff with exporters
and producers of fresh produce.
2. In the interest of providing demand driven services to exporters and producers and achieving clarity of
functions between the two Divisions, maintain the perspective of service recipient (Division of Export
Promotion Services) and service provider (Division of Research and Studies) in their working
relationships. The Division of Export Promotion Services represents the marketing function of the
Department's services while the Research and Studies represents the production function.
3. Prepare a three-year plan in close consultation with the Division Heads for Export Promotion Services
and Research and Studies.
4. Maintain close links with such principal stakeholders as the Jordan Exporters and Producers
Association for Fruits and Vegetables (JEPAFV), the Cut-flowers Association and the Farmers Union
and determine their service needs with a view to building their capacity to a level where they can
interact effectively with the Department and importers of their produce.
5. Organize marketing missions, study tours, product and contact promotion programs at carefully timed
intervals in selected target markets aimed at securing export orders.
6. Maintain a close watch on the calendar of activities of trade fair activities relevant to the horticultural
produce to be promoted and markets to penetrated and make advance preparation for participation.
7. Receive in-coming trade missions and plan the logistics of their visit in close cooperation with the
concerned associations.
8. Assemble a core group of exporters and producers of horticultural produce destined for export and
other stakeholders capable of providing feedback on a regular basis on the services provided by the
Department and how they could be improved to serve the sector better.
9. Identify the service needs of exporters and producers and organize training events to address gaps in
export awareness and to keep abreast of developments. The training should include exporters,
producers, traders and agribusiness managers.
10. In close consultation with the Director General, organize the forum for Government and representatives
and the private sector to come together and discuss key policy issues requiring remedial action that
culminate in removing restrictive practices. Promote coordination between the private and public sector
institutions to support the development of high-value horticultural produce.
11. Coordinate the preparation of a comprehensive maniual that would serve as a guide to exporters and
producers of horticultural produce.
12. Oversee the development of the export data base that JEDCO is planning to set up and ensure that it
provides comprehensive information and can be readily accessed by importers abroad and exporters
and producers in Jordan.
13. With the involvement of the Computer Center of JEDCO, coordinate the setting up of a trade
information service (TIS) unit that responds to the identified needs of exporters and producers.
- 65-



14. Mobilize efforts for the formulation of a coherent export development strategy that provides the context
against which to interpret results achieved by the sector.
15. Evaluate the performance of the Division heads and submit the results to the Director General of
JEDCO.
16. In close consultation with the Director General, organize annual events to assess overall export
performance of the sector and to honor /confer recognition on best export performance.
Qualifications and experience required:
* Bachelor Degree or higher in the field of marketing, business administration or economics.
* Ten years experience in international trade and in-depth knowledge of trade promotion and export
development, preferably in relation to the horticulture sector.
Languages:
Excellent knowledge of English is essential; knowledge of Arabic is an advantage.
TOR of Head Division for Exnort Promotion Services
The Head of the Division for Export Promotion Services is accountable to the Director of Horticultural
Export Promotion Department. The Division is responsible for the "marketing" function of the
Department's services, while the Research and Studies Division is responsible for the "production"
function. Put another way, the Research and Studies Division supplies services in response to the demands
of its client - the Export Promotion Services Division. Maintaining the service recipient and service
provider perspective is paramount in achieving clarity of functions and the provision of demand driven
services. The Head performs the following functions of the Division:
1. As the marketing arn of the Department, ensure that the client-first mind-set characterizes the
Division's services to exporters and producers.
2. Prepare annual plans of the Division and submit it to the Departmnent Director for his incorporation.
3. Coordinate with the Research and Studies Division to undertake need analysis of the sector and
structure the portfolio of its services to respond to the identified needs.
4. Under the supervision of the Director of the Department and in cooperation with the Computer Center
of JEDCO, assist in setting a trade information service (TIS) unit that will provide electronically and
otherwise such information as product profiles, market profiles, local and international trade fairs,
supply and demand situations, trade statistics, business opportunities, etc.
5. Ensure that each Product Cluster Specialist is assigned a cluster of products and is intimately familiar
with the characteristics of the produce under his/her domain and is sufficiently equipped to provide all
the necessary guidance and support to exporters on such subjects as export procedures, quality
standards, packaging requirements, costing and pricing, marketing techniques etc.
6. Provide guidance to Product Cluster Specialists to regularly touch base with exporters or producers of
the produce in his/her charge with a view to offering services, becoming familiar with the problems
being encountered by them or to keep abreast of developments.
7. In close consultation with the Director, organize trade fairs and exhibitions and provide facilitation to
participants.
8. Through the Division of Research and Studies, arrange demand/market surveys to be conducted and
use the survey results for devising marketing strategies.
9. Under the guidance of the Director, make advance preparation for launching marketing missions, study
tours, product and contact promotion programs at carefully aimed intervals in selected target markets
- 66 -



aimed at securing export orders.
10. Under the guidance of the Director, receive in-coming missions and plan the logistics of their visit in
cooperation with exporters and producers associations.
11. Organize training events, counseling services and export awareness workshops.
12. According to the annual plans and when directed by the Director, disseminate trade information,
business opportunities and market research outputs to exporters and producers via the most effective
media.
13. Participate in activities requiring joining forces with the Division of Research and Studies; such as in
the preparation of manuals and guides to exporters, newsletters, identifying relevant information
sources or conducting studies.
14. Evaluate the performance of Product Cluster Specialists and submit the result to the Director of the
Department.
Qualifications and experience required:
University degree in marketing, business management or economics.
Seven years experience in international trade and in-depth knowledge of trade promotion and export
development
Languages:
Excellent knowledge of English is essential; knowledge of Arabic is an advantage.
TOR of Division Head for Research and Studies
The Division Head for Research and Studies is accountable to the Director of Horticultural Export
Promotion Department. The Division is responsible for the "production" function of the Department's
services, while the Division for Export Promotion Services is responsible for the "marketing" function.
Put another way, the Research and Studies Division supplies services in response to the demands of its
client - the Export Promotion Services Division. Maintaining the service recipient and service provider
perspective in the relationship of the two Divisions is paramount in achieving clarity of functions and the
provision of demand driven services. The Head of the Division for Research and Studies performs the
following functions of the Division:
1. Based on the request of the Export Promotion Services (EPS) Division, conduct need assessment
surveys that will help the EPS to structure the portfolio of services that are most responsive to the
identified needs.
2. Prepare the annual plan of the Division and submit it to the Director of the Department for
incorporation into the Department's annual plan.
3. Conduct demand/market surveys on the request of EPS Division, the results of which will be used as
input to formulate marketing strategies.
4. In close consultation with the EPS Division, conduct research to identify export-marketing constraints
in Jordan that could adversely affect export performance and that could serve as the basis for
private-public sector discussions which could culminate in the elimination of the constraints.
5. In the export database that would be developed within the Department, in conjunction with the EPS
Division, assist in the maintenance of company profiles of exporters, market profiles of the target
markets, and product profiles of the produce being promoted. Also provide appropriate input to the
website under construction to enable the provision of comprehensive trade information that can be
-67-



readily accessed by importers abroad and exporters and producers in Jordan.
6. In conjunction with the EPS Division, identify relevant trade information sources and make reliable
arrangements to tap into such sources as the ITC's Market News Service (MNS), COLEACP and
others.
7. In coordination with the EPS Division, stock up JEDCO's trade library with publication, specialized
trade journals and studies relevant to the horticulture sector.
8. Under the supervision of the Director of the Department and in cooperation with the Computer Center
of JEDCO, set up a trade information service (TIS) unit, that will provide electronically and otherwise
such information as product profiles, market profiles, local and international trade fairs, supply and
demand situations, trade statistics, business opportunities, etc.
9. Under the guidance of the Director of the Department and in conjunction with the EPS Division,
administer questionnaires at agreed and appropriate intervals to exporters and producers with regard to
the quality of services they receive from the Department.
10. Evaluate the performance of the Division's staff and submit the result to the Director of the
department.
Qualifications and experience required:
University degree in marketing, business administration or economics.
Seven years experience in international trade and in-depth knowledge of trade promotion and export
development.
Languages:
Excellent knowledge of English is essential; knowledge of Arabic is an advantage.
TOR of the Advisor to the Director of the Horticultural Export Promotion Department
The advisor that would be assigned to advise the Director of the Horticultural Export Promotion
Department for six weeks, four weeks and two weeks in the first, second and third year respectively shall
provide substantive advice in matters relating to export promotion of horticultural produce, particularly
with respect to promotional and capacity building functions of the Department. They consist of advising
the Director:
1. In the articulation of strategic plans for the Department relating to the promotion of the core products
in its charge; namely fruits, vegetables, and cut-flowers and in mapping out the steps to achieve them,
developing work-plans and the corresponding budgets for the medium term.
2. On how to organize the Department for the provision of timely and efficient across- the- counter
service for walk-in requests from exporters that are of a generic nature and for those requiring
customized responses due to the peculiar nature of their circumstances.
3. To set up a trade infornation provision capacity or trade information service (TIS) unit that focuses on
market information and intelligence relating to the core products falling in the domain of the
Department.
4. On how to provide advisory services to exporters in matters relating to export awareness raising,
formulating export strategies and techniques, costing and pricing, export procedures, market research,
quality standards etc.
5. On how to develop terms of reference (TORs) for the activities in the budget that require TORs, such
as: training abroad, study tours, development of export data base, publicity campaigns, guide to
- 68 -



exporters, and the various demand studies to be conducted.
6. On evaluating the outcome of marlceting missions, trade fairs and exhibitions, study tours etc.
7. On how effectively to utilize JEDCO's trade promotion offices abroad, on conducting marketing
research, researching key policy issues or other constraints impacting exporters of horticultural
produce.
8. On maintaining effective collaboration and cooperation with exporters and producers associations and
how to gauge their perception of the Department's performance.
9. On assessing the performance of the Department's staff, planning staff development and upgrading
their skill at measured intervals to keep them abreast of developments in their areas of specialization.
10. On how to monitor and assess progress in implementation of planned activities and prepare progress
reports and documentation for review meetings and project evaluation purposes.
11. On how to maintain effective collaboration and smooth implementation of project activities with the
Project Coordination Unit (PCUJ), and the other two components of the Project; namely the Export
Support Services and Systems and Quality Control and Certification of Export Produce.
Qualifications and experience required:
University degree at the advanced level in Business Administration, International Trade or Economics.
Ten years experience in intemational trade and in-depth knowledge of trade promotion and export
development, preferably in the horticultural sector.
Proven experience in the planning, implementation and management of technical cooperation projects.
Proven experience in capacity building and human resource development in developing countries.
Familiarity with World Bank or United Nations procedures desirable.
Languages:
Excellent knowledge of English is essential, knowledge of Arabic is an advantage.
Other Documents in Project File (henceforth to be printed as Project Technical Annex):
- Working Paper on Export Promotion Component, by Tesfaye Asfaw
- Working Paper on Supply Chain and System Component/Support Services, Outgrower Contract, etc., by
Alan Legge
- Working Paper on Quality Appraisal and Certification of Exports Component, by John W. Edmunds
- 69 -



SuDDort Services and System Component:
Terms of reference - Senior Technology Transfer Specialist
Note:   Throughout the Terms of Reference in this report, please read "he" as "he/she", as gender
neutrality is intended.
This post-holder will lead the team of technology transfer specialists being set up under the Pilot Study.
He will work in three areas:-
-  The training of his staff
- The training of medium- and small-size growers - field work
-  Office liaison with:- the Plant Protection Dept.
Ministry of Agriculture
Agricultural Export Promotion Unit
N.C.A.R.T.T.
Grower Organisations
External Specialists
-  He will be a member of The Problem Management Unit.
-  He will direct and organize the recruitment and training of the second and subsequent intakes of T/T
Specialists, and the specialists who will be recruited on short-term contracts to deliver training.
-  He will ensure the timely delivery of a program of technology transfer modules, protocols and fact
sheets to medium/small contracted outgrowers.
-  He will ensure that the products of the Ag Ex Prom Unit are delivered to, and understood by, the
outgrowers.
-  He will monitor specified markers, which will assist the measurement of the success of the Pilot.
-  He will prepare brief quarterly activity and progress reports to be sent to the Pilot's sponsors - the
Project Co-ordination Unit
- Minister of Agriculture
- Minister of Planning
- Minister of Finance
- Director-General of Finance
- Country Officer/Project Leader, World Bank
- He will collaborate with external specialists in any annual review of the Pilot.
Candidate Profile-Senior Technology Transfer Specialist, Head of T/T Specialist Group.
Academic Qualifications - either an M.Sc. plus 15 years relevant experience or Ph.D. plus 10 years
relevant experience, with appropriate references.
(Relevant areas are horticulture, horticulture extension/lecturing, plant production)
He will have knowledge of the growing, packing and marketing of vegetables, fruit and flowers.
The candidate will be expected to have demonstrated leadership skills and probably had lecturing or
extension experience. (They should be asked to submit examples of training packages they have
written/delivered.)
He will be a good communicator, fluent in Arabic and English.
He is likely to have organized training workshops and Field Days.
A good knowledge of T.Q.M., HACCP, ISO 9000, ISO 14000 and EUREP GAP is advantageous.
He will have experience in controlling budgets and be computer literate.
He will be expected to develop strong links for himself and his team with the grower/exporters fundamental
to the success of the Pilot.
- 70 -



The successful candidate will be expected to spend a significant proportion of his time in the field, leading
his team/delivering the product.
Terms of reference - Technology Transfer Specialist (T/T S)
Upon appointment the TUTS will satisfactorily complete an induction program.
The T/T S will deliver the Pilot's products to small and medium size farmers, and liaise closely with their
nominated exporter/grower(s) and their technical staff.
The T/T S will deliver training, either alone or with a specialist, or together with a technician from the
grower/exporter. The uptake of this training will be monitored and reported to the Senior T/T S.
He will be expected to spend the majority of his time in the field, with the Pilot's clients.
He will identify problems which are holding back export crops quality or productivity, and report these
promptly to the Problem Management Unit.
He will provide requested data for the Ag Exp Prom Unit, protocols in preparation, and NCARTT staff,
for production and costs matrices:
He will ensure that he keeps abreast of all current, relevant technologies.
He will provide his Team Leader with quarterly summaries of his activities and their impact on his growers
and their businesses.
Candidate Profile - Technology Transfer Specialist
Academic Qualifications:- M.Sc. and 8 years relevant experience, or Ph.D. and 5 years relevant experience
(Relevant experience, as for Senior T/T S. )
He will have good communication skills, and be fluent in Arabic and English, both written and spoken.
He will be computer literate.
He will have published work of a practical nature.
He will have demonstrated leadership skills and an familiarity with production systems for high-value
horticulture crops.
He will have a full driving licence, and access to a suitable vehicle, for which an allowance will be paid.
Outgrowers, Outgrower Contracts and Possible Project Pilot Farmers
1. The outgrower system will be enhanced if exporters are prepared to develop transparency with the
costs and returns involved in exporting - this will help in overcoming the traditional mistrust
2. Costed production matrices for the leading crops need to be prepared by national specialists, showing
costs and returns at differing levels of export production.
3. The advantages to large growers of entering outgrower contracts is that they can achieve a critical
mass more quickly in export markets, whilst sharing out the, capital cost across more cartons of
produce. Their existing packing and cooling centers will become consolidation points for export
produce. At the same time, the exporter will ensure that " Lot-identity" is maintained, giving the
traceability that all in the supply chain now require.
4. The advantage to small growers of entering outgrower contracts with those large exporter/growers in
the Pilot is that they would become eligible for fast-track training in high-value crop technology, and
returns commensurate with delivering export-quality produce directly to the exporter.
5. See "The General Requirements of the Jordanian Accredited Export Farmer Scheme" Code of
Practice and Appendix 2 the Natural Resources Institute's "Sample Smallholder Contract"
-71 -



6. - the contract will cover the following headings:-
Exporters buying produce should ensure transparent purchasing policies and practices- e,g, All
outgrowers should have written agreements which include details of obligations to and entitlements
from the exporter.
Exporters will ensure that all outgrowers understand their obligations and entitlements,
supplementing written agreements with verbal and other communications.
There shall be a mutually agreed and transparent purchasing policy.
Payments shall be made in cash or by a mutually agreed alternative form of payment (cheque/bank
transfer).
Technical advice shall be provided, as needed either by the exporter, or by the exporter in conjunction with
other appropriate agencies.
The exporter shall take responsibility for providing technical advice for outgrowers prior to
starting crop production, including information about costings, labor requirements and realistic
expected returns, services provided, including any costs and risks involved e.g. possible price and yield
variation
Exporters buying from out growers will ensure that the outgrowers have access to the technical advice and
training to ensure Code of Practice Compliance;
e.g. The exporter should ensure that outgrowers are aware of the relevant principles and
requirements of the Code of Practice.
7. The criteria to define a suitable grower/exporter for this Pilot were agreed between growers and
Government staff as including:-
- They would be distinguished by their marketing/exporting ability.
- Possession of cooling, packing and transportation facilities.
- A willingness to participate in the Pilot and to organize outgrowers for their specialist high value
crops.
8.    The following Grower/Exporters, during an open participatory discussion between the government
and farmers/exporters, have openly indicated, in principle, their willingness to develop outgrower schemes
as part of the Pilot Program. Possible project participants will be further discussed with the government at
the time of project launch.
Mr. Said B. Masri              Exotic vegetables
Mr. Fuad Salama                Exotic vegetables
Mr. Hasan Abu Sido             Vegetables (tomatoes,cucumber,sweet & hot pepper etc.)
Mr. Hisham/Ishaq Madanat       Vegetables and seedless grapes
Mr. Khalil Abu Ghannam         Strawberries
Mr. Maher Djani                Deciduous fruit (pome and stone)
Mr. Charif Mzayek              Cut flowers (roses)
*Including electronic files
- 72 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
02-May-2002
Difrerence between expected
and actual
Odlginal Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                         Cancel.    Undiab.      Orig  Frm Revd
P069326       2000 JO-HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                  34.70      0.00                            0.00     29.119      4.79      0.00
P039749        1999 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                            35.00      0.00                            0.00     23.!1       2.90      0.00
P048521        1999 JO-AMMAN WATER & SANITATION                     55.00      0.00                            0.00     30.35      20.69      0.00
P052297        1998 TRAINING & EMPL.                                 5.00      0.00                            0.00      3.22       3.06      0.00
P049581        1998 COMMUNITY INFRADEV.                             30.00      0.00                            0.00     15.11      15.11     15.11
P035997        1998 JO-SECOND TOURISM DEV.                          32.00       0.00                           0.00     1Z!.5      .13.82     0.00
P005237        1996 GULF OF AOAE3A EAP                               0.00       0.00                           0.00      0.12      -0.48      0.32
P005307        1995 HUMAN RESOURCES DEV.SECTOR INVESTMENT II        60.00       0.00                           0.00      8.1i4      8.54      6.21
Total:     251.70       0.00                           0.00      128.77     68.42     21.64
- 73 -



JORDAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                AIHC                          0.00    3.60    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.60     0.00    0.00
1987/90/93/95       Al-Hikma                      0.00    0.34     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34     0.00    0.00
1997                BTC                           3.11    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.11    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001                Boscan Jordan                 8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                El-Zay                        3.21    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.21    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               Indo-Jordan                   18.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               JHTC                           8.57    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001                Jordan Gateway               10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                Jordinvest                    0.00    1.41     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.41    0.00    0.00
1999               MAICO                          0.00    1.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75     0.00    0.00
2000                MEIB                          0.00    2.20     2.15    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.15    0.00
2002                SIC                           8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Zara                          13.76    2.97     0.00    0.00   13.76    2.97     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        72.65    11.52         2.15     0.00    58.65    9.07    2.15
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               Boscan Jordan                     6.00      0.00      1.00     0.00
2002               IIMPD                            12.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        18.50      0.00      1.00     0.00
-74 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
JORDAN: Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Projecit
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Jordan     Africa   Income      Development diamond
2000
PopulaUon, mid-year (millions)                         4.9       296     2,046                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,710     2,040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       8.4       602     2,327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                         3.1        2.0       1.0
Labor force (96)                                       4.1       2.8        13      GNI                             Gross
Labor force M                                2.8       1.3   ~~~per!'                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   12
Urban pooulation (% of total population)                74        59        42
Life expectancy at birth (Veers)                        71        68        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                26        44        32
Child malnutrition (M of children under 5)               5          ,       11           Access to improved wate, source
Access to an Improved water source (X of population)    96        89        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    10        35        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   71        95       114           -   Jordan
Male                                                  70       102       116        -     Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                                72        88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            4.0      4.0        8.1       8.3
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                36.7     31.9       20.8      22.5                    Trade
Exports of ooods and services/GDP            39.9     61.9      43.6      44.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    -7.6     1.0        2.6       3.8
Gross national savings/GDP                   30.6     21.7       25.6      31.6
Current account balance/GDP                   7.1    -10.2        5 0       0.7     Domestic                    Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                         2.0      7.6        4.6       4.3
Total debUGDP                                49.8    203.4      110.8     100.7     savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                     11.2     20.3       11.8      13.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                                  80.1
Present value of debt/exports                                             116.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(averaoe annual growth)
GDP                                  2.5      5.0      3.1        3.9       4.6              Jordan
GDP per capita                      -1.2      1.0      0.0        0.8       1,8               Lower-middle-,ncor e group
Exports of goods and services        4.8      2.6      0.5        7.1       5. 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment end GDP (%1
(56 of GDP)                                                                         20
Agriculture                                   7.9      8.1        2.4       2.2
Industry                                     28.0     28.1       25.6      24.8     's
Manufacturing                               12.7     14.9      15.7      15.6      o
Services                                     64.1     63.8       72.0      73.0    *10     9                   ,   9   00
Private consumption                          78 8     74.1       72.8      72.4    -20
General govemment consumption                28.8     24.9       24.6      23.8               -     GDl     t-GDP
Imports of goods and services                84.2     92.7       61.8      63.1
(average annual growth)                   1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   6.8     -2.0      -20.4       7.1    1
Industry                                      1.7      4.7        4.9       3.8
Manufacturina                               0.5       5.4       6.0       5.6
Services                                      2.3      5.0        3.2       4.9     o4                 '       A
Private consumption                           1.9      4.5        2.8       1.9        _9                              00
General government consumption                1.9      4.9        5.3      -1.0
Gross domestic investment                    -1.9      0 3       -0.7      10.9             -Expor           PImports
Imports of poods and services                 1.2      1.2        0.5       4.3                                     -
Note: 2000 data are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrV (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the di3mond will
be incomplete.
- 75-



Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             110     161        06       07
Implicit GDP deflator                       1.1     114       -1.6     406
Govemment finance                                                               2
(% of GDP, Indudes cutrent grants)                                              o 
Current revenue                            54.6     40.2      31.0     30.2    -2      95    95    9T    98
Current budget balance                               8.7       2.5      1.1               GDPdefator      :cPI
Overall surplus/defidct                              2.6      -3.4     -4.7
TRADE
(JS$ ml/llons)                             1980    1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         431    1,064     1,769    1,817     5,000
Food                                       59       90       180      164
Phosphates                                119      209       162      128
Manufactures                              102      470       856      933     |,000
Total Imports (cif)                        1,799   2,600     3,717    4,597      °°         *        **
Food                                      299      609       683      747
Fuel and energy                           307      461       450      718     1    10I0
Capital goods                             620      391      1,022    1,313       o
Export price index (1995=100)                85      80         94       90           94   95  96   97   98
lmportpricelndex(1995=100)                  113      100       102      105                 laExports    *lmports
Temns of trade (1995=100)                    75       80        92       86
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             1.181    2,511     3,534    3,536     10
Imports of goods and services             2,417    3,754     4,990    5,796
Resource balance                          -1,236  -1,242    -1,456    -2,260     s -
Net income                                   36     -215      -155      -27
Net current transfers                     1,481    1,046     2,016    2,345      0                  97   98   99  oo
Current account balance                     280     -411       405       59
Financing items (net)                         0     823        355      622
Changes In net reserves                    -280     -412      -760     -681     ._0
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)     1,347   1,138     2,749    3,430
Converslon rate (DEC. Ioct31US$)            0.3      0.7       0.7      0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USs millions)                                                                  Compostiton of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,971   8,177     8,942    8,397
IBRD                                       26     516       835       798                 F: 679  A: 798
IDA                                        76      77         60       57                               B 57
Totaldebtservice                            210      625       647      781                                    462
IBRD                                        1      89        114      106
IDA                                         1       2          3        3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                         1,127     672        390      404                                -JD- 2.017
Officlal creditorm                        272     235        -37     -361                           N     j
Private creditors                          -8     216        117      365         E: 4.384
Foreign direct Invastment                  34      38        154      751
Portfoli equRty                             0       0         -3      104
World Bank cor''.ri-
Commitments                                50      175       210       35     A-IBRD      D Othermulrilateral
Disburserr,ents                            31      124       160       38     B - IDA     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                        0      53         68       56     C - IMF     F - Ot;,ers
Net flow's                                 31      71         92      -17
Interetf ,.,,ynents                                38         49       53
Net trsnrsf                                        33         44      -71
Develcc  .! conomlcs                                                                                            9/18/01



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29234
370                               393
r                                                          'o - ,  -  -   -
'-.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
- AMMAN|
,31'                                                                                  31/  2   S  *   [M  L' A'
330° ,_1.-;I'onobSj,_J                                                                3  AN30t
,1[~ ~   ~   A ,,rk*, zJ  j,
31                                                                                   3105 5MLS  EENA IES N TEM   9
(       s    o   7   1015 IOMTRh--- -                  -- JOTRDATTNT TEM NAI
J~~~~~~~~~~~~ on thsmpd o ml nfepr fTeWrdB ru n NENATIONAL CONAPITAL
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ juamn                                SEECE  CITIE  ANDliou  TOWNSertoyo oyenos lo
'-I~~~~~~~~~~I
0~ y.h
290 ~ ~ ~~S0
judgent an te lega statu bon a!rnites tr.r nedrsmn
35°               360               370 380                              390
DECEMBER 1 997






' IMAGING
Report No.:        24428   JO
Type:     PAD



