                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000679




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-46680)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.00 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                      HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                      FOR A

  HORTICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
                                    PROJECT




                                   July 28, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective April 25, 2008)

            Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                    JD 0.7 = US$1.0
                    US$1.4 = JD 1.0

                    FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 - December 1


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASAL      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
AMD       Agricultural Marketing Department
BDU       Business Development Unit
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CRGF      Competitive Research Grant Fund
EPD       Export Promotion and Development
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
EurepGAP  Euro Retailers Produce-Good Agriculture Practices
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FMRs      Financial Monitoring Reports
GAP       Good Agricultural Practice
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOJ       Government of Jordan
ha        hectare
HEF       Horticultural Export Fund
HEPTTP    Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology Transfer Project
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ISO       International Standards Organization
ISRs      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ITC       International Trade Center
JD        Jordanian Dinars
JE        Jordan Enterprise
JEDCO     Jordan Export Development and Commercial Centers Corporation
JEPA      Jordan Exporters and Producers Association
JEPAFV    Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for Fruits and Vegetables
kg        Kilogram
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture

MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOPIC          Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MT             Metric Ton
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NCARE          National Center for Agricultural Research and Extension
NCARTT         National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
NPV            Net Present Value
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PDO            Project Development Objective
PPD            Plant Protection Department
RJA            Royal Jordanian Airlines
SMPA           Subject-matter Professional Associations
TIC            Technical Implementation Committee
TTS            Technology Transfer Specialist




Vice President:                         Daniela Gressani
Country Director:                       Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:                         Luis F. Constantino
Project Team Leader:                    Nabil M. Chaherli
ICR Team Leader:                        Nabil M. Chaherli

                                       Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
         Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project

                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


  A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................... i

  B. Key Dates................................................................................................................................. i

  C. Ratings Summary..................................................................................................................... i

  D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ ii

  E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................................ ii

  F. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................................. iii

  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................vi

  H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................................vi

  I. Disbursement Profile............................................................................................................ vii

1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1

2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 5

3.   Assessment of Outcomes...................................................................................................... 10

4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 14

5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 15

6.   Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................... 18

7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 22

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................... 23

Annex 2: Output by Components................................................................................................. 24

Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................................. 31

Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................ 36

Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................... 38

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 41


Annex 6: Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 65
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................... 66

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Horticultural Exports
                                                                      Promotion and
Country:                Jordan                 Project Name:
                                                                      Technology Transfer
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P076961                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46680
ICR Date:               06/26/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      THE HASHEMITE
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:              KINGDOM OF
                                                                      JORDAN
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 3.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/02/2002     Effectiveness:        01/15/2003        01/15/2003
Appraisal:             04/10/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/26/2002     Mid-term Review:      06/01/2005        06/01/2005
                                      Closing:              12/31/2006        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                               35                35
Agricultural marketing and trade                                  45                45
Central government administration                                 20                20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                           Primary         Primary
Rural markets                                                   Secondary       Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           Secondary       Secondary
Technology diffusion                                            Secondary       Secondary
Trade facilitation and market access                            Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                         Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Luis F. Constantino                Petros Aklilu
Project Team Leader:       Nabil M. Chaherli                  Tijan M. Sallah
ICR Team Leader:           Nabil M. Chaherli
ICR Primary Author:        Richard James



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was to assist the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) to improve horticultural export marketing by pilot testing:
(i) a system of outgrower farming between large and small/medium scale farmers



                                                ii

(henceforth called outgrowers) in order to achieve critical mass or bulk volumes
demanded by the target markets and improve the income of participating farmers; and (ii)
the building of the technological capacity of farmers, especially the outgrowers, to
improve crop husbandry practices and their produce quality to satisfy the requirements of
target markets and reduce the rejection rates of exported consignments. PDO
achievement will be measured by the number of horticultural exporters and export-
oriented producers, and their export volumes and values, as well as the area under
horticultural production compliant with GAP standards. As this LIL tests the
appropriateness of a tool (i.e. contract farming) to achieve these objectives, target values
cannot be set for the objectives themselves, but rather for the service structures (such as
Horticultural Export Promotion Department created and operational"; "16 Technology
Transfer Specialists employed"; "quality testing laboratory upgraded and operational")
which aim at improving the business environment for using this tool. In addition, the LIL
will produce a number of "knowledge objects" such as case studies on contract farming
arrangements, analyzing the key determinants for the arrangements actually found.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
At no point during the Project were the PDOs formally revised. The Project, however,
underwent informal restructuring in response to the weaknesses and emerging
opportunities observed during the Mid-Term-Review in June 2005. At that time, the
management deemed unnecessary to formally restructure the Project because the general
objectives were still considered pertinent and relevant. Therefore, in consultation with all
the stakeholders, the following modifications were introduced in the Project in June
2005:

  (i) mainstreaming of horticultural export promotion services within Jordan Export
Development & Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) and the dissolution of
Horticulture Export Promotion Department (HEPD);

  (ii) establishment of a Horticulture Export Fund (HEF) for small- and medium-scale
farmers/producers;

  (iii) creation of the position of a supply chain manager; and

  (iv) establishment of a Project Management Committee (PMC).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                 Value (JD) of key horticultural crops (beans&peas, chili, cucumber, cut flowers,
Indicator 1 :    dates, fresh herbs, melon, okra, stone fruits, tomato) exported by proj.
                 beneficiaries to target markets (Europe, Gulf)
Value
quantitative or  2.5 million JD             5.3 million JD                     10.4 million JD



                                                 iii

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments        Despite lack of a proper measure of Project's impact, beneficiary surveys indicate
(incl. %        that approximately 275 small/medium size producers were engaged in supplying
achievement)    the export market either directly or through an exporter.
                Value (JD) of 10 key horticultural crops (see above) exported by proj.
Indicator 2 :   beneficiaries WITH CONTRACT FARMING ARRANGEMENTS to target
                markets (Europe, Gulf)
Value
quantitative or 574,120                    1,680,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Number of contract farmers supplying target markets in fulfillment of marketing
                opportunities identified through project-financed activities
Value
quantitative or 8                          81
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Area (dunum) of project beneficiaries under horticultural production for exports,
                compliant with GAP standard
Value
quantitative or 1040                       3000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of project beneficiaries with contract farming arrangements
Value
(quantitative   39
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                iv

Indicator 2 :  Number of contract farming groups
Value
(quantitative  8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Number of farmers/exports who participated in trade fairs, exhibitions, and
               export awareness workshops
Value
(quantitative  127
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Number of on-farm technical problems resolved as result of TTS advice
Value
(quantitative  27
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Proportion (%) of farmers visited who shifted production to export standards
Value
(quantitative  7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Number of pesticide residue samples analyzed
Value
(quantitative  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :  Proportion (%) of consignments rejected on arrival at target markets (Europe,
               Gulf)
Value
(quantitative  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003
Comments



                                              v

(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     08/13/2002      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     01/14/2003      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     03/21/2003      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.30
  4     07/31/2003      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.30
  5     12/08/2003      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.30
  6     05/27/2004      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.50
  7     11/16/2004      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.74
  8     04/25/2005      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.33
  9     07/14/2005      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.57
  10    01/20/2006      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.93
  11    03/16/2006 Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  2.02
  12    12/21/2006 Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  2.39
  13    06/24/2007 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           3.18
  14    01/18/2008 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           3.61



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                         vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

    1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1    Context at Appraisal

       At the time of appraisal, agricultural export market development remained a
challenge for Jordan's economy as it depended on the politically vulnerable regional
market for its exports. Following the Gulf War of 1991, export prospects eroded as the
regional markets shrank. Jordan was slowly regaining its share of the Gulf markets and
signed a Free Trade Agreement which was expected to double its agricultural exports to
Kuwait. The country then began to pursue an export diversification strategy into the
more stable, fast growing markets of Europe, designed to reduce its vulnerability.

       Country and Sector Background: Jordan enjoyed competitive advantages that
benefitted its production of 12 crops for which it had a commercial potential, i.e.,
strawberries, grapes, asparagus, melons, green beans, eggplant, tomatoes, peppers,
peaches, nectarines, cherries, and raspberries. Jordan's natural advantages include a
growing season that is opposite to that of Europe, which allows the growing of summer
crops when Europe is in the winter season, and meeting the demands of offseason niche
markets in Europe. Other advantages include relatively cheaper labor and transportation
(proximity to Europe) and an export-friendly trade and incentive environment.

       The challenge of Jordan's development planners was how to modernize its
agriculture from its (current) high water consumption, but relatively low value-added
contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP), to one that maximizes the returns to this
scarce factor. Some of the institutional shortcomings preventing the private sector from
responding to export prospects, in particular, Europe, in a robust manner included:
organizing farmers to achieve "critical mass" or "bulk volumes"; market intelligence;
technology transfer; quality control; and managerial and technical education.

       Rationale for Bank Assistance.          HEPTTP was identified in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report R-2002-0229, December 27, 2002) to support the
Jordanian economy to a higher growth path with equity. Specifically, the project was to:

       (a)     support export oriented private sector investment in the agricultural sector;
               and

       (b)     contribute to a more rational natural resources management through a
               more environmentally-sustainable and efficient use of land and irrigation
               water with higher economic returns. The project was proposed by the
               Bank as a LIL to provide the requisite support to catalyze large-scale
               farmers to contract with small and medium-scale farmers by way of
               incentives, timely marketing information and support services and
               systems. Success with this pilot operation was expected to provide a
               useful basis for Jordan to attract greater investments in the development of
               the horticulture sector with a potential for replication under a scaled-up,


                                              1

                follow-on operation covering a larger number of small and medium size
                farmers.

1.2     Original PDO and Key Performance Indicators (KPI)

        The PDO was to assist the GOJ to improve horticultural export marketing by pilot
testing: (i) a system of outgrower farming between large and small and medium-scale
farmers in order to achieve "critical mass" or "bulk volumes" demanded by the target
markets and improve the income of participating farmers; and (ii) the building of the
technological capacity of farmers, especially the outgrowers, to improve crop husbandry
practices and produce quality to satisfy the requirements of target markets and reduce the
rejection rates of exported consignments.

KPI for achievement of the PDO:

        The KPI for the project were:

        (a)     a significant increase in the volume and value of exports to the Gulf and
European markets; and

        (b)     a significant increase in the number of small and medium-scale farmers
producing and being linked to export markets.

1.3     Revised PDO:

        The PDO and the KPI were not formally revised. However, the KPI as stated in
the PAD were only broadly defined and had to be clarified and detailed into measurable
outcome and output indicators early during project implementation. The achievements of
the PDO were to be measured by:

        (a)     value (in JD)of key horticultural crops exported by project beneficiaries to
the target markets (mainly Europe and the Gulf);

        (b)     value (JD) of the key horticultural crops exported by project beneficiaries
with contract farming arrangements to target markets;

        (c)     number of contract farmers supplying target markets in fulfillment of
marketing opportunities identified through project-financed activities; and

        (d)     area (dunum1) owned by project beneficiaries under horticultural
production for exports, compliant with the Euro-Retailers Produce Good Agriculture
Practices (EurepGAP) Standards.




11 dunum = 0.1 hectare.


                                              2

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

        The primary target groups of the Project were: (i) the small and medium-scale
farmers with the potential but not the know-how for becoming involved in exporting
horticultural products, and (ii) the large farmers and exporters interested in expanding
their export business through contract farming. Through strengthening the institutional
frameworks, promotion of export prospects, information dissemination, and the
upgrading the certification facilities, the project benefited the horticultural sector as a
whole and the following organizations/institutions in particular: (i) Jordan Export
Development and Commercial Centers Corporation (JEDCO) now Jordan Enterprise
(JE); (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) Agricultural Marketing Department
(AMD) and the Plant Protection Department (PPD); (iii) National Center for Agricultural
Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT) now National Center for Agricultural
Research and Extension (NCARE); and (iv) Jordan Exporters and Producers Association
(JEPA). The introduction of the Horticulture Export Fund (HEF) placed further emphasis
on the main target group of small and medium-scale farmers.

1.5     Original Components

        The project had four components and seven sub-components (see page 10 and
Annex 2 of PAD). The total project costs including contingencies were estimated at
US$6.57 million, of which the Bank financed US$5.0 million. The Government financed
US$1.37 million and US$0.2 million was financed by the Local Farmers Organization.

        Component 1: Horticulture Export Promotion: US$2.26 million; (Bank's
contribution US$1.73 million). This component, which was implemented by JEDCO and
AMD with private sector involvement, supported the Jordanian producers and exporters
through: (i) promotional activities through collection and dissemination of timely
information on products and markets; (ii) capacity building activities focused on export;
and (iii) advocacy activities to promote a supportive policy environment for high-value
horticulture products.

        Component 2:       Strengthening Technology Support Services: Technology
Development and Transfer US$2.36 million; (Bank's contribution US$1.76 million).
The project supported horticulture and floriculture products through: (i) adaptive
technology development and transfer to assist farmers to adopt and adapt new high-value
crop varieties into their farming systems; (ii) capacity building for small and medium-
scale farmers to support large growers/exporters to get existing small and medium-scale
farmers up to speed as outgrowers; and (iii) selection and training of TTS to provide just-
in-time technology help to farmers participating in the project.

        Component 3: Quality Testing and Export Certification Services: US$1.06
million (Bank's contribution US$0.93 million). The project supported: (i) the Plant
Protection Directorate of MOA to improve its capacity for testing pesticide residues and
heavy metals for the issuance of internationally recognized certificates for penetrating
target markets; and (ii) to improve the cold chain integrity for quality control at the




                                             3

airport through the purchase of 14 thermal blankets to protect fresh produce on the pallets
when on the tarmac.

        Component 4: Project Coordination Unit (PCU): US$0.84 million; (Bank's
contribution US$0.58 million). This component supported the establishment, staffing
and operations of the PCU, established within MOA, to oversee project implementation
and to monitor project progress and achievements.

1.6     Revised Components

        The components were not revised.

1.7     Other significant changes

        Changes in scope and implementation arrangements, and financing mechanism
were as follows:

        (a)   HEF: Although the project was successful in identifying several new
              market opportunities for farmers and exporters, the MTR carried out in
              June 2005 found that the project lacked an effective mechanism for
              transforming export business opportunities into business transactions. To
              fill this gap, the Bank's task team and the Borrower agreed to establish a
              fund, the HEF, using a cost sharing basis for farm business diagnostics and
              a matching grant mechanism for finding solutions to export development
              bottlenecks. The HEF would be financed by reallocating funds from the
              other project categories and was meant to stimulate demand for export
              promotion, marketing, and technical and general business advisory
              services in the horticultural sector. Its main purpose was to provide small
              and medium-scale farmers with market information and encourage them to
              transform export business opportunities into viable businesses (i.e.,
              shipments sold in target markets). Under this new mechanism, JEDCO
              was to manage the HEF through its newly established Business
              Development Unit (BDU) for the duration of the project.               Other
              implementation arrangement changes include three business development
              specialists hired to staff the BDU.

        (b)   The Competitive Research Grant Fund (CRGF), established to support
              problem-solving oriented research and technology-transfer services
              demanded by contract farmers and exporters, was dropped. Although the
              grant received more than 100 requests for adaptive research, only four
              requests were supported. Unfortunately the farmers/exporters were not
              involved in choosing the four subjects receiving support or in
              rejecting/cancelling the remaining 96 requests. Particularly, the rejected
              requests for support made it difficult for farmers, exporters and TTS to get
              answers to technical problems they faced in the field because of an
              insufficient number of proposals submitted which met the requirements
              (were demand-driven by farmers).



                                             4

       (c)     The project was extended for one year from December 31, 2006 to
               December 31, 2007.


    2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

       Project preparation was carried out in consultation with, and active involvement
of the Ministry of Planning and International cooperation (MOPIC), Ministry of Finance
(MOF), and stakeholders from the private sector (JEPA2, farmer's representatives and
associations, independent farmers and exporters), and the national research institution
(NCARTT now NCARE). When early in implementation, questions about the project
concept and implementation arrangements were raised by MOPIC and MOF, a
consultative workshop was held with all stakeholders, including Royal Jordanian Airlines
(RJA) to address the issues and incorporate recommendations made on contract farming
versus market opportunities.         Issues of trust and transparency arose during
implementation between the public and private sector, and between exporters and
contract farmers, exporters and buyers, etc. Project preparation could have benefited
from more consensus building between the various players who would have been new to
the world of business relationships and in what are, fundamentally, commercial interests.

       The choice of a LIL was an appropriate instrument to test the potential for
promoting exports from Jordan where the market to neighboring European countries
showed much promise, but the capacity of Jordan's horticulture sector for reaching and
meeting such markets' demands was not developed. Constraints to establishing an
effective supply chain as well as the logistics and transportation problems were not fully
addressed for the sector as a whole. The LIL was to be a learning experience designed to
study the characteristics of contract farming in response to marketing opportunities and
the extent to which these arrangements could improve horticultural exports. This was
also the first attempt to bring together the major stakeholders in a push for promoting
Jordanian horticulture by making available and testing improved support services for
export promotion, improving marketing information, providing technical advisory
services, and supporting the business development.

       Objective: The project's objectives are relevant to the priorities of developing and
promoting exports in Jordan through improving horticultural marketing. The constraints
to export marketing were identified during preparation and addressed through measures
and instruments, knowledge and dissemination and aimed at different segments of the
supply chain from point of production to point of sale.

       Project Design: The number of project interventions and activities were beyond
the realistic timeframe and scope of the LIL.           The design of the project and its
implementation arrangements required the participation and collaboration of a large
number of players. Managing the coordination and collaboration aspects of the project


2JEPA was previously JEPAFV (Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for Fruits and Vegetables).


                                               5

was a major challenge, particularly for the PCU, and not only required skillful
management and experience, but also support from all stakeholders.

       Assessment of Risk: The project was concerned primarily with institution
building and as such was rated an Environmental Category C. It correctly identified the
environmental and social safeguard risks associated (poor agricultural practices due to
increased horticulture activity, water use, pesticide application, disadvantaged small
farmers in contractual arrangements with larger exporters, etc.), and put in place
appropriate measures to mitigate those risks (technical advice/assistance for proper
practices, pesticide residue testing and prevention, transparent practices, arbitration
measures, etc.).    It also identified correctly the financial management risks, weak
management of the project and lack of qualified staff, mitigating those with conditions of
effectiveness, and the risks of coordination and collaboration across implementing
agencies. However, on the business development risks, the project did not identify the
following:

       (a)     failure to meet the EU buyer's product and process standards (traceability,
               food safety),

       (b)     the cost competitiveness factor in exporting selected products (transport
               costs, labor, relatively higher airfreight, e.g., RJA and their charges,
               electricity, labor costs);

       (c)     access to credit for farmers and the failure to stimulate support from
               banking institutions for supporting/financing outgrower schemes; and

       (d)     the difficulties associated with upgrading exporter facilities to meet
               Eropean Union (EU) market requirements.

2.2    Implementation

       The project became effective on January 15, 2003, six months after being
approved by the World Bank Board. However, soon after appraisal, difficulties emerged
in convincing small and medium-scale farmers and potential exporters on the viability of
the model (one large farmer/exporter linked with several small farmers) and its
implementation arrangements. The Bank's project team reacted quickly by holding
extensive consultations with the stakeholders to reexamine contract farming models and
the related issues such as logistics, priorities and next steps to move the project forward.
Recommendations were proposed and agreed upon with the stakeholders to re-orient the
project to focus more on private sector participation. The project team also tried to
resolve implementation bottlenecks with JEDCO and the PCU. The loan closing date
was extended once, for a 12 month period, to December 31, 2007 to allow services
offered by the project to be brought closer to, and tailored according to the needs of small
and medium-scale farmers.

       CRGF: By end-2004, it became evident that NCARE, which managed the CRGF,
and was involved in setting evaluation criteria, evaluating proposals, and in the selection
process itself, could not compete for the research funds. Since Jordan has limited


                                               6

expertise in agricultural research, most of which is concentrated at NCARE, most other
institutions submitting proposals under the CRGF were neither national research entities
nor specialized in agriculture and largely depended on NCARE researchers to carry out
research funded under the CRGF. NCARE management and the PCU provided an early
evaluation of the CRGF procedures and revised them so that NCARE professionals
would be permitted to submit research proposals under the fund.

        HEF: At the MTR, a new funding mechanism, the HEF, was designed to foster
export business ventures for small and medium-scale farmers. The fund was managed by
the BDU, housed within JEDCO, which would assist farmers and exporters in business
proposals for exports.

        Under the project, 32 TTS were recruited and trained to provide technical
assistance and advice to farmers and exporters. Sixteen farmers were able to obtain
EurepGAP certificates with another 34 in the process of being certified (as of December
2007); and the project contributed to the upgrading and equipping of the pesticide residue
laboratory to provide Jordan's laboratories with the ability to test for residues and issue
certifications which meet international quality standards.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        Design: Although the design of the M&E system was appropriate, both Bank and
Government project teams had difficulty measuring the achievements of the project using
the broad indicators cited in the PAD. These were later elaborated into specific and
measurable indicators soon after project effectiveness. Because of the nature of the LIL,
the indicators were considered adequate at that time. However, by current standards, they
were insufficient and incomplete.

        Implementation: M&E, particularly important as a learning objective of the LIL,
was weak. It was slow to start and did not deliver. The M&E staff in the PCU lacked the
capacity and experience to carry out the monitoring activities, and the Unit was unable to
carry out baseline and impact surveys of randomly selected farmers in both project and
non-project areas, i.e., survey to gauge key interest groups' response to the outputs
generated by the pilot activities. The M&E Unit's ability to collaborate with other
implementing agencies (JEDCO and NCARE) to collect information and data was also
ineffective. Implementing partners did not regard the M&E exercise as a learning process
but instead, conducted their promotion activities without consulting or collaborating with
the M&E unit. Relationships between the M&E Unit and the PCU Director were tense
and lacked mutual trust. Despite repeated attempts by the Bank to strengthen the Unit
with external M&E consultants, all efforts yielded little result.

        M&E Utilization: No baseline surveys are available and no adequate management
information system (beneficiary assessments, database of beneficiaries, farmer surveys,
etc.) was developed by the M&E Unit to monitor export promotion and technology
transfer activities. Consequently, a comprehensive beneficiary database was never
prepared.    During the later years of the project, the data that was compiled was
considered incomplete with partial list of participants in export promotion and technology



                                             7

transfer activities and with very limited information on project beneficiaries' profiles and
outputs. During the last supervision mission, Bank team members prepared a Beneficiary
Survey, in addition to carrying out telephone interviews of all exporters involved in the
project and the data was obtained by the closing date.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

       Safeguards: The project did not trigger any safeguard policies. The project was
an Environmental Category C and had no negative environmental impact. Although
pesticides were widely used in the Jordan Valley, they were not financed under the
project.

Fiduciary Aspects:

       Disbursements: The Project was approved by the Board on June 26, 2002, but
did not become effective until January 15, 2003.             During the initial years of
implementation, project progress was slow and actual disbursements were lower than
originally estimated at appraisal. During the MTR which took place June 1 ­ 13, 2005,
several issues were addressed by the Bank with the Government which had a direct
bearing on the financial management arrangements of the project. The main issues being:

       (a)      inadequate follow-up on previously agreed recommendations;

       (b)      bottlenecks and inefficiencies regarding the flow of funds;

       (c)      no automated accounting software within the PCU with the capability of
                generating Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) required by the Bank
                during project implementation;

       (d)      insufficient coordination between the PCU and the implementing entities;
                and

       (e)      untimely audit reports. Although some of these issues were corrected,
                particularly the problem with the software, the PCU could have benefited
                from a more open and transparent relationship with the implementing
                agencies. At the time of MTR, and based on data available as of April 30,
                2005, US$1.3 million (26%) of the Bank's US$5 million loan had been
                disbursed. When the loan was extended in December 2006, disbursements
                had almost doubled at approximately US$2.4 million (48%) and at project
                closure one year later, a total of US$3.9 (78%) had been disbursed with
                the remaining US$1.1 to be cancelled. Loan disbursements were made
                within the following categories of expense:




                                             8

                         Goods:                    US$1.010 million
                         Works:                    US$0.021 million
                         Services and Training:    US$2.613 million
                         Grants:                   US$0.061 million
                         Designated Account:       US$0.141 million
                         Front End Fee:            US$0.050 million

       Although requested from the Government at the time of ICR preparation,
disbursement data could not be obtained on the Government's contribution of US$1.37
million or the US$0.2 million contributed by the local Farmer's Organizations.

       Procurement Aspects: There were many procurement related problems that
negatively impacted project progress, for example, the PCU had an inefficient
procurement unit with a procurement specialist who was never able to receive training
despite repeated requests by the Bank that he undergo training. The Government's
procurement procedures were cumbersome which made it extremely difficult to meet
procurement processing deadlines. Similarly, there was a low procurement threshold
level for decision-making by the Special Tender Committee; slow processing of
procurement approvals at the Special Steering Committee, uncoordinated modification of
tender specifications, and time consuming procurement processes complicated
procurement activities.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

       Triggers for a follow-on operation: The following triggers were listed in the
PAD as justifications for a follow-on operation:

       (a)     the proposed arrangement between large farmers and outgrowers proves
               successful;

       (b)     the rejection rates of Jordanian fresh produce is reduced significantly;
               and/or

       (c)     export market access has been facilitated. The project has partially met
               the triggers for a follow-on operation as follows: The outgrower model
               tested under the project yielded mixed results but the contract farming
               approach implemented and based on unmet market demand, transparent
               terms between the parties, and direct support to the farmer from the
               exporter warrants further development. The rejection rates of Jordanian
               fresh produce can be improved.       The horticultural export industry in
               Jordan is relatively new and the gaps in improvement of the supply chain
               need to be filled. These include overcoming the constraints of the cold
               chain, logistics and transport, as well as contractual arrangements on the
               receiving end once goods are shipped from Jordan. With regard to the
               third trigger, export market access has been facilitated through the
               introduction of new products, and methods and measures to meet the




                                            9

                standards for products and processes (certification, residue testing,
                packaging, etc.) in target markets.

        Next Phase: GOJ has not yet committed to a follow-on operation with the Bank
despite the success of certain project activities and results achieved with HEPTTP, and is
awaiting the outcome of the ICR to discuss future possibilities in the sector. MOPIC,
however, has expressed an interest in alternative sources of funds to finance some
activities sponsored under the project.


                           3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

        Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation:

        Relevance of Objectives: The PDO is as relevant to the country's social and
economic development needs today as it was at appraisal. The objectives of the project
were consistent with the objectives of Jordan's 2002 CAS (Report R-2002-0229) which
aimed to provide direct support for export diversification and development in the
agriculture sector using this LIL as its mechanism. It also remains relevant to the
objectives of the current CAS (FY06-FY10) (Report R-35665) which supports
strengthening the investment environment for a skill-intensive and knowledge-based
economy, as well as local development through increased access to services and
economic opportunities. The project addressed the key issues of: (i) filling some market
niches for horticultural produce in selected markets; (ii) environmentally sound use of
natural resource base, particularly water-use and reduction of pesticides and fertilizers;
and (iii) the creation of farm jobs and increasing income for farmers.

        Design and Implementation: The project's design reflected the country's
development priorities and relevance to the PDO. It was designed as a small pilot
operation and constituted a learning phase of a long-term initiative undertaken by GOJ
and it has successfully tested a system of contract farming to address the demand needed
by the target markets. The project has also successfully brought awareness and change in
the mind-set of farmers, exporters and policy makers.             In terms of keeping the
implementation of the project flexible, the task team elaborated on indicators and during
the MTR, modified the design to the grant sub-component to meet the changing needs of
the stakeholders.

3.2     Achievement of PDO

        The PDO of improving Jordan's horticultural export marketing and building the
technological capacity of farmers to improve crop husbandry practices and produce
quality to satisfy the requirements of target markets in order to reduce the rejection rates
of exported consignments has been achieved.

        The project improved Jordan's horticultural export marketing by building the
capacity of exporters and farmers for exporting.            This was carried out through


                                             10

promotional activities to expose and introduce potential exporters to export business
opportunities through study tours and trade fairs, some of which have resulted in export
contracts for farmers to new markets. The project further supported these options with
market studies on viable export products and associated markets and disseminated the
findings through a communication strategy to beneficiaries. To provide the structure for
improving export prospects, the project developed and promoted a system of contract
farming between exporters/large-producers and small/medium scale farmers as well as
stand-alone farmers' groups contracting directly with importers. As a result of the
project's intervention, the total number of farmers exporting increased from 6 exporters
at the beginning of the project to 29 (from 48 receiving support) under the project, of
which 12 from the outgrower scheme phase were using contract farming (comprising 16
groups with 160 participants). Under the HEF, 16 contract farming arrangements were
established, of which 12 became operational, 8 were stand-alone groups (with 67
members) exporting independently and the remaining 4 were contract farming groups
(with 48 members) linked to an exporter.           The contracted farmers were supplying
approximately 55 percent of the exported produce, with the remainder supplied by large
growers/exporters.       Jordanian farmers and exporters have been less successful in
penetrating the markets in Western Europe but have been able to shift their target markets
to Central and Eastern Europe (Hungary, Romania, Ukraine and Russia) and improve
their exports to the Gulf countries.

        The project also successfully piloted institutional reforms for farmer-centered,
market-driven extension systems and it is now ready for replication on a wider scale
throughout the country, provided public service delivery is based on the right skills.
There are indications of a move to sustainable production systems research and extension
(reduction of chemicals used and soil/land testing), and to on- and off-farms value
addition as a result of the post-harvest tools set up through the project.

        In terms of building the technological capacity of farmers, the project provided
technical advisory services and assistance through the TTS and provided funding for
building the capacity of national laboratories to perform residue testing and provide
international certification. A total of 16 farmers were EUREPGAP certified during the
life of the project and another 34 were in the process of becoming certified when the
project closed.

        In terms of promoting an improved environment for exports, the project promoted
collaboration between professional associations such as JEPA which increased its
participation significantly during the project period. Under the project, two new subject-
matter professional associations (SMPA) have been formed, one for Charentais melons
and another for cut flowers with more planned in the pipeline.

3.3     Efficiency

        At the time of appraisal, limitations on obtaining accurate data on fruit and
vegetable prices and their marketing margins presented a challenge and therefore the Net
Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) analyses were not carried out




                                              11

(Annex 7, PAD). Instead, farmgate prices were calculated on three alternative marketing
opportunities:

       (a)     export to the EU markets;

       (b)     export to the Gulf markets; and (c) supply to local markets. The analysis
showed that exporting to the EU and Gulf markets would reap a net return to farmers
double that of local markets. At the time of the ICR, an economic analysis was carried
out which demonstrated a promising outlook for exports in Jordan with an Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of 33 percent and an IRR of 22 percent. The case analyzed showed
financial viability and IRRs exceeding the opportunity cost of capital.

       Despite the limited use of results from the structured survey and the periodic
standardized interviews carried out by the M&E Unit, the ICR economic analysis relied
on data directly provided by the implementing agencies and covering production costs
and gross margins, transportation costs, content of contracts signed by project
beneficiaries, export destination, etc.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

       The Moderately Satisfactory rating is given based on the following
considerations:

       (a)     PDO was relevant to the needs of farmers, producers, and exporters, and
               the components were consistent with the project objectives, although the
               institution-building aspects of the project are more suited to a medium- to
               long-term operation rather than to the LIL's scope and timeframe.

       (b)     PDOs were largely achieved, even though many of the critical activities
               were delayed at project start-up. The project, as a LIL, was successful in
               promoting the soft assets: introducing beneficiaries to new markets and
               models, facilitating market access, introducing quality control systems and
               certification, supply chain management and logistics and demonstrating
               areas for business development. These efforts resulted in some signed
               contracts for the farmers and exporters supported by the project, reached
               into new markets with new products, showcased successes for the project,
               improved the level of trust and collaboration between farmers and
               exporters and fostered a positive attitude towards such business
               partnerships. However, for these efforts to be sustainable, they will need
               to be supported with hardware investments (e.g., cool storage, transport).
               The project also made important gains in building human capital (three
               export business developers and 32 TTS trained and put in place); raising
               awareness among farmers on exporting issues (both obstacles and
               opportunities) and introduced environmentally sound use of natural
               resource base (water-use and reduction of pesticides and fertilizer).

       (c)     In terms of technology transfer, the project reached a significant number
               of beneficiaries during implementation (192 farmers with contract farming


                                            12

               arrangements at project closing vs. only 39 engaged in 2004); farmers who
               received TTS training and shifted from traditional to export standards also
               increased from 7 farmers in 2003 to 50 farmers at project closing.
               Similarly, the number of pesticide residue samples that were analyzed
               significantly increased from zero to 572 at project closing.

       (d)     The project was less successful in capturing the project's experience with
               improving export marketing and development of the outgrower system
               due to the severe shortcomings in the implementation of the project's
               M&E.      The project was also set back by weaknesses in project
               management,      including   financial   management       and   procurement
               management systems. Poor M&E is an important missed opportunity for
               any operation, but particularly so for a LIL since there was substantial
               information available at the local level in regions that support the findings
               of project success. The project also overlooked support to the private
               sector and associations, particularly JEPA, which could have improved the
               link between small farmers and large exporters on the private sector side.
               It was also less successful at promoting a bottom-up approach in a top-
               down environment, and where a lack of trust between the public and
               private sector tends to prevail. These constraints contributed to the
               collaboration hurdles across implementation agencies and stakeholders
               which, combined with weak project management, led to delays in project
               execution and outputs. Despite these shortcomings, the project was able
               to capture the importance of critical factors such as the development of
               strong professional organizations, the need to support both software and
               hardware in export marketing, and the importance of human development
               in the provision of public services.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts:

(a)    Poverty Impacts and Gender Aspects

       Poverty Aspects: Under the project, about 250 of the field jobs created were for
Jordanian workers while the other half were for migrant workers, mainly from Egypt.
The salaries paid to the field workers (between US$100-US$200) suggests that it would
be the poorest among the Jordanians who would occupy these jobs.

       Gender Aspects: Most of the 300 off-farm jobs generated under the project were
in the pack-houses (confirmed during field missions) and were filled by women because
of the belief that they are better equipped to handle post-harvest processes, i.e., sorting
and packaging - according to exporter's requirements. This is a positive step since
women are the largest group of unemployed in Jordan.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening:

       The project has had mixed results on changing and strengthening institutional
partners involved in the implementation of activities. JEDCO is an organization that is



                                            13

heavily focused on the development of the industrial and service sectors. Though
agriculture was not its prime focus, it took on the role of developing the private sector at
a time when JEPA was recognized as being too weak to shoulder many of the planned
activities of the project. The capacity of JEDCO was increased during the project, and
the organization has decided to continue to support the horticulture industry but at a
scaled-down level of effort.      In interviews with private sector companies, people
commented that JEDCO was providing benefit to their business success. Their future
impact on the horticulture sector is viewed as relevant.

        JEPA is an association rising in importance for horticulture producers and
exporters. The association has grown over the project period to now having over 150
members. JEPA's Board of Directors and its management have become stronger in their
operational performance. The association has been strengthened, partially as a result of
project activities even though it obtained more direct assistance from other donors. JEPA
members benefited directly through study tours and trainings, but the project did not
directly support its development as an association. The association will continue to
develop and provide support to its members, though they will be the larger producers and
exporters, since JEPA does not have a specific mandate to directly assist small and
medium size producers and exporters.

        The PPD in MOA was a large recipient of funds from the project and the
improvements in the pesticide testing lab is tangible evidence of the project's
intervention. The physical building, equipment and staff training have created a solid
foundation for improving the phytosanitary testing of horticultural products. The final
step of certification of the laboratory will need to be completed if it is to fulfill its full
potential and benefit the export industry.

        Capacity in NCARE has also been developed as a result of the technology transfer
component through hiring and training of TTS and establishment of the Post-harvest
Unit.    The project successfully piloted reforms for farmer-centered market driven
extension systems for horticulture and is now ready for replication on a wider scale.

        AMD in MOA also played a role in horticulture market research and price
collection. This effort will continue and further support will be necessary for it to
complete the database development to a level of satisfaction to be of relative usefulness
to producers and exporters.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

        There were no unexpected positive or negative impacts of the project.


           4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

        Technical factors: The probability is high that importers in the EU and the
Middle East will want more assurances about the safety of fresh products. As a result of


                                             14

the project, producers now have more information about the phytosanitary requirements
in importing countries. The risks are low that Jordan will not be able to comply as
standards become more stringent because of the improvements in laboratory facilities for
testing products. Jordan is ready to comply with the necessary changes as long as it
continues to move toward third party certification of testing facilities at PPD. At the
same time, large producers and exporters will be able to comply with increased standards
while small and medium-size producers may have more difficulty.

        Financial factors:     The availability of credit to small and medium-scale
producers is a factor that will continue to constrain their participation in the export
market channels. The lack of investment capital for cold storage will continue to prevent
small and medium-scale producers to provide the necessary quality.          There are no
appropriate financial institutions that are lending to this group. There is therefore a
moderate risk that these producers will continue to experience a lack of financing,
preventing their participation in the export market system or relegation to the lower
quality end of the market for fresh produce.

        Political factors:  Jordan's horticulture industry faces the risk of changes in
political uncertainty in the region. There will be a moderate risk that borders can be
closed during certain periods (as can happen now in Saudi Arabia). This factor, if it
occurs, will put small and medium-size producers at a higher risk of defaulting on
contracts or bank loans.

        Environmental factors: The horticulture industry faces a significant risk that
water scarcity will become a major factor in the future in the horticulture production
areas. GOJ has already limited issuance of permits for new wells for agricultural use and
the increased demand for water for urban and industrial uses will put pressure on how
water is allocated to agriculture. There is a moderate risk that GOJ will not be proactive
in increasing the budget for applied research on water efficiency.

        Governance factors: Agriculture in general is impacted by GOJ's intervention in
market channels e.g., Amman Central Market taxes are high and regulations can be
burdensome.     There is a moderate risk that GOJ policies will increase with the
interference in controlling how horticulture products are exported through their sponsored
auction market which would reduce potential returns to small scale operators.


        5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

        Low quality at entry and weak preparation affected project implementation and
supervision. In preparing this project, the Bank mobilized considerable financial and
human resources including multi-disciplinary teams and highly qualified consultants


                                            15

covering a wide area of technical expertise. The Bank's performance during preparation
is considered moderately unsatisfactory due to the following: (i) the project was not ready
for implementation at the time of Board presentation; (ii) limited reliance on beneficiary
assessment to gauge interest in the out-grower model and constraints faced by small and
medium-scale farmers; (iii) project objectives were broadly defined without linking to
specific measurable performance indicators; and (iv) outcome indicators were vaguely
defined. An additional shortcoming during project preparation was the absence of clear
M&E indicators. Given the learning goals of the LIL, M&E indicators should have been
ready to launch at effectiveness but the PAD provided little detail on M&E plans.
Additionally, the institutional arrangements were not clearly defined, giving for example
only limited decision-making power to the PCU Director which made the PCU less
effective. Given the complexity and innovative features in the project, effort should have
been made in developing implementation manuals and guidelines for the project activities
and in particular those related to the adaptive technology development and transfer,
capacity building for small farmers and the out-grower model.

        In hindsight, greater emphasis could have been placed on developing institutional
capacity building activities first. Improving the project's institutional arrangements could
have been listed as a condition of effectiveness. To develop institutional capacity
building activities, PHRD grant funds or retroactive financing could have been
mobilized.

(b)     Quality of Supervision:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        The project was approved in June 2002 but did not become effective until January
2003. Bank supervision teams demonstrated flexibility regarding project adjustments and
reacted quickly when, during the initial stages of implementation they addressed issues
regarding project design and the implementing arrangements. The supervision team
carried out extensive consultations with private sector representatives and with individual
farmers and exporters; drafted a set of new monitoring indicators; and organized
stakeholder workshops to discuss contract farming issues, logistical concerns, future
priorities, and steps to move forward, thereafter proposing solutions that were agreeable
to all the parties and thus putting the project back on track.

        The supervision teams also carried out regular missions with the right skill mix
including post harvest technology and supply chain specialists, export and trade
promotion specialists, and pesticide specialists, among others. M&E, despite enormous
efforts by supervision teams, did not progress, leaving the rich and valuable LIL
experience without a database that could have been used to assess financial impact,
export performance, customer feedback, awareness and skill development and
performance on particular key initiatives.

        Project supervision improved considerably after the MTR in June 2005, when
several modifications were made to improve project performance, including




                                              16

establishment of the HEF, as mentioned above, and putting in place some expertise to
reach out more effectively to small and medium-scale farmers and exporters.

        The supervision teams' approach to problem solving was rigorous but was not
appropriately reflected in the Bank's internal Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
during the initial years of project implementation. For example, despite the project's
lukewarm performance, the supervision team never raised any red flags and consistently
gave `satisfactory' ratings in the achievement of PDOs and implementation performance.
It was not until the second quarter of 2006 that the ratings were correctly downgraded to
`moderately satisfactory' with almost 50% of the loan disbursed.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        The rating reflects the Bank's weak performance during project preparation and
moderately satisfactory performance during supervision particularly after MTR. Overall
Bank's performance is therefore rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance:

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

        During project preparation, the government did everything necessary to help
design the project but it underestimated the difficulties in undertaking such an ambitious
project to be completed within the limited timeframe attached to a LIL.

        Soon after project approval, it became apparent that ownership and commitment
by the government, specifically MOA, was lacking. MOA provided only limited support
during implementation to resolve some very persistent issues, some that remained
unresolved until the project closing date. For example, no clearance was provided to
obtain the necessary additional training for the laboratory technicians for them to be able
to certify products for export; similarly, additional M&E expertise was never put in place
in the PCU despite repeated written requests made by various Bank supervision missions.
Likewise, despite recommendations made by the Bank, neither the Procurement nor the
Financial Officer were provided the opportunity to build upon their skills and receive the
necessary training which the Bank considered vital in both preparing and monitoring the
project's transactions.

        Additionally, GOJ's procurement approval procedures were not conducive to
private sector participation resulting in less than optimal outputs. Chronic procurement
delays paralyzed completion of vital project activities. Follow up on project activities
was inadequate and the oversight provided by the Project Steering Committee was
minimal.    For example, the installed laboratory equipment needed fine-tuning and
calibration but MOA provided very little assistance in providing the necessary clearances
to recruit the international consultant (for whom funds were available under the project)


                                             17

despite repeated requests by the Bank supervision teams. Many critical activities such as
the appointment of an M&E Specialist also made it difficult for the supervision teams to
evaluate project impact during the course of the project.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory

        For a project requiring supply-chain coordination, the institutional arrangement
for agency coordination was weak with several government departments and agencies
implementing different activities with unclear linkages between them. The PCU was
ineffective and lacked qualified personnel, especially in M&E.            The implementing
agencies conducted their own activities without obtaining clear signals from the PCU,
which in turn had limited powers. The steps involved in conducting the pilot and
associated responsibilities should have been better allocated and sequenced. The
leadership provided by the Steering Committee was limited. MOA and MOPIC provided
only little oversight throughout the life of the project which resulted in significant delays.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Borrower's performance suffered because of its modest commitment to the project at
the ministerial level. GOJ failed to move decisively to follow up on numerous written
recommendations made through Bank management letters.


                                6. LESSONS LEARNED

The project, through all its successes and failures, yielded important lessons on how
to improve production and marketing of horticultural exports. Within the project,
what worked best, and least, depended on the crop produced, the market targeted or the
technology promoted, the kind of supply-chain bottlenecks faced during implementation,
and how these were overcome as well as the degree of maturity reached in the project.
However, good and bad practices can be identified within a specific range of dimensions
covering institutional development, public service delivery, support for soft and assets
and hardware, and performance evaluation as follows:

        (a)     The first lesson is that a clustering approach emphasizing
                collaboration among members of a grouping to achieve objectives that
                are beyond the capabilities of individual farmers or exporters is a
                requirement in horticulture. The project attempted indeed to link small
                farmers to larger farmers and exporters. Different arrangements have been
                experimented with.      Those arrangements based on verbal or written
                forward contracts for predetermined quantities and quality without prior
                training of the contract farmers in production requirements failed to yield
                outcomes satisfactory to both parties. Alternatively, arrangements with an
                exporter renting land from a farmer and co-managing it with the owner


                                              18

    with the assistance from a supply-chain manager was more successful. At
    the end of season, the exporter shares the cost and returns with the owner
    and based on this information, a real written contract is entered into with
    the farmer becoming responsible for the management with the support of a
    supply-chain manager. Another successful arrangement involved contract
    farmers undertaking a trial production on a small area with supply-chain
    management, technical support and a formalization into a contract on a
    larger scale for the subsequent seasons.         Replication of the above
    successful arrangements on a larger scale require setting up strong
    professional organizations at the production level that would jointly
    develop new cropping systems, integrate production and processing and
    enter marketing arrangements as a formalized group. The experience with
    some of the HEPTT promoted organisations has shown that producers
    must be formally organized if they are to defend their bargaining power
    with the local and/or international traders.

(b) Delivery of services for promotion: Research and extension remains
    an important role for the public sector. However, to keep up with the
    continual changes in the horticultural market, the public sector
    cannot afford to stay behind in terms of service quality. The public
    sector cannot be a catalyst for exporters and farmers if the skills it offers
    are of questionable value, and the services it provides are not timely and
    not adapted to the specific circumstances of horticultural marketing. The
    key concern for the public sector with improving marketing is the
    commercialization of the rural economy. This involves finding out what
    the customer wants and helping to setup the production/marketing system
    which supplies that demand and maximizes income. The lesson learned in
    HEPTT is that the public sector is in a position to build the technological
    capacity of farmers and the marketing capacity of exporters if it starts by
    building its own capacity either hiring the right profiles in good
    agricultural practices, modern technology and trade logistics or by out-
    sourcing some of its services to the private sector.

(c) Experience in the project suggests also that improving marketing and
    production requires a good mix of both soft and hard assets. In its
    design, HEPTT did not make funds available for construction of necessary
    infrastructure to better link small and medium producers to exporters or
    directly to importers. This was consistent with previous World Bank
    lending putting less stress on "hard" investments and more on "software".
    The quality of the fresh fruit and vegetable is high when the product is in
    the field, but once picked the quality can reduce rapidly. Pre-cooling
    units, packing houses and refrigerated transport can be important
    investments that stimulates the formation of producer groups.          New
    infrastructure, like a pack house, can create multiple financial and social
    benefits for producers and their communities. In retrospect, investment in
    soft assets should have been combined with capital investments in
    infrastructure, trucks, etc. that would have resulted in tangible


                                 19

                improvements in the supply chain. The World Bank has a good example,
                e.g.,   Senegal's      Agricultural     Export     Promotion      Project3 where
                infrastructure improvements resulted in tangible marketing opportunities.

        (d)     Performance evaluation has proved to be a challenging task for the
                project. There is a need for a more systematic approach in assessing
                performance if Export Promotion and Development (EPD) activities
                are to have a substantial impact on Jordan's horticulture
                competitiveness. In this project we found that while evaluation was seen
                as important, the project and its implementing agencies struggled with the
                concept. While recognizing the difficulties in the area of M&E, this
                review uncovered a number of interesting lessons relevant to the specific
                nature of horticulture marketing. Unlike industrial projects, the success of
                an agricultural project is tied to being timely and responsive to both the
                market demands and compatibility with seasonal requirements for
                production. Missing a production or market window creates disruptions
                during a limited project horizon and necessary activities can be delayed
                until the next season. Critical decision points have to be identified and
                tracked with significant amounts of planning to execute a successful
                agricultural project based on evaluation of previous experiences.
                Similarly, the project suffered from a lack of preparedness and the ability
                of project staff to react to crises. Producers and exporters said they were
                reluctant to engage in project activities because of too many false-starts.
                For example, several trial shipments and promotional activities in
                European trade fairs conducted at different years repeated the same
                mistakes (e.g., disruptions in the cold chain) and prompted project
                stakeholders to ask "Didn't we learn anything from the previous time
                when this happened"?

For the little M&E work conducted, there was too much focus on inputs (number of fairs,
number of farms visited, number of workshops) when there was an opportunity to
emphasize customer satisfaction and seek to ensure that increasing numbers of exporters
and farmers were satisfied with JEDCO's and NCARE's efforts.                        Following an
appropriate time lag measurement must be undertaken systematically after services are
rendered. The few reports written after EDP activities were completed but remained
sitting on the shelf. Attaining best practice will require that M&E be viewed not as the
policing of EDP activities but as a tool for awareness building and a system to increase
accountability in the delivery of services.

A follow-on operation could capitalize on these lessons by including support to
producers/exporters associations, and in particular the commodity specific groupings,
targeted credit for post-harvest infrastructure coupled with a strong branding/certification
strategy and a better coordination of inputs, transport, storage, credit and post-harvest
facilities. This should be based on improving the degree of coordination both across
government departments and agencies and between promotion and technology transfer


3Senegal Agricultural Export Promotion Project (P051610), ICR dated December 23, 2004.


                                                 20

activities, and a higher scale of partnership with the private sector. Fragmentation of
effort in both promotion and technology transfer from having too many targets (crops,
markets, production regions, technologies) must be dealt with swiftly so as not to
undermine the export promotion and technology transfer agencies' or program's chances
of success.




                                           21

   7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
                                   AGENCIES/PARTNERS


The National Centre For Agricultural Research and Extension
                                        (NCARE)

Review of the Quality of the World Bank's Implementation Completion
                                      Report (ICR)

                                         Reviewer:


                               Dr. Mustafa A.H. Rawashdeh


The World Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Horticultural Export
Promotion and Technology Transfer Project (HEPTTP) is presented in fair manner. In
preparing the report, the Bank's team has used different resources, including: the project
progress reports, and interview with stakeholders, government officials, operators of the
project implementation agencies, and the Bank's Mid-Term Review (MTR). It addresses
the following:

· A review of the project's accomplishments. The ICR provides , to a fair extent, a
    clear, concise description of the project's accomplishments ,
· Descriptions of what has been done to achieve the set up objectives. The report does
    in a fair manner document the accomplishments made by the project,
· Methods or principles used for the project. In a fair way, the report      explains or
    discusses the methods or principles used for the project,
· The Bank's individual assessment of the methods or principles . The report addresses
    in a fair way the effectiveness of the chosen methods,
· Lessons learned and recommendations. The way the report introduces and discusses
    the lessons learned can be rated as fair..
· Report's summary and recommendation. The report provides a short summary of the
    content in a recommendation form.

Both the government's and Bank's ICRs are similar in reviewing the project's
accomplishments, methods used for the project, and the lessons learned, while they differ
in style, and the amounts of details and discussions embodied/used. .




                                              22

                  ANNEX 1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a)    Project Cost by Component

                                        Appraisal   Actual /Latest Percentage
                                        Estimate       Estimate        of
              Components              (US$ million)  (US$ million)  Appraisal
1. Horticultural Export Promotion
 (a) JEDCO Export Promotion              1.65          1.18         72%
 (b) MOA Marketing Department            0.61          0.19         31%
                                         2.26          1.37         61%
2. Strengthening Technology Support      2.36          1.37         58%
Services: Technology Development
and Transfer
3. Quality Testing and Export            1.06          0.65         61%
Certification Services
4. Project Coordination Unit             0.84          0.91        108%

                   Total Project Costs   6.52          4.30         66%
Front-end fee (IBRD only)                0.05          0.05        100%
            Total Financing Required     6.57          4.35        66%

(b)    Financing

                                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage
                            Type of     Estimate       Estimate        of
   Source of Funds         Financing   (US$ million)  (US$ million) Appraisal
Government                                1.37
IBRD                                      5.00          3.90        78%
Local Farmer                              0.20           n/a         n/a
Organization
                                Total:    6.57




                                       23

                     ANNEX 2: OUTPUT BY COMPONENTS



Component 1: Horticultural Export Promotion

        This component met the majority of its targets during the project period. Three
functions were targeted to improve exports in promotion, capacity building and advocacy
as follows:

        (a)   Promotion: The promotional activities (see Table 2.1) were designed to
              provide export advisory services to the beneficiaries to take advantage of
              market opportunities.    Much of the technical work completed in this
              component      dealt   with   promotions,    market    investigations, and
              communications as follows:

              (i)     Promotions: Producers and exporters participated in trade fairs
                      mainly in the EU. Respondents had a generally favorable response
                      to these fairs and twenty five contracts were signed from these
                      visits.  JEDCO arranged for 22 study tours involving 168
                      participants that resulted in 52 signed contracts. Respondents'
                      opinions were mixed on the organization and quality of these tours
                      with comments that the teams did not meet key businessmen but
                      rather government officials. Many of the participants were not
                      qualified to attend and selection of the team was not transparent.
                      The larger producers and exporters tended to dominate the team
                      with more frequency in visits. Several of the events were poorly
                      organized or were less than optimal with participants not meeting
                      with the most appropriate businesses. The details on the contracts
                      signed are not known to determine their significance and if they
                      led to sustained business or were just "one off" trade events.

              (ii)    Market Investigations: JEDCO conducted six market studies for
                      the Czech Republic/Slovakia, France, Greece, the Netherlands,
                      Romania and the United Kingdom. Although these studies were
                      useful for obtaining entry into a specific market and for making
                      market concentration decisions, there is no indication as to how
                      much influence the reports had on producers and exporters. Prices
                      were collected in import markets and stored in a database for
                      research purposes and to share with JEPA members, but it seems
                      that information collected was not effectively disseminated.
                      JEDCO would have benefited from having a horticultural business
                      advisor who could insure proper use of market investigations.
                      AMD conducted three studies on supply analysis on tomatoes,
                      eggplants and peaches. They collected prices as averages without


                                           24

                     reflecting the differences in grades and quality of product being
                     sold and there is limited indication that those inputs have been
                     effectively used by the targeted beneficiaries.

              (iii)  Communications:       The    project    completed    the   following
                     communication products: database of 400 producers; promotional
                     materials for trade fairs produced; post harvest atlas; brochures;
                     Boustan Al Ordan (the Garden of Jordan) Newsletter; monthly
                     prices in key markets; trade fair programs; National Manual of
                     Horticulture products; producer and exporter directory; webpage;
                     and HEF brochures. The project conducted 69 workshops with
                     over 950 participants. Workshops were conducted after producers
                     and exporters made study tours and attended trade fairs. A website
                     was maintained to post information and communicate with
                     members and announce export promotions of Jordanian produce
                     and included a database of existing large-scale farms and
                     showcasing their products through virtual exhibitions. The project
                     took the Comité de Liaison Europe-Afrique-Caraïbes-Pacifique
                     (COLEACP) Harmonization Framework for ACP Codes of
                     Practice.   It simplified it, harmonized it and translated it into
                     Arabic to form a National Manual of uniform industry standards
                     for fresh produce destined at Jordanian exporters. The manual was
                     completed and 16,000 copies were printed. The national manual is
                     to be updated annually.

       Table 2.1: Promotion activities conducted by JEDCO during life of project

                                            Jordanian          Foreign       Contracts
Promotion Type                Number       Participants        Buyers          Signed
Trade fairs                       9              53                -             25
Study tours                      22             168                -             52
Buyer visits                      6             180               77             21
Trial shipments                  20              20                -              8
Workshops after promotion        69             950                -              -
events
Market research reports           6               -                -              5
Totals                          132            1,371              77             111

       (b)    Capacity Building: Small and medium-scale producers and their
              exporters received benefits in building their capacity for exporting. There
              were approximately 275 small and medium-size producers that were
              engaged in supplying the export market either directly or through an
              exporter. They exported 11,000 Mt in 2007 with an estimated value of
              US$10.5 million. It can be assumed that they gained practical knowledge
              in the simple workings of the export markets in quality standards,


                                           25

    packaging and pricing. An exporter of Hungarian peppers mentioned that
    if a farmer's consignment had more than 3 percent rejects, the entire load
    would be rejected. Payment on quality grades would be instrumental in
    improving producer practices to meet quality and grade standards.
    Producers have to understand the importance of obtaining refrigerated
    transport from Jordan to Eastern European markets.

    The project lacked a financial services component which is considered
    important in exporting for start-up companies and small scale production
    operations. To what extent small and medium-size producers gained from
    workshops is unclear because of the limited analysis provided by the
    M&E component.

    HEF: Based on the lack of success with improving small and medium-
    size farmers in the out-grower scheme, the HEF was created to directly
    assist them with grants and business services.            Three business
    development specialists were hired within JEDCO to develop business
    plans. The team worked on 16 business plans, and at the time of project
    closure 9 had been successfully implemented whereby groups of
    farmers/exporters have been formed and activities initiated. Development
    of business plans would be instructive for training producers in export
    marketing. The 9 business plans implemented covered a total of 250 ha
    and involved 115 farmers producing 6,575 Mt of fruits and vegetables. In
    the short time that the HEF operated, there is no clear evidence that
    significant impact occurred partly because of the late start-up in the
    project.   The business plan approach helped focus on producing for
    specific market opportunities and offered a positive approach to assisting a
    group of producers with an export product to capture a market
    opportunity.

(c) Advocacy: A proactive policy environment in Jordan is necessary to
    induce competition, increase production and efficiencies, and strengthen
    the private sector. The project was to address constraints to exports such
    as setting minimum standards for horticulture exports, implementing
    identity preservation, revision of the tax code, improving collateralizing
    loans for horticulture production and exports, design export financing
    schemes, enforcing trade contracts, creating access to transparent market
    information, advocating for chemical protocols with importing countries
    (Hungary and Romania), removing packaging restrictions, addressing
    water usage costs and creating export friendly policies in conformance
    with the World Trade Organization. Even a few policy successes by the
    project would have strengthened the horticulture sector to be competitive
    with other exporting countries in the Middle East region. The role of the
    private sector and its main association, JEPA, was not encouraged or
    supported to conduct policy advocacy.




                                 26

Component 2:       Strengthening Technology Support Services:                Technology
Development and Transfer

      This component addressed the second overall objective of the project for delivery
of appropriate technologies to small and medium-size farmers, under three sub-
components:

      (a)    Adaptive Technology Development and Transfer: Jordan has a unique
             advantage in horticulture production with the lowland (Jordan Valley) and
             the highland agro-climatic zones for adapting new varieties. Horticulture
             producers can penetrate market windows in import countries at different
             times of the year from these different zones. The production areas are
             within a relatively short distance of Amman's central wholesale market
             and the international airport. Producers can easily transport products by
             air to the Gulf or Western European markets or by road to the Gulf and
             Eastern European markets.

             These comparative production and marketing advantages did not drive the
             focus of the adaptive research and outreach program. Adaptive research
             on suitable crops for the market windows would have been important for
             producers in these agro-climatic zones. The CRGF for both on-station and
             on-farm experiments was not targeted to support small, medium or large
             growers in these zones. The rate of increase in salinity in the soil makes it
             even more imperative that new salt tolerant varieties are developed and
             tested.   The project did not sufficiently address this problem.        The
             competitive research studies were delayed with only four completed out of
             a total of 100 proposals received; and finally, the research grant program
             was cancelled. However, sixteen crop protocols were completed, and
             disseminated to farmers.

             Private seed companies, like Syngenta, are active working with large
             producers providing improved seed varieties that match end-market
             requirements. The project did engage a strawberry specialist from the
             University of California at Davis to bring new cultivars to Jordan.
             However, a large Jordanian strawberry producer indicated he has
             developed his own sources of strawberry varieties.

             The greater use of water and soil testing through the efforts of TTS made a
             difference to farm planning and resulted in production impacts. A major
             producer reported that the quality of products has increased significantly
             because of water and soil testing facilitated by the TTS. A farm manager
             in the Safi Region reported that using soil testing for better fertilizer
             applications saw yields increase by 50 percent in some areas of the farm.

      (b)    Capacity Building for Small and Medium-Scale Farmers: The project
             was designed to support large producers/exporters to link up with small
             and medium scale farmers to achieve supply. No data was reported in



                                          27

    2003 on existing linkages between large producers or exporters and small
    and medium-scale farmers. In 2004 there were four producer/exporters
    that reported contracting with 31 small and medium- scale farmers. In
    2007, seventeen producer/exporters reported contracting with 201 small
    and medium- scale farmers.

    Some exporters mentioned they will            Emerging Exporters
    contract with additional farmers in 2008.     A few exporter-entrepreneurs are
    A mid-course correction was approved          emerging.    These exporters are
    by all stakeholders to employ a supply        linking with producers through
    chain champion to work with jump-             contract     arrangements    for
    starting these supply chain contracts but     Hungarian peppers, okra and
    the person was never hired. Training of       chilies for the EU market. These
    small and medium-scale farmers through        exporters are relying on prior

    workshops and demonstration trials on         contacts in Hungary and the

    large export farms helped to improve on-      United Kingdom to build an
                                                  export program that is based on
    farm practices in GAP and post-harvest.       mutual     trust  and   personal
    No groups of small farmers received           connections.    Exporters report
    EurepGAP certification while larger           increasing number of contractors
    farming operations did. Some exporters        and increased export volumes.
    formed groups and provided their own
    technical specialists.

    The project was not designed to facilitate financial lending for small and
    medium-scale farmers to invest in production, pre-cooling, pack-houses or
    transportation. The project was designed more for soft investments in
    support of delivery of marketing and technology transfer. Through this
    project, we have learned that without financial resources, capacity
    building training of small and medium scale farmers would have limited
    impact.

(c) TTS: There was a change in the technical design to employ 32 TTS
    instead of the 16 planned. Too many people were dispersed across five
    regions which meant that critical results expected under this LIL could
    have been better by more narrowly focusing. The hiring of TTS was
    delayed because of a lack of candidates and then further delays were
    encountered in arranging the training courses, especially international
    studies. According to the Technical Transfer leader, the TTS were not
    mobilized until January, 2005. At the end of the project, TTS hired as full
    staff at NCARE returned to desk activities and their cell phones,
    computers, cameras and flash disks were removed to the central
    administration. This showed a lack of resources and possible interest of
    the implementing agency to pursue the model.

    TTS conducted 117 workshops for 127 farmers and helped to facilitate
    water and soil tests which resulted in better yields and reduced costs per
    dunum.     Some of the TTS helped larger producers to enroll farm


                                28

                operations in EurepGAP.        When the project closed, 16 farmers are
                certified and 34 farmers are in the process of being certified.

                Rapid removal of field heat is a critical factor for quality export produce,
                and this was not effectively addressed by the TTS. A mobile pre-cooler
                developed by NCARE was too small to be practical and a shade structure
                was ineffective. Both were not cost effective for small and medium scale
                farmers.

Component 3: Quality Testing and Export Certification Services

        Support was provided to PPD to improve capacity for testing pesticide residues
and heavy metals to certify the safety of horticulture products.

Pesticide Residue and Heavy Metal Laboratories: Support was provided to PPD to
certify products for entry into import markets, primarily the EU. The project and the
Government made important improvements in laboratories and the necessary
international protocols. In 2007, the laboratories undertook tests on 97 samples for
export certificates, and 453 samples of produce from the wholesale market. In the first
three months of 2008, and after the project closed, 22 samples of produce for export have
been tested and 224 samples were tested from the wholesale market.

Equipment was also purchased for both of the laboratories and training was conducted.
However, staff commented that further training is needed in both laboratories. Again,
three months after the closing date, some of the equipment purchased for the heavy
metals laboratory is not functioning because of the lack of training. The turnaround time
for processing heavy metal samples is still long and the number of necessary tests cannot
be conducted efficiently. PPD is proposing to obtain ISO17025 certification for the
heavy metals laboratory.

The pesticide formulation laboratory was separated from the pesticide residue testing
laboratory with the construction of a new building. The required equipment is in place
but the laboratory lacks key technical protocols, e.g., measuring and balancing the
equipment, selecting and training a quality assurance person, and the accreditation by an
external third party for ISO17025 certification. Consequently, international certificates
needed for markets in EU countries cannot be issued to exporters. In addition, these
certificates will eventually be required for the Gulf markets.

Airport Cargo Handling Facilities:         The Cargo Department of RJA at Amman's
international airport has been improved with the privatization of the airline. The storage
facilities and handling systems have also been upgraded. Although these improvements
were not funded under the project, the Head of the Cargo Department is encouraging the
produce exporters to adopt 100 percent palletizing which would reduce the receiving time
from six hours to as short as three hours before plane departure.

Produce is still arriving at the airport too warm to be of the high quality required for
export. The Cargo Department began to take temperature readings on produce entering
the cargo facilities in September, 2007. These readings, which are used to protect cargo


                                              29

from damaged claims, can be high for some produce indicating that the product will not
be acceptable to the importing agent. Although the project did fund the purchase of the
thermal blankets under this component as a means to improving the cold chain process,
they proved to be expensive and not sufficiently effective as a means of heat protection
for products held in the warehouse before delivery. The cargo representatives said that
the thermal blankets were in fact raising the core temperature of the products.

A positive development is that members of the board of JEPA and the staff of the cargo
facilities meet monthly to discuss issues related to the handling of fresh produce and.
Some positive changes have resulted from these regular meetings.

Component 4: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)

The PCU's role was to oversee project implementation and monitor project progress and
achievements. The PCU had a Project Coordinator, an Accountant, a Procurement
Specialist and two M&E Specialists.

The M&E Unit did not provide the necessary information to properly design, analyze,
monitor, implement and control the technical activities conducted in Components 1, 2
and 3.

The PCU did not employ a Supply Chain `Champion' to work with stakeholders in the
value chain. This person would have provided the necessary guidance to stakeholders in
different commodity market channels.           This person would have proposed and
implemented targeted interventions in specific value chains of horticultural products
which would have been identified in Component 1.




                                            30

               ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

       The goal of the project was to increase exports by small and medium-scale
farmers through linkage to larger producer/exporters with the help of the delivery of
improved technology.      According to JEDCO's records, there were 192 small and
medium-scale farmers that were engaged as contractees in 2007. This group represents
the baseline for economic and financial analysis.

       In 2004 there were 20 contract farmers. The number increased each year to 2007
but at a decreasing rate. If the project had continued, the number would have continued
to increase but at a lower growth rate. For the purpose of this analysis, the number of
contractees is assumed to remain at the 2007 figure until the end of the forecast period in
2012. As the number of contractees increased starting in 2004, so did the volume of
horticulture products being exported. In 2004, the quantity of exports was 1,076 Mt, and
it increased each year to 2007 when it was 6,979 Mt.            The volume supplied by
contractees increased each year of the project and at an increasing rate with the greatest
increase occurring in 2007.

       The value of the contractees' exports increased from US$751,740 in 2004 to
US$7,204,000. The incremental value of exports increased between 2004 to 2005 and
from 2005 to 2006. From 2006 to 2007 the value increased by the similar amount as the
previous year indicating a possible leveling off in the expansion rate. The rate of
expansion in the last year was US$2.431 million.

       Based on the information provided by JEDCO on the 192 contractees and the
information from World Bank reports, an economic analysis was conducted on the
project using the 192 small and medium-scale farmers. Certainly other benefits could be
measured, e.g., to other groups and the impact of laboratories, but these impacts would be
more subjective in nature.

       Without the project, the 192 producers would have sold exclusively in the local
market, probably the Amman central market. The product would likely have been of
lower quality because of the lack of project assistance from both TTS and exporters
themselves providing technical improvements.        For the purpose of estimation, the
average size holding per farmer was 3 ha and produced an estimated 6 Mt per ha in
horticulture products. Since no baseline information was available on the small and
medium scale farmers, an estimate is used.            The 192 producers would have
approximately US$1.2 million in net returns without project assistance.

       With project assistance, the small and medium-scale farmers would have seen
increased incremental value of their products that were sold in the export market.
JEDCO data estimates that the incremental value of the exports from small and medium-
scale farmers increased. The economic analysis included project cost but not the interest
paid on the loan. The NPV was US$5.72 million based on an opportunity cost of funds
of 10 percent. The IRR was estimated at 33 percent.


                                            31

        When considering the interest paid on the loan by the government in the financial
analysis, the NPV of the project, assuming a similar 10 percent opportunity cost of
capital, was estimated to be US$3.62 million and the IRR was estimated at 22 percent.

        Based upon the above estimates, it can be concluded that the Bank loan resulted
in positive benefits to the country of Jordan. The weakness in this analysis is that actual
baseline information on the small and medium-scale farmers contractees were not
collected to accurately estimate what the incremental benefits of the project were to small
and medium-size farmers from the project.




                                            32

                    Annex 3 - Table 1: Production, Yield and Financial Estimates for Farmers with Benefits from HEPTT Project


Without Project - year                  1          2           3           4           5          6           7         8         9       10

Year                                2003       2004        2005        2006        2007       2008        2009      2010      2011      2012

Farmers not engaged in the

    project (number)                  192       192          192        192          192       192          192      192       192       192

Area ­ ha                               3          3           3           3           3          3           3         3         3        3

Total area - ha                       576        576         576         576         576       576          576      576       576       576

Mt/ha                                   6          6           6           6          6           6           6        6         6         6

Total quantity in Mt                3,456      3,456       3,456       3,456       3,456     3,456       3,456     3,456     3,456     3,456

Gross margin - JD/kg                  0.3        0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3        0.3         0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3

Total JD                        1,036,800  1,036,800   1,036,800  1,036,800   1,036,800  1,036,800   1,036,800  1,036,800 1,036,800 1,036,800

Total US$ Baseline without

   project (US$)               1,481,143   1,481,143   1,481,143  1,481,143   1,481,143  1,481,143   1,481,143  1,481,143 1,481,143 1,481,143

Gross margin per farmer (US$)       7,714      7,714       7,714       7,714       7,714     7,714       7,714     7,714     7,714     7,714

Gross margin per ha (US$)           2,571      2,571       2,571       2,571       2,571     2,571       2,571     2,571     2,571     2,571




                                                                          33

                    Annex 3: Table 2. Production, Yield and Financial Estimates for Farmers Receiving Benefits of the HEPTT Project


With Project - Year                               1        2         3           4           5         6            7          8         9       10

Year                                           2003    2004      2005        2006        2007       2008        2009       2010      2011      2012

Farmers enjoined into project activities (no.)   0       20        75         156         192        192          192       192       192       192

Amount sold by contractees

    (JEDCO database) (Mt)                        0    1,076     2,138       3,405       6,979      6,979        6,979     6,979     6,979     6,979

Growth in contract amount (Mt change)                            1,062       1,267      3,574          0            0          0         0         0

Incremental Value of Contracted Crops (US$)       0  526,219 1,452,847   3,341,236   5,043,443 5,043,443   5,043,443   5,043,443 5,043,443 5,043,443


Incremental difference with and without

    project (US$)                                0  -954,924   -28,296   1,860,093   3,562,300 3,562,300   3,562,300   3,562,300 3,562,300 3,562,300




                                                                        34

                                          Annex 3: Table 3. Economic and Financial Analysis with Project Costs


                                               1         2           3         4            5          6           7        8         9        10
Year                                       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007        2008        2009      2010      2011      2012
Project Costs
Exporters' Investment (World Bank
    evaluation 11/07) US$                                    2,634,280              400,000
HEPTT Investment (World Bank
   evaluation 11/07) US$                  60,000  1061766     1061766    1061766    1061766
Sub-total for economic analysis US$       60,000  1,061,766  3,696,046 1,061,766   1,461,766
Interest paid on the HEPTT funds
    (World Bank study) US$                     0   734,134     699,806   531,715    434,250      326,579     207,633   76,232
Sub-total for financial analysis US$      60,000  1,795,900  4,395,852 1,593,481   1,896,016     326,579     207,633   76,232         0         0


Economic Analysis
Incremental Net benefits from
    exports under HEPTT US$              -60,000 -2,016,690 -3,724,342   798,327   2,100,534   3,562,300   3,562,300 3,562,300 3,562,300 3,562,300
NPV at 10%                            $5,715,022
IRR                                        33%


Financial Analysis
Incremental Net benefits from
    exports under HEPTT US$              -60,000 -2,750,824 -4,424,148   266,612   1,666,284   3,235,721   3,354,667 3,486,068 3,562,300 3,562,300
                         NPV at 10%   $3,623,265
                                  IRR      22%




                                                                           35

     ANNEX 4: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION
                                        PROCESSES

        (a) Task Team members

           Names                  Title           Unit        Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending

Tijan M. Sallah         Lead Operations Officer MNSRE   Team Leader

Petros Aklilu           Sector Manager           MNSRE  Advisor

Sherif Arif             Regional Environment     MNSRE  Environmental Reviewer
                        Coordinator

Tesfaye Asfaw           Consultant               MNSRE  Export/Trade Promotion Inst. Specialist

Amer Jabarin            Consultant               MNSRE  Institutional Aspects

John Edmunds            Consultant               MNSRE  Pesticide Specialist

Alan Legge              Consultant               MNSRE  Post Harvest Technology/Supply Chain

Nejdet Al-Salihi        Procurement Specialist   MNSRE  Procurement/Irrigation Issues

John Keith Rennie       Social Scientist         MNSRE  Social Issues

Meskerem Brhane         Social Scientist         MNSRE  Social Issues

Steven Jaffee           Sr. Agribusiness Special ARD    Peer Reviewer

Ayman Abu-Haija         Financial Management     MNAFM  Financial Management/Disbursement
                        Specialist (FMS)

Andrina Ambrose         Sr. Disbursement         LOA    Disbursement Issues
                        Officer

Shawki Barghouti        Consultant              RDV     Agriculture Research Advisor

Cornelius van der Meer  Agribusiness Advisor    RDV     Peer Reviewer

Eija Pehu               Agriculture Advisor      RDV    Peer Reviewer




                                            36

       Names                     Title               Unit                 Responsibility/ Specialty

Supervision/ICR

Nabil Chaherli       Sr. Sector Economist        MNSSD       Task Team Leader

Christine Allan      Operations Analyst          MNSSD       Operations Support and Editor of Implementation
                                                             Completion and Results Report

Lucie Tran           Operations Officer          MNSSD       Implementation Completion Report

Hyacinth D. Brown    Sr. Finance Officer         LOAFC       Disbursement Issues

Diana El Masri       Financial Management        MNAFM       Financial Management/Disbursement
                     Specialist FMS

Mona El-Chami        Financial Management        MNAFM       Financial Management/Disbursement
                     Specialist FMS

Lina Fares           Procurement Specialist      MNAPR       Procurement

Nadia Gouhier        Procurement Analyst         MNAPR       Procurement

Hamid Alavi          Private Sector Development MNSED        Trade Facilitation Coordination
                     Specialist

Matthias Grueninger Rural Dev. Specialist        MNSRE       Task Team Leader

Tesfaye Asfaw        Consultant                  MNSRE       Export/Trade Promotion Inst. Specialist

Alan Legge           Consultant                  MNSRE       Post Harvest Technology/Supply Chain

Amer Jabarin         Consultant                  MNSRE       Institutional Aspects

John Edmunds         Consultant                  MNSRE       Pesticide Specialist

Gregory Sullivan     Supply Chain Specialist     Consultant Implementation Completion Report

Richard James        Operations Consultant       Consultant Implementation Completion Report

Hassan El-Attir      Agricultural Research       FAO         Agriculture Development
                     Specialist                  Consultant

Jens Kristensen      Agriculture Development     FAO         Agriculture Development
                     Specialist                  Consultant


       (b)     Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                               US$ Thousands
       Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Staff Weeks          (including travel & consultant costs)
  Lending
              FY2002                            26                                  102.5
                        TOTAL:                  26                                  102.5
  Supervision/ICR
         FY2003 ­ FY2008                       130                                 647.85
                         TOTAL                 130                                 647.85



                                                    37

            ANNEX 5: BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

A workshop on ensuring sustainability of the HEPTTP achievements was held in
Amman Jordan on March 22, 2007. The objective of the workshop was to identify
the implementation challenges of the project and make recommendations to overcome
them. The workshop was organized by the PCU and was attended by 33 participants
from various project implementing agencies, representatives from the private sector
and the stakeholders from GOJ. The following is a summary of what was discussed:

Key Groups and Points Discussed

    Contracting Constraints

    -  Securing sufficient small scale growers to participate
    -  Mistrust between farmer and exporter, and vice-versa ­ overcome with
       business plan to a defined marketing opportunity
    -  Many potential beneficiary farmers are risk averse
    -  Dispute resolution - need experts ­ legally backed to deliver legal and fast
       resolution
    -  Specimen contracts ­ legal contract ­ Government supervision
    -  Create awareness of the importance of contract farming
    -  A fast study is needed to identify what small and medium-farmers see as risk,
       what are their fears? What process would overcome this?
    -  Need to solve bottleneck constraints for exporters, to allow them to honor
       contracts ­ and customer orders
    -  Transparency in all dealings

    Service Delivery Constraints

    -  Logistics availability
    -  Market requirements
    -  Supply-chain management
    -  Buyer Awareness of Jordan as a potential supplier
    -  EurepGAP knowledge
    -  Finding expertise to develop business plans
    -  Delivery of training on a just-in-time basis
    -  Post-harvest Unit working and delivering services
    -  Provision of services to farmers (workshops), exporters (study tours), and
       importers (buyer missions)
    -  TTS hands-on delivery of technology
    -  Extension via TV/radio/newspaper and mail shots
    -  Role of private sector ­ partnership with public sector
    -  Market information system




                                    38

Project Software

-  Persuading research and development to re-orient towards demand-driven
   research provision
-  Flow of information vertically and horizontally
-  How implementing agencies can work smoothly together
-  Process for PCU staff to follow up activities and obtain required information
   from staff in other agencies
-  Transparency and confidence are key words in implementation

Finance

-  Cover major infrastructure gaps ­ cost sharing
-  Cooling facilities/cold stores ­ more needed in all regions ­ fixed and portable
-  Packing or packhouses ­ better arrangements needed
-  Access to affordable finance for farmers
-  Incentives to attain the purposes set out by GOJ ­ infrastructure
-  GOJ intends to establish four packing houses/cooling centers. Question: who
   should manage/run these centers?

Producer Organizations and Bodies

-  Aggregate around existing infrastructure in an area
-  Farmers need exporters to move their product to overseas markets
-  A bad history exists around loans to farmers
-  Need to create marketing unions to control members' production ­ need
   incentives from GOJ and extension support
-  Specialized farmers' unions are needed ­ their role is in specialized crop
   production
-  Champion farmers are needed and encouraged to lead others by being given
   `authority'
-  Provide real examples from Jordan of the value added by grading and
   exporting

Standards

-  Quality ­ Class I, Class II, etc.
-  Safety - laboratory services ­ pesticide residue testing
-  Heavy metal screening
-  Microbial contamination checks
-  Safety ­ field ­ need JordanGAP defined, using existing legislation, to assure
   food safety. It could be signified by a logo on certified produce
-  Hygiene ­ BRC standards for European export packhouses, Jordanian
   protocol should be defined to ensure compliance with every relevant aspect of
   Jordanian law
-  The above standards would require a mechanism for enforcement




                                 39

- Standards of exports to Gulf markets need enforcement to prevent the export
  of sub-standard produce, which devalues the Jordanian name and the
  country's reputation on those markets

Umbrella Organization for the Actors

- Need to gather all stakeholders into one structure ­ the Agricultural Champion
  (farmers, GOJ, exporters, unions, research, extension, etc.)
- GOJ umbrella for legislation and regulation
- Non-Govermental Organization/private sector organization
- Use the Jordan Upgrading and Modernization Program style of structure ­ it
  should be a private sector run organization
- A private national marketing company is necessary
- There is a need for a national Agricultural Marketing Organization
- Need less GOJ involvement

Implementation issues

- Capacity of institutions to deliver to organizations
- Writing up the lessons learned and quantifying the benefits delivered by the
  project.




                               40

ANNEX 6. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON
                     DRAFT ICR




                       41

        HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN ­MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MOA)
                                                                   THE WORLD BANK




             JORDANIAN HORTICULTURAL EXPORTS
      PROMOTION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
                                             PROJECT (HEPTTP),


           A PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)




                               Prepared by:


Dr. Mustafa A.H. Rawashdeh (Head of the Postharvest research Division at NCARE)




                                                                           March, 2008




                                   42

                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

· Key Data Sheet                          3
· List of Abbreviation                    4
1. Introduction                           5
2. Project Assumptions                    6
3. Opportunities for Strengthening        8
    Project Impacts and
    Sustainability

4. Project Relevance                      8
5. Target Groups Prioreties               9
6. Project Outputs                        10
7. Project Inputs                         13
8. Financial Management and               13
    Disbursement
9. Impact Assessment                      14
10. Lessons Learned and                   15
    Recommendations
11. Ratings of Bank and Borrower          16
    Performance
                         ANNEX I          17
                        ANNEX II          18




                        43

KEY DATA SHEET

       Country Jordan
   Project Area All Jordan
         Sector Horticulture
   Project Title Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer
Board Approval June 26, 2002
  Effectiveness January 15, 2003
           Date
       Original December 31, 2006
  Closing Date
        Revised December 31, 2007
  Closing Date
     MTR date June 1, 2005
 Loan Amount US$ 5 million
        Amount US$ 3.38 million
     Disbursed
Overall          To support export oriented private sector investment in the agricultural sector and
objective        contribute to a more rational natural resources management (mainly water and soil
                 resources) through a more environmentally-sustainable and efficient use of land and
                 irrigation water, and with higher economic returns

  Development to assist the government of Jordan (GOJ) to improve horticultural export marketing
       objective by pilot testing: i) a system of outgrower farming between large and small/medium
                 scale farmers in order to achieve critical mass or bulk volumes demanded by the
                 target markets and improve the income of participating farmers; and ii) the building of
                 the technological capacity of farmers, especially the outgrowers, to improve crop
                 husbandary practices and their produce quality to satisfy the requirements of target
                 markets and reduce the rejection rates of exported consignments.
 Implementing i) Jordan Enterprise Development Corporation (JEDCO); ii) Agricultural Marketing
       Agencies Department (AMD)/MAO; iii) The National Centre for Agricultural Research and
                 Extension (NCARE); and iv) Plant Protection Directorate (PPD)/MOA;
Period Covered January 2003 ­ December 2007 (which included one year project extension)
   Prepared By Dr. Mustafa A.H. Rawashdeh
 Project period Five years, date of effectiveness: January 10, 2003




                                                  44

              LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  AMD    Agricultural Marketing Department
   BDU   Business Development Unit
   HEF   Horticultural Export Fund
HEPTTP   Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology Transfer Project,
 JEDCO   Jordan Enterprise Development Corporation
  MOA    Ministry of Agriculture
M&E unit Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
NCARE    National Centre for Agricultural Research and Extension
   PCU   Project Coordination Unit
   PPD   Plant Protection Directorate
   TTS   Technology Transfer Specialists




                                       45

1. INTRODUCTION

The HEPTT project's development objective was to improve the horticultural export marketing by pilot
testing a system of outgrower farming and building the technological capacity of farmers. The project
was logically structured into three components: i) Export promotion component, ii) Strengthening
technology support services and systems component, and iii) Quality testing and certification of export
produce component. According to information extracted from JEDCO, the project did lead to increased
export to Europe, the Gulf states, and other countries as well. Production level under the project began
with 2,560 Mt in 2004 and increased to 19,960 Mt in 2007 of which around 54% represents incremental
export and approximately 55% is displacement of existing export. European countries imported 65% of
total export volume and neighboring countries and the Gulf states the remaining 35%. Eastern Europe
and Russia accounted for 71% of the incremental market and Western Europe accounted for 17%.

The project has achieved its overall objective of improving horticultural marketing. The factors
constraining export marketing and identified during project preparation ­ absence of critical mass,
timely marketing information and technical know-how, and knowledge of the changing standards ­
have been addressed through a set of measures and instruments aimed at different segments of the
supply chain from "farm to fork" . The availability and adoption of some appropriate technologies has
been effective in initiating a change in the mind-set of farmers and exporters as well as in the Jordanian
agricultural research and extension system to make it more efficient and responsive to the country's
horticulture technological needs. It has facilitated a shift from the model of " supply creates its own
demand" to " let's produce what the market needs". Component 1, Export promotion, through various
assistance schemes (advisory services. In country support and market information services has to an
extent successfully piloted a scheme of vertical integration (importer-exporter-farmer) and horizontal
expansion (several farmers producing same product characteristics).         Despite some management
/logistical difficulties. Component 2, Strengthening Technology Support Services and Systems,
successfully piloted institutional reforms for farmer-centred market ­ driven extension systems and it is
now ready for replication on a wider scale throughout the country. There are clear signs of an
appreciable move to sustainable production systems research and extension (reduction of chemical used
and soil/land testing), diversification to higher value crops away from the traditional crops, and to on-
and off-farm value addition.. Component 3, the Quality Testing and certification of export produce
component has made it possible to bring the pesticide residue laboratory to a quality standard to meet
international accreditation. Under the project , the laboratory 's capability has finally been upgraded,
through training, technical assistance and equipment support. Support has also been provided to
upgrade the heavy metals testing laboratory to improve its turnaround time.

In spite of inappropriate conditions under which the project M&E unit has worked, it has done the best
it can to collected the information needed for assessing the project inputs, outputs, and outcomes . In
addition, the M&E unit has provided the world Bank mission with all date needed for the Bank
assessment of the project. The data provision to the bank followed via e-mail, through discussions, and



                                                  46

in hard copy format. The project M&E unit, however, was unable to function as independently as it
should. It has faced problems of different kinds due to the deficiencies in the way the PCU was
managed, which prevented the M&E unit to make better performance.

Although the performance of the implementing agencies can be described as barely satisfactory, the
implementation progress can be described as moderately satisfactory. The status of the project
performance indicators is given under the heading: Project output. Following a request from the
Government (the borrower), the loan closing date was extended by 12 months to December 31, 2007.
The loan was not fully disbursed in December 2007. US$ 3.38 million have been disbursed from the
loan component, including the Special Accounts (SA) balance of US$ 0.27 million. This represents
claims made against expenditure incurred up to November 9, 2007 for components 1,2 and 3.
Approximately .056 million was expected to be disbursed from the IBRD loan of US$ 5 million at
project closure on December 31, 2007. The remaining unutilized amount of project funds is
approximately US$ 1.35 million are from the loan.

The emerging trends are that contracts are being signed with big farmers/exporters who, based on
contract size, engaged other farmers (small/medium farmers) in the concluded contracts. In addition,
there is improved technological capabilities of some farmers and a better knowledge of Western and
Eastern European and Gulf markets.

2. PROJECT ASSUMPTIONS

Assumption related to Project Development Objective: Adequate government provision of
counterpart funds, and government continued commitment to supporting increased role of private sector
in horticultural exports.

Assumption related to the 1st Project Component:

It was assumed that:
   a number of trade fairs and exhibitions , training seminars, study tours , and market research would
   be carried out yearly.
   a national exporters manual would be produced and revised periodically,
   Information system in place and operational

Assumption related to the 2nd Project Component:

It was assumed that: a number of technology transfer specialists would be trained and operational. Also,
a number of small/medium scale farmers would be trained, and a number of demonstration trials
conducted.

Assumption related to the 3rd Project Component:

It was assumed that the technical capacity of the laboratories would be upgraded in preparation for
accreditation by the relevant EU directorate.




                                                   47

There was no doubt the Government's commitment was genuine throughout the project. The project had
access to all relevant information and support from political side was obvious. The specific problem area
apparent during the project period was the steps followed in procuring service and goods , which -in
fact- was a result of poor qualification of the procurement officer and communication between him
and the special tender committee This has resulted ­in several cases - in significant procurement delay
and negative impact on implementing some of the project activities. To support the project, the prime
minister cabinet has approved that tenders with cost below JD 20,000.0 don't have to go through the
special tender committee. However, this approval happened on September 10, 2006, which was
relatively late. The observed acceleration of the procurement process did not impact the timeliness of
the procurement since only few activities were covered after September , 2006.
Proper communication by the PCU with the prime minister cabinet could have accelerated this approval
and consequently expedited the procurement process.

The 1st project component consisted of two sub-components. The activities of the first sub-
component were assigned to JEDCO, while the activities of the second sub-component were
assigned to AMD. JEDCO has carried out most of the activities listed in the project appraisal
document, including: seven foreign study tours, six (6) trade fairs, five training and three awareness
workshops , one export database; three market research studies,             recruited an export promotion
specialist (intl. recruited) and one product specialist (nationally recruited), and produced and revised an
export manual. Barely adequate planning of these activities has resulted in less positive impact of the
project than expected. In addition , the component has conducted other activities that have not been
listed such as trial shipments and buyer missions, which were considered necessary tools for attracting
more potential importers. The AMD has conducted about 15% of its total planned activities due to some
factors including: the component was inadequately staffed; and failure of the project
coordinator/manager to arrange the positive interventions.


The NCARE, the implementing agency of the 2nd project component has recruited 32 TTS, trained
them , and distributed them to five major regions of the country, where they had provided some training
and technology transfer to a number of farmers. In this context, this project component has conducted
three training and awareness workshops, a foreign study tour, and developed and implemented five
competitive research projects. Some of the specific problems that have faced the project and lead to
less than intended outcome include:
· Most of the TTS were not well experienced when they joined the project; and the training to which
    they have been exposed after they joined the project couldn't improve their skill levels sufficiently,
· Weak TTS 's management program or leadership,
· The competitive research project program faced planning and organizational problems that led to
    implementing about 20% of the total planned projects before the HEF as an alternative to this
    program has been introduced. One major reason for such an achievement was partly due to failure to
    engage the NCARE's scientists in implementing the planned projects. The NCARE has managed to
    get the prime minister cabinet's approval for engaging the NCARE's scientists in the implementation
    process, but paid engagement of the NCARE's scientists in the implementation process was declared
    as violation to the Bank policy and consequently, the Bank together with the PCU have agreed to
    introduce the HEF as an alternative to the competitive research grant projects.




                                                  48

In July, 2007, the NCARE has received a new, confident, passionate, and dedicated director general.
This however was too late to make impact on the project in general and on the 2nd project component in
particular, as by this time, almost all the activities of this component have been covered and the director
general new responsibilities were tremendous.

The PPD, the implementing agency of the third project component, has struggled to get its activities
implemented on time, but this couldn't happen as planned. The PPD has implemented all its activities
before the closing date of the project except obtaining certification from internationally recognized
institution   to enable it issuing     quality compliance certification for farmers. The delay in the
implementation process of the individual activities has caused the delay in obtaining the certification
from internationally recognized institution.

3. OPPORTUNITIES FOR STRENGTHENING PROJECT IMPACTS
    AND SUSTAINABILITY

1. Separation of the pesticide formulation and pesticide residue laboratories

The pesticide formulation and pesticide residue laboratories of the Plant Protection Directory (PPD) of
the MAO used to be in the same building with close proximity, and needed to be separated to avoid the
possibility of cross ­contamination. A new building has been constructed to host the pesticide residue
laboratory, supported with new equipments, trained staff, and technical assistance to bring it to a quality
system to meet EU accreditation and build full customer confidence in the EU market. Currently, the
laboratory is preparing to meet some certification requirements of internationally recognized accredited
institution. This will enable the laboratory to issue internationally acceptable quality certificate.

2. EUREPGAP Capabilities

The project has upgraded the EUREPGAP facilities at the NCARE regional centre in Dair Alla to enable
it providing training and expertise for farmers and exporters to adopt good agricultural practices,

3. A postharvest Unit at NCARE

      The project has assisted the establishment of a postharvest unit at the NCARE which as a fetus of a
     postharvest program, aiming at capacity building and transfer of feasible and appropriate postharvest
                                                                                                technologies .


4. Absorbing the TTS in NCARE

Another general opportunity for strengthening impacts of the project work after the project ended was
the integration of the Technology Transfer Specialists (TTS) in NCARE's operation.


5. Establishment of EUREPGAP certification Unit at JISM




                                                     49

The establishment of the EUREPGAP certification unit with the HEPTTP support at the Jordan Institute
of Standards and metrology (JISM) represents a significant opportunity for strengthening the impact of
the project on meeting the export market standards.

6. Packinghouses, cold storage, and Pre-cooler Facilities

Four farmers/exporters have already established packinghouse facilities operated by trained workforce,
five farmers have built cold storage facilities, at least three providers of refrigerated transport service
entered the market during the project life, and five forced air pre-coolers have been produced for
demonstration and awareness . Currently, the pre-coolers are an integral part of the post-harvest
research division at the NCARE.

7. Horticulture Program at JEDCO

JEDCO has, during the project life, formally added a horticultural program to its framework, and it's
operative.

8. Legally Established Farmers/Exporter Groups

Four legally registered farmers/exporters group were established during the life of the project.


9. PROJECT RELEVANCE

Relevance to Investment in Export oriented Private Investment

The implemented activities of the project have resulted in:

    Investment in EUREPGAP facilities, fourteen farmers have became EUREPGAP certified during the
    project life and thirty are in the process of certification,
    Investment in packinghouse facilities, three farmers/exporters have invested in new packinghouse
    facilities and the required training capacity building,
    Investment in refrigerated transport means, and cold storage and pre-cooling facilities. Four private
    investors have taken advantages of the increasing demand for refrigerated transport , established
    refrigerated transport companies and started providing service for exporting farmers. It was a little
    bit late when the project has started giving serious attention to cold storage and pre-cooling.
    Consequently, about 15% of the project beneficiaries are considering establishing such facilities


Relevance to Rational Water and Soil Resources,

The project's conducted activities have provided training in and made farmers/exporters aware of :
    Soiless culture , thirteen farmers have adopted this technique,
    Fertigation technique, three farmers have adopted and currently apply this technique,
    Modern Irrigation systems, ten farmers have switched to modern irrigation systems that save water,
    Water catchment management, four farmers have established water catchment facilities.



                                                    50

The farmers , in general, adopted the attitude that adopting these practices would of course require
investments, which many of them can't afford, but at the same time, they think that in the medium to
long run these investments would ensure the production of good quality products, saving water,
fertilizer ( lower production cost) and higher profit. According to farmers, more concentrated training in
the use of these techniques is needed .

As the impact analysis above shows, the project has had a moderate significant relevance at all levels
and for virtually all sub-sectors of horticulture and floriculture. The question of relevance concerns
priorities and subsequent participation and sustainability. The endeavor of the project will only be
relevant if the spirit and activities of the project continue.
But sometimes, relevance only becomes obvious to the participants after awareness has been risen. The
farmers/exporters and political awareness has been ensured together with popular participation, but the
present economic situation may pose a threat.


10. TARGET GROUPS PRIORITIES

The target groups of the HEPTTP were primarily farmers and exporters and to a lesser extent the
government decision makers. The project furnished training, promotional activities (i.e., trade fairs,
foreign study tours, market demand research, ... and the like ); research grant projects, technology
transfer, and assisted the building and equipping of pesticide residue facilities.

The project impact by these activities is determined by whether the choice, level, and approach of these
activities and participants were appropriate . participants have included producers, exporters and
government employees, and the activities were determined after analysis of need and capacity. However,
most provided activities, especially, the training-related ones had not resulted in the expected impact on
the target groups due to different factors such as : i) deficiency in the implementation process of the
promotional activities; ii) significant delay in implementing the laboratory-related activities, which was
,mainly, caused by improper/inadequate management of the procurement and accounting functions at
the PCU       , ii) The TTS organization and communication skills required for good implementation of
these activities were weak,         which resulted in weaker positive impact on farmers/exporters than
expected.

With these factors in mind, it can be concluded that the overall impact of the project's work on target
beneficiaries was moderate : i) some conducted activities (i.e., trade fairs and foreign study tours) have
led to export contracts conclusion, especially, between large and already experienced local exporters
from which in some cases small and medium scale farmers have benefited; ii)                the project has
conducted training activities to farmers and exporters. However, the impact of the provided training and
technology transfer on target groups can be described as less than expected.

11. PROJECT OUTPUTS

With the objectives given, the initial planning process included selection of outputs in accordance with
the design of the pilot/project specified in the project appraisal document. . Since the project was a




                                                      51

learning and Innovation Loan ( LIL), there was no solid confidence that these choices were correct.
Status of project performance indicators is given in Tables 1 & 2 in Annex I .

The project has contributed to the export of selected crops which originated , mainly, from well
situated farmers/exporters. However, in the area of farmers/exporters capacity building, the contribution
was relatively weak.

The Horticultural Export Promotion Project Component

The horticultural export promotion project component has conducted several activities ( trade fairs,
foreign study tours, trial shipments, and buyer missions) which lead to the following output:

    A conclusion of 117 export contracts that resulted in 2,566.00 Mt of horticultural products exported
    during 2004 , increasing to an estimated 19,957 Mt by the end of 2007, yielding an annual growth
    of 94% .The corresponding value of the export was US$ 3.9 millions in 2004 and grew to US$ 24.5
    millions in 2007. Most of the exported volume was produced by farmers/exporters , especially, large
    and well developed ones who participated in the promotional activities . These farmers/exporters
    gave priorities to their products in the first place. If the contracted volume was bigger than what they
    couldn't furnish, they bought the make up amount from contracted or not contracted small/medium
    scale farmers. The value of export in 2007( US$ 24.5 millions), is based on information provided by
    JEDCO. According to JEDCO, the questioned exporters released the number of export contracts
    concluded and value of them only after it was agreed to keep the names secret. The exporters ,
    however, wouldn't specify whether the volume and value of the resulted exports was from new
    importers established through participation in the project activities only, old clients, or from new
    and old clients; neither they would specify the percentage of the participation of the small and
    medium scale farmers.
    A total of 27 contract groups were established during the life cycle of the project ,eleven groups of
    which have been established during the first four years of the project life, while the rest (16 groups)
    were established with assistance of the HEF. Of the total contract groups only four were legally
    registered. The total number of farmers participating in the 27 groups reached 256 avaraging 13 per
    group.

    Although with delay, a national export manual has been prepared , distributed, and updated ; and is
    being used by farmers/exporters as a tool providing knowledge about export procedures in various
    export markets. In addition, promotional materials           for foreign missions in Jordan and other
    countries    have been prepared and the AMD's Marketing Information System                is now partly
    operational. As a result of these and other promotional activities , the 27 farmers/exporters groups
    are , in a position to produce today in accordance with the export markets standards.

Strengthening Technology Support Systems and Services Project Component

This project component has conducted activities which lead to the following output:

    About 200 national farmers have been visited by the TTS in the five major different regions of the
    country. Between 2004 and 2006, fourteen (14) farmers have become EUREPGAP certified, thirty




                                                     52

   (30) others are in the process of becoming certified. This was a result of cooperation between the
   TTS and NCARE's scientists,
   Although with significant delay, fourteen crop protocols have been prepared           and distributed to
   farmers/exporters and other relevant bodies, with the view to improve the production and marketing
   efficiency of these bodies. Since these protocols reached later as expected to the hand of the
   farmers/exporters, it's early to tell of the extent of the impact of these protocols on the project
   beneficiaries,
   About 20% to 30% increase in yield and decrease in fertilizer use of some farms have been
   achieved as a result of advice based on water and soil tests provided by the TTS. Better results could
   have been achieved had the program of activities been better managed and the profile of the TTS
   been more adapted to the needs of the farmers. Poor management, lack of effective leadership, and
   limited skills in some subject matters were among the major reasons for failure of the TTS program
   to achieve more substantial results,
   Five pre-coolers have been produced and used for demonstration and enhancing awareness of
   farmers about the importance of pre-cooling in preserving good quality of the produce, the pre-
   coolers have been transferred to the ownership of the NCARE after the project went to an end and
   are considered a part of the project sustainability,
   A postharvest unit    has been set up, it's equipped with a group of postharvest equipments, which
   together with the five pre-coolers are being used for demonstration in training and awareness
   purposes.

Quality Testing and Export Certification of Export Produce Project Component

Outputs planned for this project component have been :

   Under the project, the pesticide formulation and pesticide residue laboratories of the Plant Protection
   Directory (PPD) of the MAO have been separated which eliminated the possibility for cross ­
   contamination.

   Training capacity, and facilities and equipment capabilities of the laboratories have been upgraded

   Meeting some certification requirements of internationally recognized accredited institution that
   would enable them to issue internationally accepted quality certificates to farmers/exporters.

Although with delay, all outputs have been completed with the exception of the activity to meet some
certification requirements of internationally recognized accredited institution to enable the labs to issue
internationally acceptable quality certificates to farmers/exporters. Due to long delay in the separation
process, it was not possible for the laboratories ­during the project life cycle - to meet this requirement.
The laboratories' staff, however, are currently working closely with the MOA toward achieving this
objective.


The Horticultural Export Fund (HEF) Component

Sixteen (16) export plans have been prepared ­ mainly by some selected members of the TTS, the
farmers themselves, and poor participation of the BDU staff. The plans were approved by the Project
Steering Committee (PSC). Nine (9) of the plans were supposed to be implemented with the assistance


                                                   53

of the BDU staff during the life of the project. However, none of these plans has been completed during
the planned time, it was mainly due to poor qualification and experience of the BDU staff, the
procurement officer at the PCU, and the limited technical expertise of the TTS to deliver the required
services sought by the HEF assisted groups. If implemented , the nine business plans would have
covered a total of 250 hectars and involved 115 farmers for an estimated export potential of 6,575.0
tons of fruits, vegetables, and cut-flowers.


The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Project Component


The PCU has mainly organized meetings such as steering committee meetings, technical implementation
meetings, project management committee meetings, tender evaluation meetings, awareness workshops,
etc. In most of these meetings the PCU objectives were to receive approval to some requests. Of
importance was those activities for which it received approval with expectation to make some positive
achievements toward the project set up objectives. The outputs of meetings that resulted in negative
impact on the project include:

    Approval to set up the HEF ,
    Approval to cancel the Competitive Research Grant Fund projects,
    Approval of modified conditions for participating in the project activities.

The achievements from implementing these three approved activities, however, turned out to be much
smaller than anticipated. In case of the HEF, the poor achievements were, mainly, due to poor
qualification of the BDU staff recruited to implement the HEF's related activities, and the fact that the
project manager (or project coordinator) thought of the HEF as a new project that justifies extension for
additional several years (as a matter of fact, the HEF was established to finance --on a cost sharing
basis-- export plans from farmer groups that meet some pre-identified criteria) . Therefore, the BDU
staff's strategy was to assist the development of as many export plans as can be - consequently, 16
export plans were developed - but they (the staff) were intentionally slow in implementing the plans'
activities to justify the extension of the project. According to some farmer groups, they were told about
cost sharing only when it came to implementing the plans' activities , then (these farmers) consequently
rejected the idea and retreated.

The HEF was introduced as a more effective alternative to the Competitive Research Grant (CRGF)
projects to help the farmers/exporters build their pre and postharvest capacity. Both the limited success
of the HEF and canceling the CRGF projects have caused a major blow for the project since significant
achievements toward the set up objectives were expected to result from HEF or the CRGF projects.

Procurement , Financial Management, and Clerical Functions

Better coordination and performance could have been achieved if the procurement, accounting, and
clerical functions were adequately conducted/managed.


12. PROJECT INPUTS


                                                    54

For each of the four project components, the input consisted of Equipment and Technical assistance
costs. Details of project inputs are given in annex II. The inputs of the HEF ­ related activities are absent
from the list, as the BDU staff were reluctant to cooperate and only some small number of activities of
some developed export plans have been implemented. It was not possible to determine the output and
impact of the implemented activities, as the BDU staff refused to cooperate.


13. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
The original Project Document listed an outline budget, which was detailed during the inception phase.
The budgets were linked to the accounting system and to actual field activities. Although with a
significant delay, an automated accounting system of the project administration and management has
been set up and enabled project staff constantly to update budgets, thus reporting to the Project Steering
Committee budget adjustments reflecting the real situation. The project has therefore received
adjustment approvals on a regular basis.

As of November 9, 2007, the actual project expenditures amounted to US$ 4.30 million , of which US$
3.38 million is financed from the Bank Loan. Commitments (i.e., value of signed contracts less amount
paid) amounted to US$ 0.90 million, of which US$ 0.56 million will be paid from the loan. The
remaining unutilized amount of project funds is approximately US$ 1.35 million are from the loan.

Payments for Committed and Delivered Activities: All project activities have been finalized and
services and goods sent to the Bank before the project closing date, Dec., 31, 2007.


14. IMPACT ASSESSMENT: EFFECTIVENESS IN ACHIEVING
    OBJECTIVES

Two major declared objectives were defined for the Horticultural Export Promotion and Technology
Transfer Project (HEPTTP):


Objective 1: to support export oriented private sector investment in the agricultural sector; and
Objective 2: to contribute to a more rational natural resources management (mainly water and soil
resources) through a more environmentally ­sustainble and efficient use of land and irrigation water,
and with higher economic returns.

The Project placed different priorities on these objectives, complementing each other to make
contribution to achieving these objectives:

The 1st project components , Horticultural export promotion. The activities of this component have
, actually, been selected, with the expectation to lead to significant private investment in postharvest
facilities and equipments (i.e,.      pre-cooling, cold storage, packinghouse operations, refrigerated
transport, training capacity building, ... etc.) and to the introduction of new legislation related to
meeting export market standards . This, however, has taken place in a slow manner, but resulted in a



                                                  55

positive    shift  in the attitudes of many farmers/exporters toward investment in export ­ related
capabilities and some outputs have been delivered (see Project outputs ).

The project has influenced the government to adopt pro-horticulture export policy changes. new
guidelines and conditions related to the quality and treatment of export of fresh produce have been
introduced. It (the government) is expected to apply these guidelines during the 2008.


The second project component , strengthening technology support services and systems . The
activities of this component concentrated on good agricultural practices and training capacity building ,
with the view to achieve better management of water and soil resources and delivered some encouraging
outputs in this regard (see project output, above).


The third project component, Quality testing and certification of export produce. The activities of
this component concentrated on establishing the physical infrastructure and the training capacity needed
to facilitate certification for export markets, especially, in Europe. So far, the planned needed physical
infrastructure and training capacity have been achieved, but the accreditation by internationally
recognized institutions to enable the established capabilities        to issue compliance certificate to
farmers/exporters with the export market Maximum residue levels (MRLs) didn't take place during the
life cycle of the project. Currently, the PPD of the Ministry of agriculture is working on this issue.
having such accredited institution in place, will influence farmers/exporters to invest in export oriented
activities to ensure the production of products that meet the export market requirements and improve
water and soil management as well.


The Project Coordination Unit (PCU): The activities of the PCU were supposed to focus on ensuring
that implementing the activities of the other three project component will lead to output that would
contribute to achieving the project development objectives. However, the staff organizational structure
of the PCU was relatively not favorable to a good achievement of the set up project objective, due
,mainly, to the inefficient way this entity was managed.


                       15. LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS


    The project would have assisted much more farmers , especially, small/medium scale ones to
    produce according the export market requirements if it (the project implementing agencies and the
    PCU) has been better coordinated and managed, and staffed with better qualified persons. The
    experience showed how important for the success of the project to have a pro-active coordination
    and management function. The HEPTTP's coordination and management function turned out to be
    not as transparent and effective as it should be.

    The project M&E unit couldn't perform its function easily as a part of the PCU organizational
    structure, an independent M&E unit would have made it possible for the project to make more and
    sinful achievements.



                                                   56

  Farmers/exporters can't produce the needed quality and market their products profitably without
  having the right means (skilled workforce, appropriate facilities, and equipments) to do so. The
  project must have given more attention to such means. Therefore, if the project would have to be
  repeated , it would be strongly recommended to focus on:

o Establishing publicly owned farms in different regions that have the right equipments and facilities
  for demonstration and making these farms available to national research institutions and universities
  to enable conducting based on demand research, development, and extension. The postharvest
  research division at NCARE is currently working on addressing this goal,
o The experience showed that the project's sponsored activities had little success in building trainer
  capacity and little number of farmers/exporters and/or their workforce have been exposed to well
  organized training in modern pre and postharvest technologies. The built trainer capacity was mainly
  in postharvest and trained number of trainer. Trainer capacity is still needed in some vital areas such
  as fertigation, soiless culture, grading, sorting ,packaging and marketing. It's important to organize
  the needed training for free or symbolic fees to encourage as many as possible farmers to engage in
  the proposed training,
o Building mobile trainer capacity in specified areas of horticulture and floriculture who would be
  ready to provide consulting services to farmers/exporters wherever they are. The TTS could have
  served this purpose have they had the right management, experience, and leadership.
o Investing in trainer capacity in the area of product inspection,
o Building trainer capacity in packinghouse operation,
o Supporting research, development and extension in identifying and producing high value products,
o Linking farmers with potential importers to encourage farmers to invest in facilities and equipments
  (good agricultural practices) that guarantee the production of high quality products at reasonable
  production costs. Importers would also tell farmers in advance which products ( volume, and
  quantities, and time) they need. This would help farmers to become demand but not supply driven,

· The experience showed how inadequate coordination and management of the project
  coordinator/manager can lead to a poor performance of the project,
· Effective planning of activities is important. Without effective planning of activities, implementing
  them would result in poor output, The experience showed that although activities have been
  implemented, the output and impact were not as expected.
· The experience showed that the ability of farmers/exporters, especially, the small and medium scale
  ones to produce the quality and quantity which the export and local markets require is limited by the
  shortage of fund, or inability to access credit . Therefore, the government could assist solving this
  problem by, for example, supporting the creation of a supervised credit program for small fruit and
  vegetable farmers, designed to improve farm productivity, lower assembly and distribution costs,
  and encourage more stable seasonal price and production patterns.
· Halfway organization of activities, undermining the importance of pre-cooling , proper refrigerated
  transport, and other postharvest handling activities , have resulted , more than once, in shipments
  reaching destination in bad conditions, thus resulting in time, money and product losses.

· Use of incentives. The project has not made enough use of incentives , for example, to influence the
  government to apply some sort of tax incentives for farmers who would invest in facilities and
  equipments that would enable them to produce according to export market requirements. Other
  incentives would be to facilitate access to credit for farmers who establish groups,



                                                  57

· The use of tools, equipments, and trials for demonstration purposes in the implementation processes
   of some project-related activities was almost absent. It's important to pay more attention to this
   aspect and support the purchase of such tools and equipments to enable successful implementation
   and impact.
· The ministry of agric. needs to speed up the efforts of accreditation for the laboratories, otherwise
   opportunity of getting considerable market segment will fade.




11.RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, BS = Barely Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)



Bank Performance:                                       Rating

· Lending                                     ( ) HS     ( x) S ( ) BS ( ) US ( ) HU
· Supervision                                  ( ) HS     ( x) S ( ) BS ( ) US ( ) HU
· Overall                                      ( ) HS    ( x) S ( ) BS ( ) US       ( ) HU


Borrower Performance

· Preparation                                   ( ) HS     ( ) S (x)BS ( ) US        ( ) HU
· Government Performance                         ( ) HS (x) S ( ) BS       ( ) US ( ) HU
· Implementing Agencies' Performance ( ) HS ( ) S (x) BS ( ) US ( ) HU
· PCU performance                                ( ) HS     ( ) S (x) BS ( ) US ( ) HU




                                                         58

ANNEX I


                                                           Table 1: Project Performance indicators

Year Exported Volume (in MT)                            Export Value (in US$)



     Contracted            None Contracte               Contracted             None Contracte
     Groups                farmers/exporters     Total  Groups                 farmers/exporters     Total
     Mt               %    Mt                %          US$                %   US$               %   US$
2003 n.a              n.a  n.a               n.a n.a    n.a                n.a n.a               n.a n.a
2004 1216             47   1350              53  2566   1566652            40  2322138           60  3888830
2005 2193             36   3983              64  6176   3056390            38  4920140           62  7976568
2006 5804             46   6943              54  12747  6270019            41  9004426           59  15274486
2007 11008            55   8949              45  19957  10429189           43  14077946          57  24507178




                                                           Table 2: Project Performance Indicators

          No. of
          Contracted    No. of non.
          Groups        Contracted
          engaged       farmers      Exporters/Producers
          in            engaged      engaged
 Year     Export        in export    inexport
  2003         6            75                3
  2004         8            57                8
  2005         6            71               13
  2006         17          168               24
  2007         37          371               48




                                                      59

ANNEX II


                                            Project Inputs


The Project Component # 1: Horticultural export promotion.

Under the project, this component has been implemented by the Jordan Enterprise Corporation (JEDCO)
and the Agricultural Marketing Department (AMD) of the Ministry Of Agriculture (MOA). The inputs
of this component included:

Material and Equipments
The 1st project component has invested in:
    Two four wheel drive vehicles (for JEDCO),
    Six Personal Computers (PC), .... (JEDCO),
    Two printers ... (JEDCO),
    One Photo copier, fax, and scanner , ... (JEDCO),
    Three office furniture., .... (JEDCO),
    One four wheel drive vehicle, ... (for AMD),
    A Marketing Information System (MIS), .... (AMD)
    One Photo copier, fax, and scanner , ... (AMD)
    One Beamer, ... (AMD),
    One Laser Color printer (AMD)
    One Laser Black and white printer (AMD),
    CD writer , ... (AMD),
    Soft-ware for scan analysis, ... (AMD)
    Soft-ware for the library .... (AMD)



                                                 60

Technical Assistance:

JEDCO:

The costs of the following Technical Assistance activities were covered:

foreign training :
   Training for seven HBD staff
   Seven Study tours for farmers/exporters, .... (seven planned)
   development of export database
National Training:
   Computer training for HBD staff.
   Five training seminars and three awareness workshops , ... (nine planned)
Trade Fairs:
   Six (6) trade fairs, .... (six planned)
   Five Buyer missions....... (added)
Short-Term consultants
   An export promotion specialist (intl. recruited),
   One product specialist (nationally recruited)
Long-term consultant (nationally recruited):
   One department director, division heads, four technical staff, one bi-lingual secretary, and one
   driver/messenger, .........( the project were financed by the project till the end of 2004,
Marketing research:
   Three Market demand research studies
Workshops and Seminars: eight training and feedback workshops and seminars
Subscriptions and Publicity:
   Subscribed International Trade Center (ITC) Marketing, News
   Produced Eleven Bustan El-Ordun news letter editions
Buyer missions: eight buyer missions,
Trial Shipments: Twenty trial shipments (alone and with the HEF)

AMD

Horticultural Supply Research

   One supply capability study
   Twenty (20) Post-harvest atlas, ...
   Fifty (50) Standardization Manuals,...



Second Project Component: Strengthening Technology Support Services and Systems

The project has invested in the following activities:

Material and Equipments

   Two four wheel drive vehicle


                                                  61

   One double cabin vehicle
   Two Personal computers One printer,
   One photo copier
   Thirty two laptops
   Two office furniture

Technical Assistance

One Local Induction training (for the TTS):
Two workshops for the Stakeholders
   Foreign Training:
   One foreign study tour
Technological Meetings:
Twelve technical panel meetings
Short-Term Consultants:
   Short-term national consultants
Long-Term Consultants:
   One Senior technology transfer specialists
   Thirty two technology transfer specialists
   One secretary
   One driver

Studies:

   Fourteen Crop protocols

Third Project Component: Quality Testing and Certification of Export Produce

The project has invested in the following activities:

Equipment and Materials:

Office Equipment:
   One Personal Computer with window 2000,
   One Laser jet printer

Laboratory Equipment:

   One Automated injector for HP6890,
   One HP-Bench top LC-MS,
   One Varian Saturn GC- MS ,
   One Fume cupboards (Operator safety),
   One Integrated Management System,
   One Heavy Metal Analyzer.
   One Lab. sample homogenizers,
   Three Analytical sample macerator,
   One Automated evaporator,



                                                  62

   One Electrical Transformer to enable connecting the equipments to power supply,
   One Chopper,
   One Cereal Mill.

Technical Assistance:

Foreign training:

   QA. Auditor training for two laboratory staff
   New equipment training for two laboratory staff
Short-Term consultant (internationally recruited) for:
   ISO 1725and methods,
   Assimilation of new equipments, GLP-system
   Terminal Assessment
   Installation of MRL Database

Civil Work
   New pesticide laboratory building,
   Rehabilitation of the formulation lab building

The fourth Project Component: The project Coordination Unit (PCU)

The project has invested in the following activities:

Equipments and Materials:

   Two four wheel drive vehicles
   One double cabin vehicle
   Seven personal computer
   One laptop
   Seven Laser jet printers
   One photo copier, fax, abd scanner
   Telephone/email

Technical Assistance

Long-Term consultants (nationally recruited):
   OneProject coordinator,
   OneAccountant,
   OneProcurement officer,
   Head of monitoring and evaluation unit
   OneAssistant head of M&E unit
   Bi-lingual secretary,
   twoDrivers and one /messenger.

Short-Term consultant:
   Four Short-Term consultants


                                                        63

Technical Reports
Auditing of the project accounts
Meetings:
  Steering committee meetings
  Technical Implementation committee meetings,
  Project Management Unit meeting,




                                           64

Annex 6: Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not Applicable




                            65

                            Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Concept Note, April 4, 2002

2. Project Appraisal Document, June 25, 2002

3. Arabyat, Maha, Ioana Veghes, and Calin Veghes: "The Romanian Market for Fresh Horticulture
   Products ­ Possible Export Opportunities for Jordan" The Gallup Organization. March 2005. 86
   pp

4. Back-to-Office Reports, Aide-Memoires and ISRs from August 2002 ­ January 2008

5. Gallup Organization. "The Romanian Market for Fresh Horticulture Products ­ Possible Export
   Opportunities for Jordan." March 2005.

6. USAID: Horticulture Competitiveness in Upper Egypt ­ A Benchmark Study. Chemonics
   International. Cairo. July, 2005.




                                             66

