                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30997

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-25815 IDA-35390)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.4 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                       FOR THE

                   SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC 2)




                                    December 22, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2004)

                                                 Currency Unit = Tajikistan Somoni (TJS)
                                                      TJS 1.00 = US$ 0.3298
                                                      US$ 1.00 = TJS 3.03

                                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                                 January 1 to December 31

                                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALCO    Agency for Bank Liquidation and Credit         MOET   Ministry of Economy and Trade
        Collection
ADB    Asian Development Bank                          MOF    Ministry of Finance
ARSR   Agricultural Recovery and Social Rehabilitation MSRD   Ministry of State Revenues and Duties
       Project
BC     Budget Commission                               NBT    National Bank of Tajikistan
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent States              NCB    National Competitive Bidding
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                   MTBF    Medium-Term Budget Framework
CGM     Consultative Group Meeting                    MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment     NGO   Nongovernmental Organization
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report         PEIR    Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                   PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development
DFID    Department for International Development,       PIP   Public Investment Program
        UK
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and           PIU    Project Implementation Unit
        Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia                        PREM   Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
ECHO   European Commission Humanitarian Office         PRGF   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
ECSPE   Poverty Reduction and Economic                 PPP    Purchasing Power Parity
        Management Unit, Europe and Central Asia
        Region
ESW     Economic and Sector Work                       PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
EU      European Union                                 PRSTF  Poverty Reduction Strategy Trust Fund
FSU    Former Soviet Union                             PSIA   Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         PWC    Price Waterhouse Coopers
GOT    Government of Tajikistan                        RRS    Rayons of Republican Subordination
IAS    International Accounting Standards              QAG    Quality Assurance Group
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and       SAC 1  First Structural Adjustment Credit
       Development
IBTA 1 First Institutional Building and Technical      SAC2   Second Structural Adjustment Credit
       Assistance Credit
IBTA 2 Second Institutional Building and Technical     SAC3   Third Structural Adjustment Credit
       Assistance Credit
ICB    International Competitive Bidding               SDR    Special Drawing Rights
ICR    Implementation Completion Report                SOE    State-Owned Enterprise
IDA    International Development Association           SCF    State and Collective Farms
IDF    Institutional Development Fund                  SFCC   State Financial Control Committee
IFC    International Finance Corporation               TA     Technical Assistance
IMF     International Monetary Fund                    TADAZ  Tajik Aluminum Plant
I-PRSP Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper        TF     Trust Fund
GBAO   Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast              UNDP   United Nations Development Program
LOI    Letter of Intent                                USAID  United States Agency for International
                                                              Development
MDG    Millennium Development Goal                     UTO    United Tajik Opposition
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture                        WTO    World Trade Organization

                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director    Dennis de Tray, ECCU8
                Sector Director   Cheryl Gray, ECSPE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jakob von Weizsacker, ECSPE

                                        TAJIKISTAN
                                             SAC 2


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P046047                                                  Project Name: SAC 2
Team Leader: Jakob von Weizsacker                                    TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SAC 2                                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-25815; IDA-35390
   Country/Department: TAJIKISTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (45%); Banking (23%); General
                            information and communications sector (12%); General industry and
                            trade sector (10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (S); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                            (S); Other financial and private sector development (S); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/02/2000                                     Effective:                           07/26/2001
     Appraisal: 05/07/2001                                         MTR:                             03/31/2004
      Approval: 06/26/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Tajikistan/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Jakob von Weizsacker                           Cevdet Denizer
ICR Primary Author:             Utkirdjan Umarov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background. Following the break-up of the FSU Tajikistan faced severe economic and political
shocks. Output declined by 57 percent of GDP during 1992-1996 and the country experienced a
civil war. Only when the peace accord with the UTO was reached in 1997 could the GOT focus
on the consolidation of political power and, subsequently, the economic reform agenda. At the
time SAC2 was conceived, the country began to embarked on a reform program with support of
the international community to rehabilitate the country, stabilize the economy, and begin reforms
to transform the economy into a market oriented one.

Poverty became the central development issue in Tajikistan as it emerged from civil conflict as
one of the poorest country in the world. Per capita GNI World Bank atlas method. in 2000 accounted
for US$ 170 against US$820 in 1991. The first World Bank Poverty Assessment found that 83
percent of the population was living below poverty line in 1999. There were and continued to be a
massive outflow of migrant labor (mostly to Russia) in search of better employment. The GOT
developed an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which, among others,
attempted to estimate external funding requirements to pursue the planned reform program. By
the time SAC2 was under preparation at the end of 2000, the country stood at 51 percent of its
1991 output level, a only a modest increase compared to 1997, the official end of civil war
hostilities. Political stability and governance issues remained major bottlenecks for economic
growth.

3.1.2. SAC2 was the third adjustment program of the World Bank in Tajikistan. Earlier, the Bank
provided the Agricultural Recovery and Social Rehabilitation Credit (approved by the Board on
September 12, 1996) in the amount of US$50 million and the First Structural Adjustment Credit
(approved by the Board on July 30, 1998) in the amount of US$ 56.7 million, including a
supplement of US$6.7 million (approved by the Board on May 17, 1999 and disbursed in
November 2000) following the Russian financial crisis.

3.1.3. Objective. The purpose of SAC2 was to support the implementation of the first stages of
the Tajikistan's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) endorsed by the Board on
October 31, 2001. SAC2 would provide foreign exchange that would help maintain essential
imports, boost international reserves, and provide non-inflationary financing for the budget. One
overarching objective of the credit was to support policy reforms that would improve governance
in general to transformation into a peace time and market oriented economy. Specific objectives
were:    (i) to increase transparency and accountability of the public sector; (ii) to improve
effectiveness and efficiency of public resource use; (iii) to facilitate private sector growth and to
broaden economic opportunities; and (iv) to reduce fiscal and quasi-fiscal drain created not least
by soft budget constraints in the state sector. Correspondingly, the program focused on four
areas: (a) public sector management; (b) the budget process; (c) private and financial sectors
development and privatization; and (d) utilities and public enterprise reform.

Reforms under SAC2 focused on improvements in public sector management, service delivery,
budget and expenditure planning, as well as on the implementation of the Government's reform
program in private sector development through policy actions in the financial sector, privatization



                                                 - 2 -

and public enterprise reforms, and reforms in infrastructure sectors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No Revisions

3.3 Original Components:
SAC2 had six major structural policy components: (i) public sector management and service
delivery; (ii) budget planning and execution; (iii) financial sector reforms; (iv) private sector
development; (v) privatization, enterprise reforms and farm privatization; and (vi) infrastructure
reforms. The major policy reforms under each components were as follows:


Public Sector Management and Service Delivery

·      Eliminate directed credits and quasi-fiscal operations of the NBT
2.     Establish a supreme budget authority
·      Reorganize key ministries
·      Reform the customs administration

Budget Planning and Execution

·      Establish a national Treasury
·      Adopt a new Law on Public Finances introducing modern budgetary procedures,
improving fiscal management, and developing a MTBF
·      Integrate the Public Investment Program (PIP) into the budget process
·      Switch from norm-based costing to activity/population based expenditure allocation in the
education and health sectors

Financial Sector Reforms

·      Accelerate financial sector restructuring and close weak banks
·      Establish new regulatory framework for the establishment of non-bank intermediaries
·      Reduce discretionary restrictions on account holder by limiting their access to their own
bank accounts conditional on a court authorization only

Private Sector Development

·      Take measures to improve financial transparency and establish hard budget constraints
·      Establish an Agency to support the private sector and improve the legal framework for
private sector activity
·      Reduce taxes on the agricultural sector

Privatization, Enterprise Reforms and Farm Privatization

·      Accelerate privatization of medium and large enterprises



                                               - 3 -

·       Develop a plan to engage the private sector in Tajikistan's strategic enterprises and adopt
a strategy to privatize those enterprises in medium-term
·       Take actions towards the improvement of corporate governance in public enterprises
·       Upgrade the status of the Land Reform Committee to the equivalent of a ministry,
accelerate farm privatization, and enforce procedures that ensure transparency and equitable
privatization of farm land

Infrastructure Reforms

·       Separate regulatory and commercial functions of Tajiktelecom
·       Develop a modern telecommunication law that would allow the emergence of a
multi-operator industry structure and develop of a privatization plan for Tajiktelecom
·       Take steps toward splitting of Tajik Air Company's organizational structure into three
different and separate business units in order to improve efficiency

3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained as originally designed, although additional implementation delays for
certain components caused extension of the closing date by 18 months. These delays reflect the
weak implementation capacity of Tajikistan as it emerged from civil conflict. Tranche amounts
and release dates are found in Table 1. The credit was not co-financed by bilaterals nor other
development institutions (multilaterals), except for a Japanese PHRD grant in amount of US$ 475
thousand to fund SAC2 preparation. The majority of this grant was cancelled due to changes in
the project objectives during preparation.
Table 1. SAC2 disbursements
      Tranche                         Date of release                Amount disbursed
                                                                       in US$ million
                                                                      (amount in SDR
                                                                           million)

First Tranche                         July 26, 2001                      24.8 (19.7)
Second Tranche                        June 16, 2004                      28.7 (19.7)
TOTAL                                                                    53.5 (39.4)
Source: World Bank Integrated Controller's Systems


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the operation was rated satisfactory by Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
and this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) concurs. Following the sharp decline in GDP
during the first five years of independence, Tajikistan remained the poorest country in CIS. The
country's economy was only beginning to rebound. Basic reforms were badly needed to enhance
governance and public administration in order to improve fiscal management for efficient use of
scarce public resources as well to reduce impediments to private sector development and the
establishment of competitive business environment. Like its predecessor, SAC2 continued the
focus on building processes for improved public and fiscal management, strengthening institutions
and improve business environment for private sector development. But within SAC2, there was an



                                                 - 4 -

increased focus on difficult areas such as public administration, privatization of medium and large
enterprises, and farm restructuring.

The objectives defined under SAC2 are consistent with the I-PRSP, which embraced improved
social protection, good governance access to public services, public resource management, and
private sector development in particular. The           SAC2 was also consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 1999-2001, dated April 14, 1998 which was designed to: (a)
achieve sustainable and employment intensive growth; (b) re-establish the framework of
governance; (c) repair important infrastructure; (d) target assistance to the war affected; and (e)
revitalize the economy. It was the second CAS for Tajikistan and included SAC2 and IBTA2 as
projects. The idea was to reinforce SAC2 with its ambitious reform agenda through a parallel
technical assistance credit, the Second Institutional Building and Technical Assistance (IBTA2)
project In amount of US$ 6.7 million, approved by the Board on June 17, 1999. , scheduled to close in April
2005. During the design process, SAC2 also hade links to other critical sectors such as human
development and agriculture. Investment operations in education (LIL Education), health
(Primary Health Care), and agriculture (Farm Privatization Support) underpinned the policy
dialogue led under SAC2.           Risks and mitigating measures were adequately taken into
consideration. It was imperative to take into account potential risks associated with the
implementation of SAC2. The credit documentation appropriately recognized Tajikistan's very
difficult political environment, and the possible resistance to reforms by major vested interests,
especially in area of public administration and budget management as well as privatization.
Indeed, major risks to the operation were accurately assessed and highlighted in the preparation of
the project including political situation, government's implementation capacity, external debt
burden and international reserves position.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Program's performance, in terms of achievement of objectives and outcomes envisaged at
appraisal, was on the whole, satisfactory as outlined in the matrix of overall reform actions under
the Credit, and as indicated by the supplementary measures agreed during the supervision
dialogue. This satisfactory rating has to be seen in the specific context of the challenging post
conflict environment of Tajikistan where, perhaps not always fully visible for outside experts, the
Government was struggling with the ghosts of the past while simultaneously embarking on an
economic and administrative reform agenda that is daunting in its own right. Tajikistan's daunting
reform agenda will require a sustained reform effort over many more years. But the overall
economic progress since 2000 has been impressive, with aggregate GDP growth of 50 percent.
And the poverty reduction record is also encouraging, with a decline in the poverty rate of 18
percentage points from 1999 where 82 percent of the population was poor to a poverty rate of 64
percentage points in 2003.

It is also clear that significant progress has been made with the specific reform agenda set out
under SAC2, as argued in the disbursement memorandum for the release of the second tranche of
SAC2 by IDA (see Annex 8). Specifically, the actions taken in the areas of public sector
management, the budget process, privatization and public sector development, and utility and
public enterprise reform, have prepared the ground for next generation of reforms



                                                    - 5 -

At the same time, one needs to acknowledge that not every reform step taken has yet been
implementation to the extent desirable and needed for those reform to develop the intended
impact. While this is not surprising the in the context of Tajikistan, the need to improve
implementation of at the administrative level will continue to be a major concern. Simultaneously,
the push for "reforms on paper" of the legislation and regulations so that whatever written rules
there are actually deserve to be implemented will need to continue. In view of the continued major
challenge of closing the two gap between actual and desired rules on paper, and the actual and
desired implementation of the existing rules, the institutional development impact of SAC2 is only
rated modest despite the overall satisfactory completion of the operation.

Finally, it is clear that neither the reforms on paper nor the proper implementation of these
reforms will come about without internal resistance of those who stand to loose as a result of the
reforms. In certain areas, the reform agenda adopted under SAC2 was so challenging for the
Government, that 3 six month extensions proved necessary. In other areas, the conditions were
fulfilled on paper but their implementation stalled. While in some instances there probably were
genuine issues of Government ownership when the full implications of the agreed reforms became
more immediately apparent, in other areas the politically fragile post-conflict situation of
Tajikistan may simply not allowed more rapid decision making despite reform resolve of our core
counterparts.

The outputs achieved as a result of implementing the various components and subcomponents of
SAC2 are listed in greater detail in Annex 1 (SAC2 Logframe Matrix).

Macroeconomic performance during SAC2

SAC2 program components did not include macroeconomic performance benchmarks, but
improved macro-economic performance was a SAC2 objective supported through the provision
of foreign exchange to maintain imports, to improve the international reserve position, and to
enable non-inflationary budget financing. Table 2 summarizes the macro setting and suggests
significant progress in growth performance. The indicators reflect improving international reserves
position and external balance, while the overall fiscal deficit (inclusive of the externally funded
PIP) remained under control. Although the IMF's PRGF program takes the lead in
macro-economic matters, SAC2 certainly made a contribution towards the good macro-economic
performance 2001 to 2003.

Table 2. Macroeconomic Indicators

                  Indicator                   2001        2002      2003        2004
                                                                             (estimate)

Real GDP growth, percent                      10.2         9.1       10.2       10.

                                                                                  0

CPI (end of period ), percent                 12.5        14.5       13.7       7.0




                                                - 6 -

Government fiscal balance*, % of GDP            -2.2        -2.4        -1.8        -3.4

Current account balance, % of GDP               -7.1        -2.7        -1.3        -2.0

Gross International reserves, US$ mln           96          96.2       135.4        189.1

      In months of imports                      1.9         1.8         1.9          2.3

* Including externally funded PIP
Source: IMF

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Public Sector Management and Service Delivery:

Relatively substantial improvements were achieved in the area of public sector management within
the framework of SAC2. Authorities have taken a number of actions which would enable to push
public administration reform agenda further. The law "On the National Bank of Tajikistan" has
been amended with a provision prohibiting the issuance of directed credits. In order to better
control inspections of private sector entities by state bodies, a Black Book mechanism was
introduced that helps monitor the nature and frequency of inspections, although a recent business
survey indicates that SMEs continue to be hassled by officials through overly frequent inspections.
The laws "On State Financial Control" and "On Public Finance" have come into force in
December 2002, thus creating the regulatory basis for the activities of the State Financial Control
Committee, the Supreme Audit Institution in Tajikistan. With some support through the IBTA 2
Project, functional reviews of Government ministries were conducted and the Ministries of
Health, Education, Agriculture, and Telecommunications were either partially or fully
restructured. The Ministry of State Revenues and Duties was established in January 2002 and
started modernizing the Customs and the Tax Codes, which have been redrafted with technical
assistance from the Asian Development Bank and USAID. The new customs and taxes codes
were adopted in November 2004. Also, an internal audit department has been set up within that
Ministry in order to increase accountability and to fight corruption.

4.2.2. Budget Planning and Execution:

There have been noticeable improvements of the budget process under SAC2. Individual bank
accounts of Ministries have been closed by early 2002 and all transactions are now channeled
through a single consolidated account at the Treasury. The law "On State Finances" enacted in
December 2002 is a well drafted and modern law on budget processes. However, the full
implementation of this law proved slow due to the limited capacity of the Ministry of Finance and
line ministries, and the fragmented nature of the budget preparation process. The Government
developed its first medium-term budget framework (MTBF) for 2002-2004, which links policy,
planning and budgeting decisions over the planning and resource management cycle. While this is
an important first step, a full and effective integration of the MTBF into the budget process has
yet to be achieved. A Budget Commission was set up, but met only twice and was later dissolved
since its role had not been clearly defined. On June 30, 2004, GOT issued new decree (No. 294)
on (re-) establishment of high-level Budget Commission (BC) chaired by the Prime Minister BC
management consists of the Prime Minister (Chairman), Minister of Finance (Deputy Chairman) and Economic



                                                  - 7 -

Reform and Foreign Investment Department of President Administration (Secretary). and consisting of twelve
ministries (including line ministries). Unfortunately, the mandate of the Budget Commission
remains weak. The Public Investment Program (PIP) is now officially part of the budget process,
and counterpart funding is listed as a distinct expenditure item within the State Budget. However,
the process linking MTBF, PIP and the State Budget will require significant further
improvements.

4.2.3. Financial Sector Reforms

The main reform objective in the area focused on improvements of banking legal and institutional
framework to improve banking and other financial services. While the Agency for Bank
Liquidation and Credit Collection (ALCO) was operational, the National Bank of Tajikistan
(NBT) has closed down 5 commercial banks not complying with the minimum capital
requirements. The assets of these banks were transferred to ALCO. All banks are now required to
issue annual audit reports on a regular basis within 120 days following closure of a fiscal year.
Four large banks issued / published their audit reports. In order to allow full tax deductibility of
loan loss provisions for non-standard loans, to change the basis of the property tax base for banks
from net assets to fixed assets (land and buildings), and to preclude tax authorities from freezing
accounts without obtaining a prior court order, the Tax Code was amended accordingly during
2001-2002 (see appropriate section of Annex 1 for details). The law "On Collateral" has been
amended, replacing the previous 20 percent fee for transferring the ownership of the collateral
upon borrower's default by a simplified schedule based on minimum wages and averaging no
more than 3 percent of the value of the claim. The fee was unified for all types of collateral.

4.2.4. Private Sector Development:

The key public utilities, TajikGas State ­owned Tajik Gas Supply Company, Tajiktelecom, and Barki
Tajik State-owned electricity generation and supply company. In 2003 it was integrated into the Ministry of
Energy as a department. have significantly improved collection rates and a large majority of clients
are current within 90 days sales equivalent on their payments under threat of disconnection. In
late 2001, the Government adopted a resolution requiring all budget entities to adequately plan
their utility expenditures and not to accumulate utility arrears. After initial delays, the most
significant arrears problem, the electricity arrears of the aluminium smelter TADAZ, the largest
industrial enterprise in Tajikistan consuming one third of the country's domestic electricity output,
has now been credibly addressed and a pattern of timely payment of electricity bills has been
established. In 2002, the Prime Minister approved a time-bound action plan for TADAZ,
incorporating measures for financial and operational restructuring, re-capitalization, and technical
rehabilitation. In order to implement this action plan, the UK's Department for International
Development has recently agreed to fund outside financial and technical advisors who are
expected to take up their work over the next few months. An international independent audit of
TADAZ's 2002 financial statements has been completed and was found to comply with
international audit standards (IAS) after an earlier version of the audit had been rejected. The IAS
audit of Barki Tojik is scheduled for September 2004 and will be financed by the Asian
Development Bank. An audit of TajikGas is also hoped to be carried out later this year. To reduce
the tax burden in the agricultural sector, the Tax Code was amended to pilot a single farm tax in



                                                   - 8 -

four districts in August 2002. Manuals on reorganization and privatization of collective and state
farms have been published in the mass media and 556 out of 700 state and collective farms have
been restructured. However, it is worth pointing out that the extent to which the restructuring of
the collective farms has empowered farm workers to improved their incomes varies greatly.
Improving the method of farm restructuring and privatization remains a critical challenge for
Tajikistan in order to reduce poverty in a country where more than half of all domestic
employment is in agriculture.

4.2.5. Privatization and Enterprise Reforms and Farm Privatization:

Progress both on farm privatization and enterprise privatization has been made during the SAC2
period. To facilitate farm privatization, the Government adopted a resolution in late 2001
reducing the fee for issuance of land use right certificates to US$ 6. There have been some reports
that local officials add informal payment requests to this official fee, a practice that may not
always be easy to control but that needs to be prosecuted vigorously. In order to improve the
land-use rights procedure, the budget for the issuing agency has been raised significantly and new
technical equipment has been acquired. To date, more than 21,000 land use certificates have been
issued to individual farmers and Dehkan farms Local appellation of peasant farm..


The improvement in court access benefits businesses more widely as the court fee has been
lowered to 2 percent of the claim value by Resolution of the Government in early 2002. Over 250
medium and large enterprises have been privatized while SAC2 was active. In November 2003,
the Government adopted a comprehensive and time bound Strategic Plan for the Privatization of
Medium and Large Enterprises and the Restructuring of Natural Monopolies and the Largest
Enterprises for 2004­2007, covering almost 500 remaining state owned companies. New
regulations on the auction and bidding process to implement this plan have been approved by the
Government in early 2004. Improved bankruptcy and liquidation procedures are being developed
that are also required for the implementation of the new privatization strategy. A continued timely
and solid implementation of the privatization plan will be critical.

4.2.6. Infrastructure Reforms:

The Law "On Telecommunication" was adopted by the Parliament on April 10, 2002 and enacted
on May 10, 2002. A resolution on the establishment of telecom regulation has been prepared by
the Ministry of Communications and was approved by the Government in December 2003.
Telecommunication sector policy and strategy has been developed. EBRD assistance to: (a)
develop a legal framework for separating the regulatory and commercial functions of Tajik Air
and Tajik Rail; and (b) develop accounting methodology for separating the revenues and costs of
the three divisions of Tajik Air (air company, airports, and flight control services) underway.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable



                                                - 9 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The main impact of SAC2 on institutional development was achieved through the overhaul of the
legal and operational framework required for public administration and service delivery
improvement, financial and private sector development, business activity transparency for SOEs,
privatization and land reform. Although significant reform steps both on paper and in practice
have been achieved under SAC2, capacity remains weak and further implementation progress is
required in all reform areas that were covered under SAC2.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

By the end-2002, the original closing date, 4 conditionalities out of 32 per original design, were
still outstanding. They were: TADAZ audit and financial disclosure; privatization strategy
(case-by-case) and TADAZ energy arrears. Activity based costing in health and education were
later pursued under IBTA2 consultancy. Subsequent implementation delays were due to
incomplete privatization strategy for medium-size and large enterprises as well as audit and
energy arrears of TADAZ. Those delays were due to a variety of factors, including internal
discussions within the Government and the sheer size of TADAZ arrears and the wide reaching
implications of comprehensive privatization of medium and large enterprises.

The real outcome of the project varied by component. There was significant technical interest in
the public administration and budget management components. However, once the full
implications of the proposed reforms became clear, there was considerable resistance by vested
interests, at times leading to lack of full ownership for implementation. . From a project
perspective, this ended up having more serious repercussions on the progress of IBTA2 than on
the progress of SAC2.

Despite delays, the progress made in the infrastructure sectors, privatization, and energy arrears
has been substantial. A comprehensive privatization strategy for medium and large enterprises
has been adopted, current electricity arrears of TADAZ, consumer of one third of domestic
electricity output, were settled, and the government agreed on a time bound plan within which to
restructure TADAZ. While the Government by now is significantly behind schedule on the
restructuring of TADAZ, it continues to pursue it not least because the full payment of its
electricity bill make it increasingly clear that TADAZ will require outside investment to survive.
External financial and technical advisors for TADAZ are to be hired To be funded by DFID. shortly to
help with restructuring and the search for outside investors.

5.1. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The most important factor to an important extent outside the control of the Government is
the resistance of different groups and vested interests against reforms that aim at increasing
transparency and establishing a competitive business environment. This has directly or indirectly
affected the demand for reforms from certain implementing agencies. Although the civil war
officially ended in 1997, the country remained under the influence of the interests of special



                                                     - 10 -

groups / individuals who put their personal or extended family interests before those of the
country. As a result, the country's anti-corruption profile remains poor. Transparency
International's 2003 report ranked Tajikistan, in terms of the degree to which corruption is
perceived to exist among public officials and politicians, as one of the most corrupt countries of
the world
5.2.2. The weak capacity of the civil service significantly slows down the implementation of
reforms and also reduces the quality of implementation. Often, the civil service lacks the necessary
skills required for modern fiscal management and public administration. While the capacity of the
civil service is outside the control of the Government in the short run, it can be influenced
decisively by the Government in the medium and long run, for example through better pay, better
training and improved personnel management as well as attracting better educated human
resources.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. The vast majority of measures specified in the program were under government's control.
As the Government commands a stable parliamentary majority, even the adoption of new
legislation by the Parliament did not pose any serious difficulties.

5.2.3. SAC2 helped GOT to take significant reform steps mostly in improvement of legal
framework. However, implementation is often lagging behind. In particular, authorities
demonstrated weakness in enforcing legal framework to improve governance and business
environment in the country. For example, to reduce interventions in private business GOT issued
a decree on introduction of inspection records books. However, IFC's 2003 business environment
study The study covered 2000 small and medium size private businesses as well as individual entrepreneurs.
reveals that so far only 40 percent of business have an inspection record book. While those books
have no doubt helped the businesses who now have them, the number of inspections remains
excessive and continues to constitute a major burden on businesses.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Some line ministries felt uneasy about relinquishing control of their assets and resisted the overall
drive for privatization of state owned enterprises. This is one of the main reasons why the
adoption of the privatization strategy for medium and large SOEs was delayed At earlier stage of
development of privatization strategy for large SOEs GOT proposed a plan with post-privatization conditionalities
to be observed by new owners. Certainly, this would undermine commercial viability of those projects; later GOT
asked Bank to provide guidance in development of the strategy. . In the end, GOT took general
responsibility for the implementation of the program which reduced the risk of possible
inter-agency frictions.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The original credit amount was SDR 39.4 mln (US$ 50 mln equivalent). At the end of the
project on June 30, 2004, the project was fully disbursed at SDR 39.4 mln (US$ 53.5 mln)
equivalent) in two tranches: the first tranche amounted SDR 19.7 mln (US$ 24.8 mln equivalent)
was disbursed at the declaration of effectiveness in 2001, and the second tranche of SDR 19.7 mln



                                                     - 11 -

(US$ 28.7 mln equivalent) was disbursed on June 17, 2004.

5.4.2. The credit term is on standard IDA terms, with a maturity 40 years with a 10-year grace
period. The service charge on the credit was at the standard IDA rate of 0.75 percent. The credit
was financed entirely by IDA funds, no co-financing was provided. A Japanese PHRD grant in
amount of US$ 475 thousand was obtained to support preparation, but the majority of this grant
was later cancelled due to changes in the project components. The Swiss Government was to
co-finance SAC2 but later cancelled due to slow progress.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. Sustainability is rated as likely, because of continued, albeit fluctuating, Government
commitment to reform, and the ongoing preparation of the next budget support operation, the
planned Policy Based Credit (PBC). The main structural objectives of SAC2 such as privatization,
infrastructure sector reforms, and improved budget management, were achieved and are not likely
to be undone. Therefore, the major structural achievements of SAC2 are likely to be sustained.

6.1.2. Ongoing donor efforts to better coordinate activities in the country would significantly
ensure the sustainability of the program. Following the Consultative Group Meeting (CGM) in
May 2003, donor community pledged US$ 900 mln to support reforms in Tajikistan provided that
sound structural reforms continue. Government-Donor follow-up meeting in February 2004 as
well as CG follow-up meeting in Dushanbe in November 2004 signal better mutual understanding
between parties in favor of continued structural reforms. In addition to that, the Government of
Tajikistan intends to develop a medium-term public administration strategy early 2005 involving
key donors.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. The project was built on the achievements of previous two adjustment operations. As
Tajikistan continues on its path towards a market-oriented system, further policy based lending in
support of the satisfactory Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) developed by the
Government will be recommended. The Bank has recently completed or is                    currently
implementing a number of ESWs, including a Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
(PEIR), a Poverty Assessment Update, a Trade Diagnosis Study, an Investment Climate
Assessment (ICA), a Health Sector Note, a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis on cotton sector
reform (PSIA), and a Energy Sector Utility Reform Review. They would serve as a ground for
future budget support operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank lending program was rated satisfactory. The preparation of SAC2 was an evolutionary
process. Since it was preceded by a similar credit, the preparation of the program benefited from



                                                  - 12 -

lessons learned SAC1 at design and implementation stages. As noted, loan identification and
design was compatible with the CAS. SAC2 directly linked its desired outcomes to the previous
operations, consistent with the government's development strategy (I-PRSP). To formulate key
policy issues the Bank closely collaborated with other development agencies, particularly with
IMF. Credit appraisal correctly assessed the government's commitment and capacity; recognized
possible risks associated with program implementation; and appropriately selected adjustment
operation as the ideal lending mechanism under those circumstances.

The concept meeting effectively tightened the loan focus on certain critical areas prior to board
submission, particularly in terms of strengthening credit's focus on public administration, fiscal
management, transparency and accountability and structural reforms in certain areas such as
infrastructure and private sector development. Finally the credit met the five-month standard for
time elapsed between appraisal and board presentation.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervisory performance is rated satisfactory. SAC2 implementation was monitored through
eleven supervision missions conducted mostly in conjunction with other PREM-managed project
missions. There was strong team continuity on this operation. Task management of the program
changed only once when the previous task manager left the unit (ECSPE) following new
assignment as a Country Manager for Tajikistan a position from which the original manager
remained closely involved. The full involvement of the Country Manager and newly hired PREM
staff based in Dushanbe provided for a better understanding of the environment in which program
was being implemented. The Bank demonstrated insight, country knowledge, and perseverance in
pursuing an opportunity to support reform. As a result, the Bank helped establish a serious and
comprehensive program in a very challenging environment.

The reduction in energy arrears, the adoption and implementation of a privatization strategy for
medium and large enterprises, the satisfactory completion of the IAS audit of TADAZ, and some
items of fiscal management (MTBF, in particular) were difficult components that delayed the
disbursement of the second tranche by 18 months. Despite these delays, SAC2 supported a
significant and serious program of reform and Bank performance was satisfactory.

SAC2 was a difficult operation because of many forces opposing / competing with reform
program (see Section 5). The Bank had to be persistent in adhering to second tranche conditions
in order to sustain the progress. Despite a continual reform process, there were significant delays.
The Bank showed some degree of flexibility in accommodating client requests and demonstrated
understanding of client's capacity and constraints which ultimately helped to complete the
operation successfully.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance in the implementation of SAC2 was rated satisfactory. The
overall performance was evaluated from standpoint of perceptions of recipients or beneficiaries of
the IDA-financed program regarding the various components of the program. On the top of that,
an objective evaluation shows that the outcomes and results anticipated at appraisal have



                                               - 13 -

generally been achieved.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The government and implementing agencies had a high degree of ownership at project design
stage. They benefited from the experience of previously financed operations including SAC1,
ARSR and, most importantly, IBTA2.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance was mixed, but with satisfactory results outweighing
less satisfactory results. Because GOT was often late in meeting targets, implementation progress
was rated unsatisfactory by three supervision missions. However, SAC2 was rated satisfactory by
most supervision missions for project development objectives. Delays in second tranche release
were due to a variety of factors the most important of which were: energy arrears of TADAZ and
development, adoption, and partial implementation of a privatization strategy for medium and
large enterprises. As a result, project was extended three times at the borrower's request. In the
end, the additional time provided by the extensions was used successfully to advance the reform
agenda even in those difficult areas to fully comply with the second tranche conditions of SAC2.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

SAC2 was a multi-task operation and required involvement of all relevant line ministries along
with Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Trade, National Bank of Tajikistan, State
Property Committee and line ministries. Since GOT was the main player at both appraisal and
supervision process, it played critical role in coordinating the whole project cycle. The large
number of agencies was successfully coordinated by the office of the State Economic Advisor to
the President. Performance of all implementing agencies is rated satisfactory, albeit moderately
due to the 18 months delay.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, albeit moderately. The GOT has brought
the project to a satisfactory closure in a very challenging environment with a weak civil service.
However, a sustained reform effort will be needed to provide a solid reform base for the sustained
economic development of Tajikistan.

8. Lessons Learned


Ownership at various management levels is different

While the ownership of the project resided with President Administration, it varied among
ministries and technical staff involved in the program. As effective vehicle would need to be
instituted to involve mid-level and technical level staff in the preparation and implementation of
adjustment program. SAC2 implementation also indicated variation of attitude government
officials vis-à-vis the reform program. Some officials find themselves in front of dilemma of


                                                 - 14 -

loosing power in exchange of donor support.

Weak civil service affects the implementation of the program
A weak civil service is a major bottleneck and adversely affects the implementation of the
structural reform program. Thus availability of technical assistance from donors and strong Bank
team support are critical in a country with weak technical working level capacity.

Economic decisions require more than the political will of the Government
Tajikistan offers a challenging environment where power is highly centralized but good
implementation requires more than the political will of top management. As dual focus on
assuring political ownership at the top while supporting capacity building at the working level for
the proper implementation of reform remains essential.

Adjustment program is sustainable provided that there is a willingness to carry out
"reforms of next generation"
With first generation reforms completed in Tajikistan, addressing the discrepancy between the
letter of the laws and regulations in place and the ways in which they are actually implemented is
increasingly a concern of the Government. It is now acknowledged that the consolidated power of
the Government cannot result in effective governance if the transmission mechanisms of
government power into action through the civil service remains as weak. Therefore, the
Government has expressed an interested in making public administration reform a core element of
its next policy based credit.
Tajikistan offers an environment where government's public administration policy actions still
remain arbitrary and cannot promise immediate positive outcome. It is very important to ensure
that next adjustment operation ensures follow-up actions on still-outstanding-to-implement policy
areas of previous operation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(a) Borrower / implementing agency:

Partner's comments are reflected in the following letter by the Ministry of Finance addressed to
the Government of Tajikistan and the World Bank

                MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

No. 4821 (12.2-7)
Date: 14.12.2004

To: Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Tajikistan
Mr. Zakir Vazirov

CC. Country Manager



                                                 - 15 -

World Bank
Office in Dushanbe
Mr. Cevdet Denizer


Ministry of Finance, having reviewed the Implementation Completion Report of the Second
Credit for Structural Adjustments (SAC-2), reports the following:

The Second Credit for Structural Adjustments was extended to the Government of the Republic
of Tajikistan by the World Bank for implementation of the reforms in public administration sector
and provision of services, improvement of the budget framework, reforms in the financial and
private sectors, and also for the realization of the Program of Privatization of the enterprises and
farms, and development of the infrastructure of the Republic of Tajikistan.

Within the framework of SAC2 implementation program, the reform has been successfully
undertaken in the improvement of the public administration sector and provision of services, in
particular, the National Bank of Tajikistan has abolished the system of granting direct credits and
quasi-fiscal operations; State Financial Control Committee was established at the Government of
the Republic of Tajikistan, with the aim to organize the independent audit of the budget resources.
The strategic program of public administration reformed was developed; the functions and tasks
of the key ministries, agencies and other budgetary organization were reviewed. The Asian
Development Bank credit was used for the realization of the customs reform.

The significant progress was observed in the filed of improvement of the budget system. Single
Central Treasury was created, with all accounts of the budgetary organization concentrated in it.
The Law of the Republic of Tajikistan on "Government Finance" was adopted, which regulates
the process of planning and performance of the public budget.            The Fiscal Department is
improved, with the introduction of the new Tax Code in new edition. The Midterm Budget
Planning Program was developed; the public budget has been formulated in its framework for the
third year. The Public Investments Program is fully integrated into the budgetary process. Actions
had been taken to monitor the public budget expenditures in health and education sectors to
introduce per capita financing.

The reforms have been implemented in the financial sector as well. The process of restructuring
the financial sector has been completed. Through the increase of the charter capital of the banks,
the weak banks' licenses were withdrawn.           The Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On
micro-financial organization" was adopted.         The regulatory and legislative acts are now
consistent, regarding the restriction of access to the inspection of the baking accounts, which in
future will be carried out only by the decision of the Court.

What concerns the expansion of the private sector, Ministry of Finance of the Republic of
Tajikistan conducts regular activities on promotion of the financial transparency through
periodical publication of the financial statements in mass media, and also the tight budgetary
limitation is observed, in particular, the budget deficit is kept at manageable level. What concerns
the establishment of the Antimonopoly Agency, actually all regulatory - legislative acts are



                                                - 16 -

adopted. Also the amendments were made to the Tax Code concerning the introduction of the
single flat tax in agricultural sector, which significantly simplifies the taxation procedure in this
sector.

Actually, the reform on privatization of the enterprises and farms is completed. The public
program is designed to facilitate the privatization process of the medium and large enterprises,
and actions have been taken to implement this program. The issue of the improvement of the
corporate management at the state enterprises is relevant, and at this stage the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan facilitates its efforts in this direction. The status of the Land Committee is
upgraded to the level of the Ministry; it is the State Committee at the Government.             The
transparency of the farms privatization process is ensured through publication of the statistical
bulletins, with the data, reflecting the number of privatized farms.

The reforms in infrastructure contributed to the increase of competitiveness in the field of the
provision of services in electronic communication. Along with the Company "Tajiktelecom", the
services are being rendered by a number of new providers of cell and other telecommunications
services. The Law on "Electronic communication" was adopted, supporting the private sector in
this field. The steps are undertaken on delineation of the organizational structure of Tajik Airline
Company, and also of the Tajik Railway and other enterprises, it will be implemented according to
the designed measures by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan.

Thus, the Structural Adjustment Program covered those spheres, which were mostly in the need
of reforming on the way to market relations.

It should be noted, that the Program implementation and mentioned progress were achieved with
the assistance and active support of the World Bank group, which was a big contribution to the
development of the economy of Tajikistan.

At the same time, despite the significant results, still much efforts and work are required for
further implementation of the institutional adjustments with the aim to improve the quality of
public administration in all the spheres of the government.

As a whole, based on the above mentioned, we consider the assessment of the efficiency of
implementation of the Second Credit for Structural Adjustments as being satisfactory.


Minister                 S. Najmuddinov
/Signature/



(b) Cofinanciers:

None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                  - 17 -

None

10. Additional Information




                              - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators / Log Frame Matrix Core conditionalities are in gray cells.

   Reform Areas /        Outcome/ Impact                      Planned Measures                                         Actual
     Objectives               indicator
Public Sector
Management and
Service Delivery -
Strengthen
transparency and
accountability,
deliver better public
service
Central Bank          Provision of public       Eliminate directed credit operations of the NBT While there were a few sporadic reports of
                      credit resources on a     and provide credit resources solely through     directed credit which have been subsequently
                      competition basis         credit auctions.                                repaid. They were isolated cases ­ remedial
                                                                                                actions had been taken by repaying the funds.
                                                                                                For instance, the most recent case completed 8
                                                                                                weeks after original credit. This is a part of
                                                                                                structural performance criteria under PRGF and
                                                                                                being monitored by IMF.
Budget Audit          Establish a Financial     The Parliament has approved the Law on the      Parliament has adopted the Law "On State
                      Control Office for        Financial Control Office.                       Financial Control" on 17 April 2002 (#615)
                      budget audit              .                                               which defines the criteria, rates and rules of
                                                                                                conducting inspections of enterprises' and
                                                                                                organizations' activities. This Law came into
                                                                                                force on December 2, 2002 (#62) and establishes
                                                                                                the State Financial Control Committee (SFCC)
                                                                                                is the supreme audit institution. However, the
                                                                                                SFCC reports to the President only, which can
                                                                                                give rise to conflicts of interest as the President is
                                                                                                the head of the executive. As a next step,
                                                                                                parliamentary involvement in the oversight
                                                                                                would be desirable, possibly through the
                                                                                                establishment of an additional audit institution
                                                                                                that would supervise the work of the SFCC and
                                                                                                would report to Parliament. The issue of conflict
                                                                                                of interest was addressed in Country Financial
                                                                                                Accountability Assessment (CFAA) conducted
                                                                                                by the World Bank. This issue needs to be taken
                                                                                                further, there are discussions on twinning
                                                                                                arrangement under IDF grant for SFCC
                                                                                                underway.
Reduce Number of      Introduce Black Book      Establish standards and guidelines governing    The Black Book scheme is under
Inspections           to document and           inspections.                                    implementation, President Decree was adopted
                      monitor inspection                                                        on March 28, 2001. However, IFC's 2003
                      activities of various     Review Black Book scheme and amend              business environment study The study
                      Government agencies of    regulations as necessary to minimize
                      the private sector.       unreasonable interference, satisfactory to IDA  covered 2000 small and medium size
                      Establish an agency that                                                  private businesses as well as
                      would coordinate and                                                      individual entrepreneurs. indicates that
                      monitor the activities of                                                 excessive inspections still remain a serious issue.
                      various ministries as                                                     In 2002, 95 percent of private businesses were
                      they impact private                                                       subject to 16 inspections (7 of which are tax
                      sector development.                                                       inspections, on average) during the year; 98
                                                                                                percent of businesses confirmed that they had to
                                                                                                make unofficial payments during those
                                                                                                inspections. While being inspected by 17
                                                                                                government agencies, almost 40 percent of them
                                                                                                had no inspection record book. At the same time
                                                                                                inspections overlap and there is no mechanism to
                                                                                                monitor inspections. GOT committed itself to
                                                                                                collect samples of black books for analysis.. but
                                                                                                further reforms are needed in this area.
Civil service reforms Complete Civil Service    Adopt a time bound plan and begin               The Government established Civil Service
and compensation      survey to develop         implementation of government wage reform.       Department under the President Administration
                      proposals for the         Appoint the Director of the Department of State on January 25, 2001. Another Decree of the



                                                                  - 19 -

                       government wage           Services by October 2001.                            President was issued on February 7, 2001 on the
                       reform                                                                         Statute of the Civil Service Department. Among
                                                                                                      others, the Civil Service Department is
                                                                                                      responsible to develop government policy on
                                                                                                      civil service including legal framework, human
                                                                                                      resources management, coordination of
                                                                                                      government agencies' efforts to upgrade skills of
                                                                                                      civil servants, as well as oversight of enforcing
                                                                                                      legal regulations on civil service. GOT adopted
                                                                                                      Ethics Code of civil servants on June 14, 2004. It
                                                                                                      represents conceptual framework and consists of
                                                                                                      "To Do" and "Not To Do" for civil servants.

                                                                                                      Civil service reform and compensation remains
                                                                                                      on the focus of, at least, medium-term reform
                                                                                                      agenda and further actions needed. PEIR and
                                                                                                      Bank's new adjustment operation attach high
                                                                                                      priority to civil service reform and compensation.
Functional reviews and 1. Restructure Ministry   1. Expand functional reviews to local                1. Functional reviews at the local level have been
ministry restructuring of Transport and          government level by October 2001.                    undertaken.
                       Ministry of Energy.
                                                 2. Adopt final restructuring action plans for        Some restructurings took place based on
                       2. Start developing       each of the 4 ministries satisfactory to IDA by      functional review of ministries. Tajik Air
                       restructuring action      December 2001, including the determination of        company was separated from Ministry of
                       plans of 4 ministries at  the enterprises, institutions, and agencies to be    Transport. However, Barki Tojik, state-owned
                       the central level         transferred to other non-sectoral ministries,        utility company was integrated into the Ministry
                       including health,         including the SPC, as part of the reorganization     of Energy. While further reforms needed vis-à-vis
                       education agriculture,    of health, education, agriculture, and               Tajik Air, the latter case (Barki Tojik) raises
                       and telecommunications    telecommunications ministries in line with their     concern in terms of the role of government in a
                       based on the functional   newly defined functions.                             market economy.
                       reviews prepared under    Issue a decree approving the resulting structure
                       IBTA2 and as specified    of each ministry, and authorizing the transfer of    2. Comments on the draft restructuring plans
                       in the Presidential       enterprises, institutions, and agencies, not part of were received from the four ministries and were
                       decree issued on March    the new structure, to non-sectoral ministries,       incorporated into the draft functional reviews.
                       14, 2001.                 including the SPC, by May 2002.                      Full or partial restructuring in the relevant
                                                                                                      ministries has occurred under IBTA2 support.
                                                                                                      However, it is unclear to what extent the
                                                                                                      functional reviews were used as a basis for
                                                                                                      restructuring as some ministries retained
                                                                                                      non-core-policy activities (commercial). GOT
                                                                                                      intends to develop a Public Administration
                                                                                                      Reform Strategy under PRSP (institutional
                                                                                                      development part).
Customs                Develop a customs         Satisfactory to IDA:                                 (i) While further efforts will be required, progress
                       reform program which      (i) enact revision of the Customs code;              in the revision of the customs code in line with
                       includes:                                                                      international standards has been satisfactory for
                                                 (ii) adopt revisions of Customs procedures and       the purpose of SAC2. The current Customs Code
                       (i) revision of the       regulations and strengthen the internal audit        was initially adopted in April 1995 and amended
                       Customs code;             function;                                            in August 2001. In 2003, an entirely new
                                                                                                      customs code was prepared to fully comply with
                       (ii) revision of Customs  (iii) strengthen the internal audit function of      international standards by a working group of the
                       procedures and            customs administration                               Ministry of State Revenues and Duties. This
                       regulations and                                                                draft is modeled on the new Customs Code
                       strengthen the internal   (iv) start modernization of Customs.                 adopted by the Russian Federation in 2003 and is
                       audit function;                                                                currently being reviewed by other Government
                                                                                                      Ministries. A preliminary assessment by a World
                       (iii) strengthen the                                                           Bank consultant has been prepared,
                       internal audit function                                                        recommending that the draft be revised in a
                       of customs                                                                     number of areas to assure full compliance with
                       administration                                                                 WTO and other best practice requirements. This
                                                                                                      assessment has been shared with ADB and
                       (iv) a plan for the                                                            USAID who have in turn offer further assistance.
                       modernization of                                                               The new customs code has been adopted by
                       Customs over a 2 year                                                          Parliament in November 2004 and will become
                       period.                                                                        effective on of January 2005.
                                                                                                     q            (ii) The improvement of transparency
                                                                                                      and efficiency of the customs regime is an
                                                                                                      ongoing effort that will need to be pursued
                                                                                                      further. However, progress is satisfactory for the
                                                                                                      purpose of SAC2 as witnessed, among others a




                                                                     - 20 -

                                                                                                number of actions had been taken ensuring
                                                                                                unified tariffs for imports of goods of CIS and
                                                                                                non-CIS origin, simplified import procedures for
                                                                                                non-commercial imports and currency control for
                                                                                                imported goods.

                                                                                                q           In addition to that, The Government
                                                                                                of the Republic of Tajikistan adopted new decree
                                                                                                on customs tariffs (October 25th, 2003, No.
                                                                                                450).
                                                                                                 (iii) An internal audit department has been set
                                                                                                up within the MSRD. It was established
                                                                                                according to the Decree of the President of
                                                                                                Tajikistan dated January 24, 2002, No. 745 and
                                                                                                Resolution of the Government of the Republic of
                                                                                                Tajikistan dated February 12, 2002, No. 48.
                                                                                                The Customs Committee under the Government
                                                                                                of the Republic of Tajikistan has sent a letter
                                                                                                (#02-03-11/718 of 12/12/2001) to the structural
                                                                                                units of the customs authorities, instructing strict
                                                                                                compliance with the rules of keeping records in
                                                                                                the "Inspection Register".

                                                                                                The MSRD has approved the Single
                                                                                                All-Republican Plan for the inspections of
                                                                                                taxpayers, which is currently being executed to
                                                                                                streamline inspections.

                                                                                                (iv) The modernization of the customs
                                                                                                administration is an ongoing effort that will need
                                                                                                to be pursued further. However, the progress is
                                                                                                satisfactory. Currently, the Government actively
                                                                                                pursues further reforms of the customs
                                                                                                administration with donor assistance provided by
                                                                                                the ADB, the EU, and USAID among others.
Budget Planning,
Execution and
Expenditure
Tracking - Improve
effectiveness and
efficiency of public
resources
Treasury              Enact a Treasury Law      Transfer the bank accounts of ministries to     The bank accounts of the Borrower's various
                      and extend treasury       Treasury and consolidate these accounts of into Ministries have been consolidated under a single
                      coverage to all central   the Treasury's single account.                  Treasury Account according to the Law "On
                      and local government                                                      Treasury" that was enacted by Parliament on
                      transactions.                                                             May 12th, 2001, and the "Instruction On
                                                                                                Accounting And Reporting Procedures As To
                                                                                                Execution Of State Budget In Treasury" that was
                                                                                                approved by Order of the Ministry of Finance on
                                                                                                February 20, 2002 (#33). The Treasury Manual
                                                                                                has been prepared with the IMF's assistance.
Public finance        Submit to IDA and         Enact the Law on Public Finances.               The Law on State Finances was adopted by
                      IMF for final review                                                      Parliament on 28 June 2002 (#684), and was
                      draft Law on Public                                                       enacted on December 2, 2002, (#77).
                      Finances consistent with
                      modern budget concepts                                                    The Budget Framework papers were not
                      and processes, which                                                      officially considered by Government or
                      redefines the budget                                                      Parliament. The Public Expenditure and
                      preparation process in                                                    Institutional Review that is currently being
                      line with the role of the                                                 prepared by Bank staff will give
                      State in a market                                                         recommendations on how to further strengthen
                      economy, including the                                                    the MTBF process.
                      adoption of a
                      medium-term
                      expenditure framework
                      (MTEF).
Budget planning                                 Adopt a strategy for capacity building in line  On June 30, 2004, GOT issued new decree (No.
                      (i) prepare FY2002        ministries for MTEF budget preparation and      294) on establishment of budget committee
                      budget for Ministries of  execution.                                      which stipulated the establishment of the




                                                                  - 21 -

Agriculture, Education,  Prepare the 2002 budget for Ministries of    high-level Budget Commission (BC) chaired by
Health and               Agriculture, Education, Health, and          the Prime Minister BC management
Communication based      Telecommunications using the MTEF planning
on MTEF circular and     directives and process manuals.             consists of the Prime Minister
manuals                  Start preparation of 2003 budget for all    (Chairman), Minister of Finance
(ii) integrate PIP into  ministries according to MTEF planning       (Deputy Chairman) and Economic
MTEF and FY2002          directives and process manuals.             Reform and Foreign Investment
budget
(iii) incorporate loans                                              Department of President
and grants from                                                      Administration (Secretary). and
international                                                         consisting of twelve ministries (including line
organizations and other                                               ministries). All issues related to budget planning
donors into budget                                                    are addressed in recently completed PEIR. The
(iv) ensure adequate                                                  followings actions taken against specific
counterpart funds to                                                  measures in this policy area:
co-finance
externally-funded PIP                                                 (i) The budget instructions for the 2002 budget
(v) continue preparation                                              were approved and circulated to all governmental
of FY2003 based on                                                    agencies. Instructions required the Ministries of
MTEF planning                                                         Agriculture, Education, Health and
circulars and manuals                                                 Telecommunications to develop program
                                                                      budgets. The budget instructions for preparation
                                                                      of the 2004 budget were sent to all budget
                                                                      organizations (June 30th, 2003, No. 2(a)7/822)
                                                                      incorporating PIP and Key Budget Organization
                                                                      budgeting.

                                                                      (ii) While further reforms needed in this area, the
                                                                      PIP department was established at the Ministry of
                                                                      Finance in April 2002, which is now in charge of
                                                                      integrating the PIP into the budget process. The
                                                                      law "On State Budget for 2002" was adopted on
                                                                      December 25th, 2001, No. 45 which included
                                                                      the PIP programs. Budget Framework Papers for
                                                                      the 2002 and 2003 budgets, including the PIP,
                                                                      were developed.

                                                                      (iii) The incorporation of loans and grants from
                                                                      international financial institutions into the
                                                                      budgetary process is required by Resolution of
                                                                      the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
                                                                      (GOT), No. 498, dated December 31, 2002. This
                                                                      requirement has been met as loans and grants
                                                                      from international financial institutions and
                                                                      donors were incorporated into the budgetary
                                                                      process and reflected in the Laws On State
                                                                      Budget for 2002 (Dec. 25, 2001, No. 45), 2003
                                                                      (Dec. 2, 2002, No. 91) and 2004 (Dec. 16,
                                                                      2003, #75).

                                                                      (iv) Resolution of GOT, December 31, 2002
                                                                      (#498), all counterpart funds are to be allocated
                                                                      in the budget to assure the funding of all
                                                                      expenditure items.

                                                                      (v) The budget instructions for the 2003 budget
                                                                      were prepared on the basis of the MTBF,
                                                                      integrating the PIP, and circulated to all relevant
                                                                      governmental agencies. The Ministry of Finance
                                                                      has issued budget instructions for 2002, 2003,
                                                                      and 2004 incorporating components of the
                                                                      MTBF. In each of these years, agencies were
                                                                      asked to prepare their budgets for the budget year
                                                                      and make projections for the two subsequent
                                                                      years. In addition, in 2002 the Ministries of
                                                                      Agriculture, Education, Health, and
                                                                      Telecommunications were asked to prepare their
                                                                      budgets using a program budget format. The
                                                                      instructions for 2003 and 2004 require all
                                                                      Ministries to prepare their budgets in the
                                                                      program budget format. The Budget Reform




                                           - 22 -

                                                                                                      Project, supported by a component of IDA's
                                                                                                      Institution Building and Technical Assistance
                                                                                                      Project 2, drafted the instructions that the
                                                                                                      Ministry of Finance issued. PIP projects were
                                                                                                      included as a distinct item in the budget materials
                                                                                                      submitted to the Government and Parliament for
                                                                                                      all of these years. In addition, the budget
                                                                                                      allocated counterpart funds to finance the state
                                                                                                      share of the PIP projects.

Expendi-ture           Ensure sustainability of  Complete expenditure-tracking exercise in            Securing funds for critical sectors is being
tracking for Health    budget financing critical health and education sectors by December 2001.       exercised since budget FY2002.
and Education          social sectors            Adopt measures to ensure that the intended           The Bank approved an IDF grant in June 2003
                                                 agencies and segments of the population receive      to Goscomstat which will provide assistance to
                                                 entitled funds.                                      complete this expenditure tracking exercise.
Activity-based costing Start switching from      Prepare 2002 budget for health and education         The budget instructions for the 2002 budget were
for Health and         norm-based to             sectors according to activity-/population-based      approved and circulated to all governmental
Education              activity/population       costing.                                             agencies. Instructions required the Ministries of
                       based costing of          Adopt action plan for improving the process for      Agriculture, Education, Health and
                       programs in health and    the 2003 budget preparation exercise.                Telecommunications to develop program
                       education sectors as                                                           budgets. The budget instructions for preparation
                       pilot covering both                                                            of the 2004 budget were sent to all budget
                       Ministries at the central                                                      organizations (June 30th, 2003, No. 2(a)7/822)
                       and the local                                                                  incorporating PIP and Key Budget Organization
                       government levels.                                                             budgeting
Public investment      Prepare and publish       Put in place mechanism and integrate Public          The PIP department was established at the
planning               medium-term Public        Investment Program into the MTBF and 2002            Ministry of Finance in April 2002, and is in
                       Investment Program.       budget, incorporate loans and grants from            charge of integrating the PIP into the budget
                                                 international financial institutions and donors      process. The law "On State Budget for 2002"
                                                 into the budget, and allocate adequate               was adopted on December 25th, 2001, No. 45
                                                 counterpart funds in the budget in a timely          which included the PIP programs. Budget
                                                 manner.                                              Framework Papers for the 2002 and 2003
                                                 Continue policy for 2003 budget planning.            budgets, including the PIP, were developed.
                                                                                                      According to Resolution of GOT, December 31,
                                                                                                      2002 (#498), all counterpart funds are to be
                                                                                                      allocated in the budget to assure the funding of
                                                                                                      all expenditure items. The incorporation of loans
                                                                                                      and     grants    from     international   financial
                                                                                                      institutions into the budgetary process is required
                                                                                                      by Resolution of the Government of the Republic
                                                                                                      of Tajikistan (GOT), No. 498, dated December
                                                                                                      31, 2002.

                                                                                                      Loans and grants from international financial
                                                                                                      institutions and donors were incorporated into the
                                                                                                      budgetary process and reflected in the Laws On
                                                                                                      State Budget for 2002 (Dec. 25, 2001, No. 45),
                                                                                                      2003 (Dec. 2, 2002, No. 91) and 2004 (Dec. 16,
                                                                                                      2003, #75). In addition, the budget allocated
                                                                                                      counterpart funds to finance the state share of the
                                                                                                      PIP projects.

                                                                                                      The Public Investment Program (PIP) is now
                                                                                                      officially part of the budget process, PIP projects
                                                                                                      were included as a distinct item in the budget
                                                                                                      materials submitted to the Government and
                                                                                                      Parliament for all of these years and counterpart
                                                                                                      funding is listed as a distinct expenditure item
                                                                                                      within the State Budget. However, the process
                                                                                                      linking MTBF, PIP and the State Budget will
                                                                                                      need to be improved further in terms of coverage,
                                                                                                      adequate programming-budgeting targets
                                                                                                      (PEIR).
Financial Sector
Development -
Strengthen financial
intermediation and
confidence in
banking system
Banking supervision    Withdraw banking          (i) transfer the assets of banks to be closed to the While the ALCO was operational, the NBT has
                       licenses for 5 banks that Agency of Bank Liquidation and Credit                closed down 5 commercial banks not complying




                                                                     - 23 -

                       did not comply with the     Collection (ALCO) and start liquidating banks      with the minimum capital requirements. The
                       minimum capital             that cannot be merged with others.                 assets of these banks were transferred to ALCO
                       requirement.                                                                   in 2002. Later, however, due to a misperception
                                                   (ii) commence liquidation of assets of closed      of ALCO's responsibilities and its gradual
                                                   banks                                              transformation into a bank, IDA and the IMF
                                                                                                      agreed to its liquidation in 2003 and a transfer
                                                                                                      of its functions to the Banking Supervision
                                                                                                      Department of the NBT.
Bank exit                                                                                             The banks to be closed have either been
mechanism                                                                                             liquidated or merged and restructured as credit
                                                                                                      unions. Since 1997, 14 commercial banks have
                                                                                                      been closed. In 2003, the NBT revoked the
                                                                                                      license of another commercial bank, and imposed
                                                                                                      limitations on deposit collection on another.
                                                                                                      While the NBT is enforcing existing regulations,
                                                                                                      enforcement is not even between private and
                                                                                                      public banks, particularly vis-à-vis the Savings
                                                                                                      Bank and others.
Disclosure             Require each of the four    Continue to enforce requirement                    All 4 banks have issued their audited results.
                       largest banks to publish                                                       Recently is being done on an annual basis.
                       its audited financial
                       statements within 120
                       days of its fiscal
                       year-end.
Non-bank financial     Amend and further           Enact amendments                                   The Government is in the process of further
institutions, credit   develop the existing                                                           developing the regulatory framework with the
associations and rural regulatory framework                                                           help of ADB. The WB is also supporting this
credit                 for credit associations                                                        process. IFC provided technical assistance to
                       and rural credit                                                               develop a microfinance law. Law on
                       associations. Issue                                                            Microfinance Institutions was adopted on May
                       easy-to-understand                                                             17, 2004.
                       guidelines for
                       establishment and
                       regulations of non-bank
                       financial institutions.
Tax treatment of       Submit to Parliament        Amendments to the Tax Code in line with the      The Tax Code has been modified in accordance
banks, and tax         amendments to the Tax       requirements of this condition have been enacted with the condition through the amendments to the
conduct                Code:                       by the Parliament.                               Tax Code dated May 10th, 2002, # 45 (item 3 of
                       ·          to allow full                                                     article 135 of the Tax code) adopted by
                       tax deductibility of loan   The Government has appointed the National        Parliament.
                       loss provisions for         Bank and it has provided information about the
                       non-standard loans;         developments of the implementation of this       The Tax Code has been modified in accordance
                       ·          to change the    policy change.                                   with the condition through amendments to the Tax
                       basis of the property tax                                                    Code dated August 6th, 2001, # 34 (part 3, of Art.
                       base for banks from net                                                      261 of Tax code was deleted) and dated May 10th,
                       assets to fixed assets                                                       2002 (part 3 of Art. 261 introduced) adopted by
                       (land and buildings);                                                        Parliament.
                       ·          to preclude tax
                       authorities without                                                          The Tax Code has been modified in accordance
                       obtaining prior court                                                        with the condition through amendments to the Tax
                       order from:                                                                  Code dated May 10th, 2002, # 45 (introduced
                       -          conducting                                                        item "k" of Art. 104). Furthermore, the necessity
                       reviews of customer                                                          of providing a taxpayer's identification number
                       accounts while carrying                                                      when opening a back account was abolished for
                       out corporate tax                                                            natural persons in the amendments to the Tax
                       examinations of the                                                          Code in Law of RT No. 34, of August 6th, 2001
                       banks;                                                                       (articles 47, 83, 104).
                       -          impose fees
                       and penalties on client
                       accounts; and/or
                       freeze clients' or
                       financial institutions'
                       accounts.
Collateral              Submit     to   Parliament                                                    The law "On Collateral" has been amended,
                      amendments to the Law on                                                        replacing the previous 20 percent fee for
                      Collateral to:                                                                  transferring the ownership of the collateral upon
                      ·           replace the 20                                                      borrower's default by a simplified schedule based
                      percent fee for transferring                                                    on minimum wages and averaging no more than
                      the ownership of the                                                            3 percent of the value of the claim (Resolution of




                                                                     - 24 -

                      collateral upon borrower's                                                       the Government #135, from March 31, 2001).
                      default by a simplified
                      schedule based on                                                                The fee was unified for all types of collateral
                      minimum wages and                                                                (Resolution of the Government #135, from
                      averaging no more than 3                                                         March 31, 2001).
                      percent of the value of
                      claim;
                      ·           make it a
                      unified fee for all types of
                      collateral.
Private Sector
Development and
Governance -
facilitate private
sector development
and strengthen
corporate governance
Financial              Eliminate tax offsets and   Ensure through the Government's shareholder         (i) After initial delays, the most significant
transparency and       directed credits.           position in Bark-i Tajik, Tajiktelecom, and         arrears problem, the electricity arrears of the
accountability of key                              Tajik Gas:                                          aluminium smelter TADAZ, has now been
public enterprises                                 (i) that by December 2001 the accounts payable      credibly addressed. The large electricity arrears
and avoiding                                       and receivables of these enterprises are to be      that were accumulated by TADAZ since SAC2
accumulation of new                                kept current to no more than 90 days sales          became active in 2001 were settled in late 2003
arrears                                            equivalent and settled through cash                 and a record for staying current within 90 days of
                                                   mechanisms;                                         sales equivalent through cash mechanisms has
                                                   (ii) establish a track record for these enterprises been established.
                                                   and budgetary institutions to be current starting
                                                   in March 2002;                                      The key public utilities, TajikGas, Tajiktelecom,
                                                   (iii) that utility services to public enterprises   and BarkiTajik (the electricity utility) have
                                                   (including TADAZ), and to budgetary                 significantly improved collection rates overall
                                                   institutions are cut off if not current on          and, despite recent tariff increases, the large
                                                   payments.                                           majority of clients are current within 90 days
                                                                                                       sales equivalent on their payments under threat
                                                   Allocate in 2002 budget adequate resources for      of disconnection. Payment in kind has not been
                                                   budgetary institutions to pay for their utility     reported to us by the utilities concerned as a
                                                   bills.                                              major problem.

                                                                                                       (ii) In December 2001, the Government adopted
                                                                                                       a resolution requiring all budget entities to
                                                                                                       adequately plan their utility expenditures and not
                                                                                                       to accumulate utility arrears (#583, from Dec.
                                                                                                       10, 2001).

                                                                                                       (iii) According to the internal procedures of the
                                                                                                       utilities concerned, clients who are not current on
                                                                                                       their utilities are ultimately cut-off if the problem
                                                                                                       persists Some of these procedures avoid cut-off of
                                                                                                       vital utilities during the winter period for social
                                                                                                       reasons

Auditing and           Require annual IAS                                                              TADAZ has submitted three (2000-2002) audit
financial disclosure   audit of TADAZ from                                                             reports. The 2002 IAS audit report was not
                       2001, Barki Tajik,                                                              acceptable to the Bank. Following concerns
                       Tajik Air, and                                                                  regarding the 2002 audit issued on November 5,
                       Tajiktelecom from                                                               2003, PWC Accountants N.V. were contracted to
                       2002, Tajik Rail, and                                                           audited the 2002 financial statements of TADAZ
                       Tajik Gas from 2004,                                                            reissued in May 24, 2004, and found to be
                       using reputable                                                                 acceptable and in compliance with IAS.
                       international audit
                       firms.
Business Entry         Conduct business            On the basis of survey, adopt strategy              The results of the survey are have been analyzed
                       conditions survey to        satisfactory to IDA, to alleviate constraints to    but no strategy has been developed yet.
                       identify constraints to     new business formation and firm growth ,
                       new business formation      including licensing requirements, inspections,
                       and firm growth             and fees.
Farm land              (i) issue a decree          By the end of January 2002, have fully              (i) Computerized systems for accessing and
registration fees and  reducing land               functional computerized system for speedy           maintaining land use records were installed both
registration           registration fee for        public access to land use right records and         at the central and the rayon level of the State
procedures             (dehkan) farms.             maintenance of the integrity of the records in the  Land Committee (SLC). At rayon level, all local
                       (ii) eliminate the need     State Land Committee both at rayon and state        offices of the SLC were provided with basic



                                                                         - 25 -

                       for dekhan farms to       level.                                            equipment to maintain records and to provide
                       register as corporate                                                       public access. New geometric and positioning
                       entities.                 By January 2002, lower fee for registration of    equipments, mapping technologies and a digital
                                                 land use right certificates to US$6.              registration system were installed at state level
                                                                                                   for preparation of digital maps, a coordinated
                                                                                                   system of land registration and the issue of land
                                                                                                   use certificates. Staff at both rayon and state level
                                                                                                   are being trained to use the installed equipment.
                                                                                                   However, especially the training process needs to
                                                                                                   be scaled up and accelerated.

                                                                                                   (ii) The Government has adopted a resolution in
                                                                                                   accordance with the condition to fix the fee for
                                                                                                   issuance and registration of land use right
                                                                                                   certificates at the local currency equivalent of
                                                                                                   US$ 6 (Resolution of the Government dated 30th
                                                                                                   December, 2001, # 600).
Farm tax               Submit to Parliament      Implement pilot of single tax for private         Amendments were enacted by Parliament (May
                       amendments to the Tax     (dekhan) farms in 4 rayons.                       10, 2002). In August 2002 GOT identified four
                       Code simplifying the tax                                                    districts where single tax for private farms would
                       system to a single tax                                                      be piloted. Recently it is expanded to the whole
                       for private (dehkan)                                                        country.
                       farms thereby replacing
                       over ten different taxes,
                       as a pilot project to be
                       implemented in 4
                       rayons.
Access to courts       Reduce economic courts    Reduce economic court fee to a unified rate of 2  The Government adopted a resolution, reducing
                       fee on settlement of      percent of the value of claim.                    the fee to 2 percent.
                       claims from the current
                       10 percent of the value
                       of claim to about 4
                       percent on average to
                       encourage private sector
                       to utilize courts more in
                       the settlement of their
                       disputes.
Privatization strategy                           Adopt three-year strategic privatization plan for A time-bound strategic action plan for case by
for enterprises to be                            case-by-case privatization of large-scale and     case privatization of Medium and Large Scale
privatized on a                                  strategic enterprises to be privatized, according enterprises was adopted by the Government in
case-by-case basis.                              to agreed terms-of-reference and satisfactory to  the form of Resolution # 486 by the President of
                                                 IDA.                                              the Republic, dated 7th November 2003. The
                                                                                                   plan envisages the privatization of 457 medium
                                                                                                   and large enterprises, and the restructuring of
                                                                                                   more than 30 natural monopolies and other
                                                                                                   enterprises of special interest by the end of 2007.
                                                                                                   The Government has subsequently amended its
                                                                                                   regulatory framework for the implementation of
                                                                                                   this strategic plan which strives to ensure
                                                                                                   transparency in the privatization process through
                                                                                                   auctions and tenders, in Resolution # 98, dated
                                                                                                   March 1, 2004.
                                                                                                  For each enterprise covered in the plan, an
                                                                                                  intended year and method of privatization is
                                                                                                  specified. Over the first three years of the plan,
                                                                                                  through 2006, 392 enterprises are to be privatized.
                                                                                                  During 2007, another 65 enterprises are to be
                                                                                                  privatized and the natural monopolies and
                                                                                                  enterprises of strategic interest are to be
                                                                                                  restructured..
                                                                                                  As of September 2004, progress in aggregate on
                                                                                                  the implementation of the privatization strategy
                                                                                                  was reported to be ahead of schedule with 111
                                                                                                  enterprises privatized against a quota for the year
                                                                                                  of 110. While the mix of auctions and tenders
                                                                                                  were in minor variance with the original schedule,
                                                                                                  another 27 enterprises are scheduled to be
                                                                                                  privatized this year and this will bring the mix to
                                                                                                  compliance.
TADAZ Aluminum                                   By May 2002, the Government will issue a          (i) The auditor PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC)




                                                                    - 26 -

Plant                  (i) GOT to appoint an      resolution adopting a time-bound action plan,       Accountants N.V. was appointed to audit the
                       acceptable audit firm for  satisfactory to IDA, to achieve economic            2002 financial statements of TADAZ in
                       the purpose of audit of    viability of TADAZ on a sustainable basis. An       accordance with IAS
                       TADAZ in accordance        international consulting firm will assist with the  (ii) The audit for the 2002 financial statement
                       with IAS                   formulation of the action plan. The plan will       that was issued on 25th May 2004 by the above
                       (ii) complete the IAS      include measures for financial restructuring and    auditor was found to be acceptable and in
                       audit of TADAZ             re-capitalization, technical rehabilitation and     compliance with IAS. This audit replaces an
                       (ii) issue a resolution    operational restructuring based on the TADAZ        earlier version of the audit that was issued on 5th
                       adopting an action plan    study conducted with the support of the IFC and     November 2003 which had not been found to be
                       for TADAZ, setting         the outcome of the audit for 2000. The plan         acceptable. PWC re-issued the report in 2004.
                       forth the following: (a)   will also include concrete measures for making      TADAZ 2003 and 2004 audit report is expected
                       financial restructuring    available technical, market and managerial          to be issued early 2nd quarter in 2005.
                       and recapitalization; (b)  know-how through a contract with an                 (ii) The Government has drafted an action plan
                       technical rehabilitation   internationally reputable firm, which would be      on the basis of meetings held in Almaty in
                       and operational            hired according to World Bank competitive           February 2002 and this plan was reviewed by
                       restructuring; (c)         bidding procedures.                                 Bank staff. While most of the plan was
                       technical, managerial                                                          satisfactory to IDA, it still needs clarification
                       and market know-how                                                            how foreign investment into the plant will be
                       through a contract with                                                        obtained. In 2002, the Prime Minister approved
                       an international                                                               a time-bound action plan for TADAZ in line with
                       standard firm; and (d)                                                         the requirements of SAC2. (does that mean that
                       competitive selection                                                          in the end we were fine with it?) The
                       procedures, approved by                                                        implementation of this plan was delayed during
                       the Association, for the                                                       2003. However, the Government is currently
                       above-mentioned                                                                moving ahead with the implementation of the
                       contract.                                                                      action plan by hiring an external advisory team
                                                                                                      for TADAZ, to be funded by the UK's
                                                                                                      development agency DFID, in order to prepare a
                                                                                                      strategy for the restructuring and possible
                                                                                                      privatization of TADAZ.
Corporate              Carry out an enterprise    Establish annual census of financial and            The first part of the survey has been completed.
governance and         survey to assess the       physical condition of medium-size and large
disclosure             financial and physical     public enterprises.
                       condition of
                       medium-size and large      Corporatize by December 31, 2001 all                This is done.
                       public enterprises.        remaining medium and large enterprises that are
                       Create a group under       subject to privatization.
                       the Ministry of
                       Economy to monitor         Submit to IDA a progress report on the              Created. The group is operational but still not
                       state enterprises and      operational activities of the monitoring group,     effective.
                       establish a data base      including financial, production, and
                       updated quarterly on       employment data of public enterprises.
                       their financial condition,
                       production, and
                       employment.
                       Require all enterprises
                       that are subject to
                       privatization through
                       auction to submit their
                       2000 accounting
                       balance sheets to SPC
                       and quarterly
                       accounting balance
                       sheets in subsequent
                       years.
Privatiza-tion         Privatize 280 medium       Privatize 100 additional medium and large           Since the signing of the SAC2 Development
transactions of        and large enterprises.     enterprises with full effective payment.            Credit Agreement, over 250 Medium- and
medium and large                                                                                      Large-Scale Enterprises have been privatized
enterprises (that are  Adopt a rule that for
not in the             those enterprises, that
case-by-case           have not been sold on
privatization          two consecutive English
category).             auctions, the decision to
                       put on Dutch auction
                       will be taken within 4
                       weeks.
Farm Land Reforms      Issue Presidential         Publish and disseminate through mass media         General body meetings have been conducted in all
                       Decree directing           detailed regulations and step-by-step procedures   the required 60 SCFs. As a result, 40 farms have
                       Hukumats to accelerate     for privatization of SCFs and the role of local    been privatized and land use rights issued.
                       farm privatization and     authorities




                                                                      - 27 -

                       permit the conversion of                                                    As of September 2004, 556 out of 700 state and
                       at least 30 state and    By November 2001, Rayon level Hukumats to          collective farms were reorganized and the lands
                       collective farms (SCFs)  (a) have held general body (GB) meetings for at    were redistributed to private Dehkan farms, and
                       into smaller privately   least 60 SCFs for deciding for the right to use    individual farmers. A total of 21,000 land-use
                       managed farms.           SCF lands privately; and (b) have issued           certificates have been issued and distributed to
                                                approval for 40 SCFs to start the process of       private individual and dehkan farms through-out
                                                issuing land use certificates following the        the country
                                                procedures outlined in the LDP .
                                                                                                   The budget of the State Land Committee was
                                                The State Land Committee to have issued land       increased by 10.2% between 2001 and 2002, by
                                                use certificates to individuals or farm family     12.8% between 2002 and 2003, and by 9.5%
                                                groups of at least 40 farms by May 2002.           between 2003 and 2004. SLC has increased its
                                                Increase the budget of SLC by 10 percent for the capacity to achieve this objective by procuring and
                                                last six months of 2001 to enable it to undertake installing necessary equipment.
                                                the tasks indicated above.
Infrastructure
Sector Reform -
attract private
investment, increase
competition, allow
Government to focus
on its core function,
remove fiscal drain
Telecommunications                              Enact new Telecommunications Law                    The Law "On Telecommunication" was adopted
Law                                             establishing an independent sector regulator,       by Parliament in resolution #603 on April 10,
                                                opening up all market segments to competition       2002 and was enacted on May 10, 2002, # 56.
                                                and enabling transparent licensing regime
                                                allowing a multi-operator structure.                A resolution on the information regulator was
                                                                                                    approved by the Government in December 2003
                                                Establish independent telecommunications            (Resolution of the Government #532, dated
                                                sector regulator.                                   December 5, 2003). National Patent and
                                                                                                    information Center is tasked to take the
                                                                                                    responsibility for the establishment and
                                                                                                    management of an information resources register.

Telecommunications     Sign protocol for        Adopt a new telecommunications sector policy        The sector policy and strategy has been
sector strategy and    development of           and strategy for the privatization of               developed.
privatization          telecommu-nications      Tajiktelecom and adopt enabling regulations
                       sector policy and        for the issuance of new licenses to independent
                       strategy for the         private operators.
                       privatization of
                       Tajiktelecom and
                       enabling regulations for
                       the issuance of new
                       licenses to independent
                       private operators.
Air and rail transport In line with the new     Develop accounting methodology for separating       Underway with EBRD assistance.
                       Transport Law, develop   the revenues and costs of the three divisions of
                       a legal framework for    Tajik Air, i.e. (a) air company, (b) airports, and
                       separating the           (c) flight control services.
                       regulatory and
                       commercial functions of
                       Tajik Air and Tajik
                       Rail.

                       Create a Civil Aviation
                       Regulatory Department
                       to develop and enforce
                       the regulatory
                       framework for civil
                       aviation.




                                                                    - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                Component           Appraisal    Actual / Latest  Percentage of
                                    Estimate,     Estimate,        Appraisal
                                     US$ mln       US$ mln
                                      50.0           50.0             100
Total Baseline Cost                   50.0           50.0
      Total Project Costs             50.0
      Total Financing Required        50.0           50.0




                                         - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Jan. - Feb. 01              2    2 Economists                          S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Apr.-May 01                 2    2 Economists                          S               S

 Supervision
               08/2001                     1    1 Economist
               11/2002                     1    1 Economists                          U               S
               02/2002                     2    1 Economist, 1 SECO (Swiss
                                                representative
               06/2002                     3    2 Economists, 1 Private Sector        S               S
                                                Developoment Specialist
               07/2002                     2    2 Economists
               09/2002                     5    2 Economists, 1 private Sector
                                                Development Specialist, 1 Public
                                                Sector Management Specialist, 1
                                                ED Advisor
               11/2002                     2    2 Economists                          S               S
               06/2003                     2    1 Economist, 1 Private Sector         S               S
                                                Development Specialist
               09/2003                     2    1 Economist, 1 Private Sector         U               S
                                                Development Specialist
               01/2004                     2    1 Economist, 1 Private Sector         U               U
                                                Development Specialist
               04/2004                     1    1 Private sector Development          S               S
                                                specialist

 ICR
               TBD                      TBD      TBD

In most cases SAC supervision missions coincided with other PREM-managed portfolio missions.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 59.5                           161.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      14.5                           242.4
  Supervision                                  84                           508.4
  ICR                                          10                            30.9
  Total                                       168                           942.7




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

(1)      Report and Recommendations of the President of the International Development Association to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed second Structural Adjustment Credit in the Amount of SDR 39.4 Million (US$ 50 Million Equivalent)
to the Republic of Tajikistan, May 29, 2001
(2)      Development Credit Agreement, Date
(3)      Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the Executive Directors on the
Release of the Second IDA Tranche of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (P046047) in the Amount of SDR 19,700,000
to the Republic of Tajikistan, June 11, 2004
(4)      Project Supervision Reports / Aide-Memoirs from supervision missions (Project File)




                                                          - 34 -

- 35 -

