Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P-7461-TJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.4 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
May 29, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of May 2001)
Currency Unit = Somoni
US$1 = 2.5 Somoni
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
SAC2                Second Structural Adjustment Credit
I-PRSP             Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRST                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP                Letter of Development Policy
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
PAR                 Poverty Assessment Report
NBT                 National Bank of Tajikistan
PRGF                Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
IMF                International Monetary Fund
MTEF                Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PIP                 Public Investment Program
HPIC                Heavily Indebted Countries
IBTA2               Second Institution Building Technical Assistance
SACI               First Structural Adjustment Credit
PTFPAR              Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Reform
PARMU              Public Administration Management Unit
SMEs               mall-Scale Enterprises
ALCO               Agency for Bank Liquidation and Collection
IAS                 International Accounting Standards
LPG                 Liquid Petroleum Gas
TADAZ              Aluminum Plant
SOEs                State-owned Enterprises
IFC                International Finance Corporation
EBRD                European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
SCFs               State and Collective Farms
SLC                 State Land Conmmittee
ARC                 Agriculture Reform Committee
GATS                General Agreement on Trade in Services
WTO                 World Trade Organization
ADB                 Asian Development Bank
SPC                State Property Committee
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
Vice President                   Johannes Linn
Country Director                 Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director                  Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader                      Cevdet Denizer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Borrower:           Republic of Tajikistan    CREDIT SUMMARY
Amount:             SDR 39.4 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:              IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity, including a 10 year grace
period
Objectives:         The proposed credit will support the implementation of the first
stages of reforms outlined in the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which was endorsed by the Board of the
World Bank on October 31, 2000. The proposed credit will
provide foreign exchange to maintain essential imports, boost
international reserves, and provide non-inflationary financing for
the budget. An important objective of the proposed credit is to
support policy reforms that will improve governance in general.
Reforms in this area aim to improve public sector management,
service delivery, and budget and expenditure planning. The
Government's cross cutting reform program to support private
sector development includes policy actions in the financial sector,
privatization and enterprise reforms, and reforms in the
infrastructure sectors.
Benefits:           The credit would provide the Tajik government with financial
support to cover the short-term cash associated with continued
economic reforms and other measures dictated by the I-PRSP. In
this connection, major benefits would be (i) improved
governance; (ii) establishment of a government budget audit
office; public administration reforms; customs administration
reforms; (ii) improved fiscal management and new budgetary
procedures, development of a medium term expenditure
framework (MTEF) and the establishment of a treasury system;
(iii) acceleration of financial sector restructuring and closure of
weak banks, new regulatory framework for the establishment of
non-bank intermediaries; significant changes in the tax code
making tax authorities access to bank accounts conditional on
court authorization, measures to develop secondary market for
treasury securities; (iv) acceleration of privatization of medium
and large enterprises and farm land, improvements in the
regulatory framework and support for entrepreneurs, reductions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
of taxes on the agricultural sector, development of a three year
strategic privatization plan for key enterprises on a case-by-case
basis, major improvements to the corporate governance
framework of public enterprises; and (v) reform of the
infrastructure sectors, including separation of regulatory and
commercial functions of the Tajiktelekom, development of a
preparation of a modern telecommunications law that would
allow the emergence of a multi-operator industry structure,
creation of a Civil Aviation Authority, splitting the costs and
revenues of Tajik Air's three divisions in order to prepare it for
privatization; and splitting of Tajik Rail into three different and
separate business units in order to improve its efficiency and
creation of the Rail Transport Department to regulate railways.
Risks:              The proposed credit has four potential risks. The first is political,
originating from deterioration of the regional security situation
and possible domestic political disagreements which could delay
or stall the reform process. While the signing of the peace
arrangement in 1997 and holding of general elections in late 1999
and early 2000 resulting in a new parliament reduced this risk
significantly by establishing a proper forum for power sharing
arrangements, it is conceivable that regional or domestic political
problems could arise and slow the reform process. The second
risk is the Government's implementation capacity.  As the
experience with SACI suggests, the Government's understanding
of the need for implementing reforms on a sustained basis may
not always be guaranteed. Periods of relatively rapid progress
have been followed by significant slowdown of reforms and in
some cases the urgency of some measures was questioned by the
Government. This possibility exists and its minimization would
require the maintenance of a strong policy dialogue with the
Government. The implementation process with IBTA2 has also
shown that the importance of timely technical assistance may not
always be realized by the implementing agencies and dealing
with this issue would require close supervision of the project.
The third significant risk is related to the restructuring of external
debt with major creditors with implications for fiscal and external
sector sustainability. While Tajikistan has been discussing this
issue with its key creditors for some time now, it is still not clear
how much of the debt would be restructured and this is a source
of concern. The fourth risk is related to international reserves
position. The level of reserves are already low and further
deterioration could negatively impact foreign exchange
management. In this context, the assurance of a sound
macroeconomic framework with the ongoing implementation
IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility is particularly
important.



Hi1
Schedule of
Disbursements:      The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranches each of
SDR 19.7 million (US$25 million equivalent). The first tranche
will be disbursed upon effectiveness. The second tranche is
expected to be disbursed by June 2002 following the fulfillment
of tranche release conditions.
Poverty Category:    The proposed credit is expected to have significant impact on
poverty by allowing the Government to maintain priority social
expenditures identified in the I-PRSP while putting in place
mechanisms to reduce the volatility of such expenditures through
budgetary reforms in the context of the MTEF. In this
connection,  starting  the   process   of  switching  to
activity/population based costing and allocating of expenditures
in health and education using the new MTEF processes would be
particularly beneficial for the poor.  The proposed credit is
expected to have a major impact on rural poverty, where 70
percent of all poor live, by supporting the implementation of land
reforms in a transparent and equitable manner. The credit would
also support structural reforms that will materially improve the
investment climate and help maintain high economic growth
rates Tajikistan attained over the past two years, which is the
main mechanism to reduce poverty on a sustained basis.
Rate of Return:     N/A
Project ID Number:   P-7461-TJ



iv
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
I. THE ECONOMY                                                          I
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                   1
MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING PLAN                              3
II. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY                                    5
INTERIM POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY                            5
MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM FOR 2001-2002                           6
STRUCTURAL REFORMS                                            8
Public Sector Management                                 8
Budget Planning and Public Expenditure Management       11
Financial Sector Development                            12
Private Sector Development and Governance               14
Privatization and Enterprise Reforms                    17
Infrastructure Sector Reforms                           19
PART III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                20
Links to CAS and Other Bank Operations                  20
Objectives and Design of the Proposed Credit            21
Tranche Conditionalities                                23
Financial Arrangements                                  26
Environmental Assessment                                27
Risks                                                   27
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION                                                 28
Annexes
I.   Letter of Development Policy
Attachment: Policy Framework Matrix
II.  Statement of IDA Credits and IFC Investments
III. Key Economic Indicators
IV   Tajikistan at a Glance Table
V.  Key Exposure Indicators
VI.  Timetable of Key Project Processing Events



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) to the Republic of Tajikistan for
SDR 39.4 million (US$50 million equivalent). This credit would be disbursed in two
tranches to provide financial support for the implementation of the first stages of the
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) endorsed by the
Board on October 31, 2000. The proposed credit would contribute to the maintenance
of economic stability, provide support for reforming public sector management and
developing market institutions to improve governance, and deepen economic reforms in
the key sectors of the economy. Cumulatively, these reforms would accelerate
economic growth and help reduce the wide-spread poverty. The proposed operation
includes reforms in public sector management, budget planning and execution, financial
sector, privatization and private sector development, and reform of the transport and
telecommunications sectors. This program is described in a Letter of Development
Policy (LDP) from the Government (Annex 1), and summarized below. The proposed
credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a 40 year maturity, including a 10 year
grace period. A Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) was distributed to the Board
in April 2001.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
1.1 RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
1.   Tajikistan gained independence in late 1991 as one of the poorest countries in the
former Soviet Union (FSU) and immediately faced the loss of transfers from the center,
which amounted to as much as 40 percent of GDP in the late 1980s. More importantly,
the eruption of the civil conflict in 1992, which continued with some interruptions until
1997, paralyzed the reform process. As a result, the achievement of price stability and
implementation of structural reforms were delayed until 1997. In addition, Tajikistan
was hit by a number of natural disasters, including floods, mudslides, and avalanches.
The combined effect of these developments and the break-up of the FSU has been a
severe contraction in measured GDP between 1991 and 1997 of about 60 percent on a
cumulative basis.
2.   The situation drastically improved when a peace agreement between the
Government and the United Tajik Opposition was signed in mid-1997. The process of
national reconciliation enabled the Government to focus on a reform program, which
was originally developed in 1996 with the assistance of the IMF and World Bank. The
authorities were successful in controlling inflation, and reform efforts were renewed,
with reasonably significant achievements to date.  Small-scale privatization was
completed in 1999, and large-scale enterprise reforms were initiated. Progress was



2
made in the agricultural sector-by 2001, usage rights to about 40 percent of farm land
had been transferred to private sector. Financial sector restructuring began in 1998
although the process has been slower than expected. As a result of this package of
reforms and a more stable political environment, GDP started to grow in 1997. The
GDP growth in 2000 was 8.3 percent bringing the cumulative growth rate between 1997
and 2000 to 20 percent.
3.   While these are positive developments, the country is facing many challenges, the
most important being the reduction of poverty. As well as experiencing the effects of
transition, the country is still suffering from the after effects of the civil war which has
left deep rooted economic and social problems. The World Bank's recent Poverty
Assessment Report (PA) shows that the severe contraction of output between 1991 and
1997 was associated with a rapid rise in poverty. According to various estimates, 60-80
percent of the population now live in poverty. With an estimated per capita GNP of
about $290, Tajikistan is the poorest country in the former Soviet Union (FSU). Thus,
it is critical to sustain and accelerate economic growth to reduce poverty.  The
Government's I-PRSP was a first step in that direction and the Government is in the
process of developing a full-fledged PRSP. The authorities have set up a Presidential
working group and established nine sector working groups who are developing detailed
sector policies to support growth and reduce poverty.
4.   On the external side, Tajikistan has run trade and current account deficits financed
through external borrowing and arrears accumulation since the early years of
independence. The rising debt problem, which is discussed further in para. 11 below,
required a reduction of deficits by cutting non-essential imports and increasing export
earnings. Despite the introduction of flexible exchange rate policies in 1996 that
adjusted in line with inflation, current account deficits remained high at about 9.3
percent in 1998. Following the Russian crisis and real devaluation of the Tajik ruble,
the country's foreign trade deficit declined. In 1999, the current account deficit was
reduced to 3.7 percent of GDP before expanding again in 2000 to 6.5 percent as imports
of food and seeds increased necessitated by the drought. The current account position is
still vulnerable, and continued close monitoring and policy response by the Government
will be critical in the coming years.
5.   The tightening of Tajikistan's monetary policy stance in late 1997 brought a
degree of stability in 1998. Inflation was reduced from 163 percent in 1997 to about 3
percent in 1998, due to strengthened financial discipline. However, the Russian crisis
introduced an external shock, prompting the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) to
increase directed lending to the government in late 1998. The shock led to the
depreciation of the Tajik ruble by 50 percent (August 1998-August 1999) and
contributed to inflation of over 30 percent in 1999. Periods of monetary tightening have
been interrupted by reversions to inflationary budget financing and allocation of
directed credits to state enterprises and farmers. Inflation increased in 2000, in part
caused by a temporary depreciation that occurred soon after the introduction of the new
currency, the Somoni, and it exceeded 60 percent for the year. However, January 2001
figures suggest inflation is moderating. Recent Government policies in this area aim for
consistency over time to establish and maintain credibility. The monetary policy stance



3
is expected to be tight to further support financial discipline in the economy and ensure
a viable external position.
6.  In late 1997, the government successfully contained the fiscal expansion of the
first half of the year, bringing the budget deficit to under 4 percent and keeping it below
that level since then. The next year, the government reduced sales taxes on cotton and
aluminum, which accounted for more than one-third of total budget revenues.
Combined with a decline in aluminum and cotton fiber prices, this led to a fall in total
revenue from the sales tax on these commodities, which in 1999 was compensated
through better administration and collection of personal income, property, and payroll
taxes, as well as grants from abroad. In 2000, budget performance improved somewhat
with consolidated budget deficit outcome for the year as a whole at 0.6 percent of GDP,
lower than envisioned under the IMF program. However, public finances are strained,
which, together with low revenues (13.5 percent of GDP) and growing foreign debt
service requirements, makes fiscal sustainability an issue and without a new round of
debt reschedulings, fiscal sustainability will not be achieved.
1. 2 MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING PLAN
7.   Medium Term Targets. The Government's I-PRSP lays out the main elements
of the country's transition strategy to a fully market-based economy and to reduce
poverty by accelerating economic growth. The I-PRSP is being supported by a Poverty
Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) of the IMF. The Government's program, covering
the 2001-2003 period as outlined in the I-PRSP aims at: (i) maintaining a GDP growth
rate of at least 5 percent annually; (ii) reducing inflation to 7 percent annually; (iii)
maintaining a viable current account position and managing external debt carefully, and
increasing official international reserves to three months of imports; and (iv)
introducing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and other initiatives to
strengthen procedures for fiscal policy implementation in general and to ensure efficient
expenditure management. This framework will ensure that sector policy strategies will
be costed realistically and associated expenditures taken into account in a medium-term
macroeconomic framework.
8.  In order to meet the inflation and foreign reserve targets, the Government's
strategy is based on tight fiscal and monetary policies. The Government is deepening
structural reforms in all sectors in order to ensure financial discipline in the economy.
In the real sectors, the Government's key policy objective is to support private sector
growth. The Government is in the process of enacting laws and developing a legal and
regulatory framework with a view to create a favorable investment environment and to
facilitate new business entry. In order to achieve growth objectives and to support
private sector development, the Government is attaching great importance to
strengthening of governance in the public as well as the private sector. To that effect, a
number of important laws related to public sector management have been enacted and
public administration reforms have been initiated.



4
9.   While the Government is expecting large productivity gains from reforms,
sustainable growth now requires new investment. Over the last decade the civil war and
natural disasters have inflicted severe damage on the country's infrastructure and
investment needs are large.  However, private savings and investment are still
recovering and at about 5 percent and 7 percent of GDP respectively, are too low to
support economic growth. Given this situation, the Government has developed a Public
Investment Program (PIP) and presented in the Consultative Group meeting in May
2001. Public investment needs are large and resource requirements indicated in the PIP
over the next couple of years would amount to 5-7 percent of GDP, which may not be
realistic.
10. External Debt, Financing Needs and Creditworthiness. At the end of 2000,
Tajikistan's total external debt stock was about US$1.2 billion (118 per cent of GDP),
of which about US$0.85 billion is publicly owned. Debt service costs of the public
sector rose from US$17 million in 1999 to around US$47 million in 2000 which
corresponds to around 4 percent of GDP. Debt service costs are projected to rise
rapidly in the coming years and average about US$63 million between 2001-2010, or
about 7 percent of GDP. Achieving external sustainability under these conditions
depends on attaining high growth rates, debt rescheduling by key creditors, new
concessional loans, and strong tax revenue performance. While Tajikistan is at an
advanced stage of debt discussions with Russia, there is still uncertainty on the amounts
to be restructured. On the other hand, negotiations are less advanced with Uzbekistan,
the other major creditor.
11. Public debt to GDP ratio was about 91 percent of GDP at end-2000. The net
present value of debt was about 420 percent of government revenues in 2000. If the
HPIC threshold of 250 percent is used as a guide, then the debt is not fiscally
sustainable. Unless restructured, close to 45 percent of total revenues would be
absorbed by debt service costs in the coming years which would force further
reductions in social spending, already lowest in FSU. If external debt talks with Russia
and Uzbekistan are successful, growth is robust, and provided that there is new
concessional lending, a gradual decline in the debt service to government revenue ratio,
to around 25 percent by 2005 could be expected. If growth is slower, and the external
trading environment is more difficult, or there is a real exchange rate depreciation, the
fiscal situation would be considerably worse. In that case it is highly likely that debt
service to public revenues ratio could exceed 50 per cent between now and 2005, which
in turn would necessitate drastic expenditure cuts. If the country is hit by an external
shock and this leads to a real depreciation of the exchange rate, it is possible that debt
service costs absorb more than 70 percent of budget revenues during the next two years.
12. In view of the fact the country is facing a foreign debt problem, external financing
needs are large and could be ranging from 6-10 percent of GDP in the next couple of
years. Available commitments and disbursements data from international financial
institutions and other identified sources indicate that there will be an average financing
gap of about US$45 million between 2001-2005. However, net international reserves
would still be negative. This is an important issue affecting overall macroeconomic
stability. Preliminary estimates suggest that additional US$30-40 million would be



5
needed to have a positive net international reserve position bringing the total to about
US$75-85 million. If the additional resource requirements implied by the recently
issued PIP are added, financing requirements would increase by between US$50-70
million per annum and this would bring the total requirements to US$125-155 million
until 2003.
PART II. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY
11. 1 THE INTERIM POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
13. In its poverty reduction strategy issued to the public in October 2000, the
Government stipulated that its program to reduce poverty would be based on the
following key principles: encouragement of export-led and labor-intensive growth;
sufficient provision of basic social services; targeted income support to the poorest; and
efficient governance and increased security. The Government's I-PRSP recognizes that
sustaining high growth rates Tajikistan attained over the past years requires deepening
of reforms. While this means pressing ahead with structural reforms without delays, the
policy environment is now much more conducive to do so than before given that the
general elections of late 1999 and early 2000 produced a reform-minded Government
backed strongly by the new Parliament.
14. Maintaining macroeconomic stability would provide the necessary basis for
structural and institutional reforns which would help to reduce potential disruptions and
instabilities that could come from external shocks, such as unfavorable movements in
aluminum and cotton prices, and enhance the prospects for sustainable long-term
growth. The critical issue in this connection would be the restructuring of external debt.
In order to maintain a viable external position, the Government is following a freely
floating exchange rate policy and is committed to maintain it. Monetary policy will be
tight, especially after the bout of inflation in 2000, and to support external viability. An
important element of monetary policy is prohibition of directed credits. Fiscal and
budgetary reforms, together with the newly-created Treasury, will form the backbone of
the Government's fiscal policy. The Government is developing a MTEF which would
be an integral element of a more effective fiscal policy.
15. The Government sees economic growth as the principal mechanism for providing
the future generations with opportunities to find adequate employment and reach higher
living standards. To this end, the government will conduct sound macroeconomic
policies; promote enterprise restructuring and private sector development with priority
in agriculture; encourage financial sector development; improve telecommunication and
other infrastructure; and rehabilitate the energy and transport sectors. Higher per capita
income growth will be based on private sector initiative. The government will support
radical enterprise restructuring and create a favorable environment for the development
of the private sector. It will improve the utilization of resources in the public sector
while redirecting expenditures so that they will benefit the poor.



6
16.  The country's comparative advantage is in its agricultural sector with abundant
water resources, favorable climatic conditions for crop production and live-stock
farming, and a cheap labor force. Restructuring the agricultural sector is a priority for
poverty reduction as poorest families live in rural areas. Since land resources are
limited, increase in farm productivity is a key. Agricultural restructuring will therefore
focus on the development of private farming, (in particular small-scale) which has
proved to yield the highest productivity and best distribution of income. Land reform is
a critical component of policies dealing with rural poverty and the Government fully
realizes the importance of this matter.
17. Due to the lack of capital and excess labor resources (true unemployment is
estimated at 33 percent) the Government will implement policies to encourage labor-
intensive growth. An element of the PRSP exercise is to analyze, and if necessary
revise, the legislation and rules regulating the labor market. Labor market policies and
social insurance programs will be developed with a view to creating a flexible labor
market.  Training programs consistent with current needs will continue to be
implemented and focused specifically on training and retraining people dismissed as a
result of privatization and structural adjustment.
18. The government will also take measures to create a competitive banking system,
to ensure a stable environment for the provision of financial services to the population
and enterprises. In addition, it will implement policies to encourage the development of
telecommunication and other infrastructure sectors to increase competitiveness in the
context of global trade to maximize growth and the development of highest value added
goods for exports. The government recognizes that emerging internet technologies are
essential for Tajikistan, especially for the younger generations and for teaching in
schools.
19.  Provision of basic social services is the second key direction of the proposed
strategy. The availability of basic services in the areas of education and health, as well
as their high quality, are not only a human right but also a substantial poverty
alleviation factor. The government is working to improve these services through
developing new policies, targeted interventions with donor support and using cost
recovery mechanisms. The Government will seek to update the quality and level of
education, as well as the quality of health care provided to the poor. The income
support element of the strategy on poverty alleviation aims at providing targeted
assistance to the poorest, i.e. people experiencing utmost difficulties or needs. This
category includes children and the elderly. New frameworks for these programs arising
out of the PRSP and other strategic working groups should include mechanisms for
targeting the poorest, and redistribution mechanisms to ensure equity of access, which
at present has been weakened.
11. 2 MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM FOR 2001-2002
20. Consistent with the medium term macroeconomic objectives, the Government's
program supported by the PRGF for the 2001-2002 period aims at: (i) sustaining the
growth rate of real GDP at about 5 percent of GDP; (ii) reaching agreements with major



7
creditors on rescheduling and amortizing of debt; (iii) reducing the current account
deficit to 6 percent of GDP from 6.5 percent in 2000; (iv) reducing inflation to 16
percent in 2001 from over 60 percent in 2000; and (v) providing for an additional
reserve build-up of about US$14 million in 2001 and US$51 million in 2002 which will
bring gross international reserves to US$101 million (2.1 months of imports) and
US$152 million (2.4 months of imports) respectively. However, net reserves will
continue to be negative in the amount of US$29 million and US$18 million for 2001
and 2002 respectively.
21.  Given the large debt service requirements, an important element of the
Government's program is to manage the external sector carefully and support export-
oriented growth policies. The economy is very open with merchandise exports
equivalent to 65 percent of GDP in 2000. The country's foreign trade regime remains
fairly liberal, in terms of quantitative restrictions or non-tariff barriers, and average
tariffs of 5.5 percent of imports.  The Government realizes that external debt
sustainability will not be attained unless the large current account is reduced. In 1999,
the current account deficit was 3.4 percent of GDP. However, due to strong growth in
2000, energy costs, and effects of the drought, the current account deficit increased to
about 6.5 percent of GDP. For 2001, the Government is targeting a slight reduction in
the deficit to 6 percent of GDP due to expected strong export growth of aluminum and
cotton. The authorities are committed to adhering to the floating exchange rate policy
and avoid intervening in the foreign exchange market.
22. The Government's macroeconomic framework aims to reduce inflation and to
maintain a viable external position. The Government is taking steps to have a
consistent and credible monetary policy and this is necessary as inflation was about 60
percent in 2000, up from 31.3 percent in 1999. In part, this was due to the depreciation
that occurred soon after the introduction of the new currency, the Somoni. The slippage
was also due to the higher than expected increase of the reserve money which in turn
was caused by unsterilized purchases of foreign exchange inflows from cotton exports.
The NBT has already taken steps to control liquidity and this reduced inflationary
pressures. Average monthly price increases were around one percent during the
December 2000 to February 2001 period. The Government's program is targeting to
cut inflation to 16 percent for 2001. Directed lending by the NBT will continue to be
prohibited. All new credit to the private sector will be supplied through market-based
auction and be limited by the amount of NBT's loan recovery from its directed credits
issued earlier in excess of programmed amounts. The Government and the NBT are
also taking measures to facilitate trading of bonds and bills and these and other
institutional improvements will contribute to more efficient monetary policy
management.
23.   Continued sound fiscal policy remains central to the Government's efforts to
further stabilize the economy. The Government's program is aiming to increase revenues
and to manage expenditures carefully. Expenditures on subsidies, goods and services,
and public investment have already been reduced. These reductions more than offsets the
increases in social spending although these are still the lowest in the FSU.  The
Government is strengthening its tax administration and it is expected that revenues would



8
grow slightly, by about 0.2 percent of GDP during 2001. This is despite the fact that the
Government is further cutting the sales tax applied to aluminum and cotton exports this
year to enhance export competitiveness. However, revenues would still remain low at
around 13.7 percent of GDP. The budget deficit improved from 3.1 percent of GDP in
1999 to only 0.6 percent in 2000, and the program is targeting a further decline to 0.5
percent of GDP in 2001. The extension of treasury coverage to the central government
and local governments country-wide in March 2001 would lead to a significantly
improved expenditure control. The management of expenditures in the context of the
macroeconomic framework would further be strengthened with the development of the
MTEF and with the adoption of modern budget planning processes which are being
supported by the Bank's Second Institution Building and Technical Assistance project
(IBTA2) and SAC2.
11. 3. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
24.   The Government's structural reform agenda is outlined in the I-PRSP and aims
for initiating public sector management reforms and developing market institutions, and
deepening reforms already started under SAC1. Strengthening governance is key. The
current structural reform program includes: (i) public administration reforms in order to
improve the efficiency of the public sector and transparency and to better support the
private sector; (ii) introduction of modern budget preparation and management processes
and a medium term expenditure framework; (iii) further development of market
institutions to support the expansion of private sector activities; (iv) acceleration of the
privatization of public enterprises and development of a strategic plan for private sector
involvement in key large public enterprises; (v) restructuring of the banking sector and
deepening of financial sector reforms; and (vi) reform the transport and
telecommunications sector with a view to attract private investment and to modernize
existing systems. The Government's program gives priority to govemance and the
proposed reforms provide a framework for starting the process of rationalizing services in
the education and health sectors. In this context, the functions of education and health
ministries are being redefined and their organizational structures are restructured in line
with their new roles in a market-based system. In addition, reforms in budget planning
area emphasize education and health and initiate measures to improve expenditure
management in these two important sectors.
Public Sector Management Reforms
25.   Civil strife and the establishment of the new Parliament only in the first quarter of
2000 did not permit the initiation of comprehensive public sector reforms. As a result,
key policy reforms in redefining the role of the State in a market economy, policies to
improve transparency of the public sector, reorganizing ministries and government
agencies in line with their new functions in a free market economy context could not be
implemented. With political stability and a reasonable degree of macroeconomic stability
achieved, the Government is beginning to implement policies to reforn the public sector
and its management including building market institutions and strengthening
transparency and accountability of the public sector. The Government realizes that the
effectiveness of reforms in all areas depend upon a sound institutional framework which



9
is necessary for improved governance. The Government's program covers a number of
areas ranging from the audit of the budget to civil service salaries and to the support of
civil society organizations. Improvements in this area will take time and resolution of
problems could only take place within a medium-term context.
26.   Budget Audit and Central Bank Operations.  Reflecting the Government's
commitment to improving transparency and accountability of the public sector, the
authorities are taking steps to audit the budget and disclose the results to Parliament.
Until recently, there were no legal framework for budget audits and the Government
recognized this as a shortcoming of the system. In January 2001, through a Presidential
decree "State Financial Control Office" was created and this office is now responsible for
auditing the budget. An interim charter has been issued and at present this agency reports
to the President. The responsibilities of the State Financial Control Office are being
further refined to include provisions for advising the Parliament of its findings. These
provisions will be reflected in a law that is under preparation which is expected to be
submitted to Parliament by end June 2001. The Government is also taking steps to
ensure that the NBT does not issue directed credit to any sector nor engage in quasi-fiscal
operations.
27.   Public Administration Reforms, Civil Service Salaries, and Customs Reforms.
The structure and organization of the Government has been in need of reforms since
independence to make it consistent with the new role of the State in the economy. The
Governnent started the reform  process in February 1999 when it established a
Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Reform (PTFPAR). In June 1999, a
project implementation unit has been set-up to support the PTFPAR. These efforts were
supported by IBTA2 and functional reviews of the key ministries at the central level were
undertaken. The first phase of reforms redefines the functions of each ministry, primarily
assigning them the policy making role and separates their regulatory and commercial
functions. All commercial operations of ministries will be transferred to non-sectoral
ministries, including the SPC, for eventual privatization. The functional reviews have
also found that some of the ministries are managing institutions and agencies not
consistent with their newly defined roles. The Government will determine an appropriate
ministry or agency for these institutions and transfer these through a decree by May 2002.
The regulatory functions of the Ministry of Telecommunications will be transferred to an
institutionally independent regulatory agency to be established under the new law on
telecommunications, which is currently being prepared.
28.   Under the functional reviews the basic structure and organization of each ministry
is also reviewed and a new structure is proposed.  Ministries will develop new
organizational and administrative structures in line with the functional reviews and these
will be approved by the Government. In the next step, the ministries will develop plans
to restructure the sectors they are responsible for following the sector strategies proposed
in the PRSP over a medium-term and extend reorganization to local government level. In
line with this process the Transport Ministry has already been reorganized and a new
Ministry of Energy was created. The Government has started implementing the first
stage of restructuring 4 more ministries, including health, education, agriculture, and
telecommunications based on the functional reviews. This round of reorganization will be



10
implemented during the remainder of 2001 and completed by May 2002. A Presidential
Decree, specifying the new functions of each ministry, has been issued in March 2001.
Detailed reorganization plans for all four ministries will be developed and submitted to
the Government by December 2001. Following Government approval, reorganization of
each ministry will begin to be implemented in June 2001. By December 2001 these
ministries will determine the enterprises or institutions to be transferred to either the SPC
or to a more appropriate ministry. The Government will then issue a decree authorizing
the transfers and approve the resulting structure of each ministry. Other ministries will
be restructured in the coming years.
29.   As part of the reforms in the public sector management area the Government
issued two new decrees in early 2001 and provided the organizational structure for the
Department of State Services which is essential for introduction of a merit-based civil
service and effective implementation of the ministries restructuring plan.  The
Government is planning to appoint the Director and key staff for this department by the
end of the current year. In parallel to these reforms, the authorities undertook a review of
civil service salaries and they are in the process of developing a plan for revising salary
schedules by end 2001.
30.   Customs reforms are an integral element of public sector reforms.  The
Government has already developed a customs reform program with the support of
IBTA2. The program includes a revised customs code to bring it to international
standards and new procedures and regulations for to improve the customs clearance
process by better defining conditions, terms, and procedures for exporters and importers.
The internal audit and enforcement division to control corruption has already been
strengthened. The organizational structure of the Customs Committee, including its
staffing situation, will be reviewed and measures will be put in place to make it a more
efficient organization. The reform program will be further refined and submitted to the
Government by March 2002. Following the approval of the plan by the Government,
implementation will begin by May 2002.
31.   Business Inspections and Registration Fees for NGOs and the Population. Recent
business conditions surveys have shown that private businesses suffer from too many
inspections. A World Bank survey found that tax officials, on average, inspected the
same businesses 3 times in a 4 month period. In order to start addressing this problem in
the short term, the Government has developed a black-book scheme to stop unreasonable
interference with private sector activities. Under the scheme each business will maintain
a book to record visits by officials. The reasons for inspecting and identity and agency of
the visiting official will be recorded. The results will be signed by both the business
owner and the government official.  If the owner of the business disagrees with
inspection results he/she will record this in the black-book. The Government will collect
a sample of these black books and analyze the data and take steps to deal with the
emerging issues. Implementation of this scheme has begun and there will be a review of
the results by March 2002. The Government is committed to take action against officials
if it is deemed that their inspections were excessive. The newly-created Anti-Monopoly
and Entrepreneurship Support Agency will be developing guidelines and reviewing
inspection activities of the various agencies of the Government involved in the



I1
supervision of private sector to deal with this issue in a medium-tern context. In order to
support the civil society and NGOs, the Government has reduced their registration fees.
The Government has also reduced fees on birth and death certificates from US$3 to US$1
so as to encourage people to register.
Budget Planning and Public Expenditure Management
32.   Tajikistan inherited a budgetary and expenditure management system that is based
on central planning principles which includes processes and regulations that are not
consistent with the role of the State in a market economy nor efficient fiscal management.
Since improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures through
budgetary reforms is one of the major objectives of the Government, major reforms are
being introduced in this area with the support of IBTA2.  Such reforms are also
necessitated by the ongoing implementation of public administration reforms. An
important consideration in this context is the need for a Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) which establishes a link between macroeconomic targets, public
expenditures, the public investment program (PIP) and the foreign debt position. The
Government is in the process of developing the MTEF which will also contribute to more
effective fiscal management. The Government is attaching a great of importance to the
methodology for costing and allocating expenditures in education and health sectors and
implementing reforms to improve its expenditure management in these areas. The set of
reformns in this area are as follows.
33.   Treasury System and Public Finance Legal Framework. Until recently, Tajikistan
did not have a national Treasury. hI early March 2001, Parliament approved the Law on
Treasury and a treasury system was introduced throughout the country. While work on
making the system fully operational across the country is still underway, the Government
is introducing measures to set-up the basic mechanisms of efficient expenditure
management. As part of this process, Government will consolidate the bank accounts of
ministries and transfer the funds to the treasury single account by the end of the current
year.
34.  In order to modernize budgetary concepts and processes and to establish the legal
basis of sound fiscal management, a law on Budget systems, ( called Law on Public
Finances) has been drafted and it is expected that this law will be submitted to the
Parliament in June 2001 and enacted during the first quarter of 2002. The law aims for
introducing modern budget preparation concepts and processes and requires the adoption
of a MTEF. The enactment of this law will lead to major changes in the way the budget
is prepared and executed aimed at increasing the efficiency of public expenditures and
public service delivery. The Law defines the roles and responsibilities of the key
agencies involved in the budget preparation process at the local and national levels. The
Law requires that sectoral ministries prepare their budgets on the basis of priorities and
instructs the Ministry of Finance to publish quarterly reports no later than two months
after the end of the quarter. The Law on Public Finances also specifies the process for
the budget audit and for the final approval of the execution of the State budget.



12
35.   Medium Term Expenditure Framework. The Government has been working on
the development of a MTEF since the beginning of the PRSP process with the support of
IBTA2. The PIP has been issued in February 2001 and it will be fully integrated into the
2002 budget and the Medium Term Budget Framework already developed jointly with
the IMF. The Ministry of Finance has developed a MTEF directive and sent it to all
ministries so that they start work to prepare their budgets in line with the requirements of
the new processes and in a medium term framework. In addition, detailed budget manuals
have been prepared and these will be introduced to the budget staff of each ministry in
training programs planned by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministries of Agriculture,
Education, and Health, and Telecommunications will lead the way and prepare their 2002
budgets on the basis of the MTEF. Starting in 2003 all ministerial budgets will switch to
the new methodology. This activity will be supported by consultants financed under
IBTA2. The Government realizes that the MTEF is a vehicle for prioritization of
programs that are being developed under the PRSP process and the Ministry of Finance
will publish a full budget framework paper prior to submitting the budget to the
Parliament identifying and explaining priorities. In order to increase transparency in the
public sector, the Government has started to issue quarterly budget execution reports to
the public and has made the PIP publicly available.
36.   Activity/Population Based Costing and Expenditure Tracking in Education and
Health. The basis for costing and allocation of expenditures continues to be norm-based,
e.g. based on the number of beds, rather than the need for services from a particular
hospital, inherited from the old system which is supply driven. This system is not
appropriate under current conditions. The Government has developed a pilot program to
be implemented by the Ministries of Education and Health and these have already begun
to switch to activity/population-based costing. These two ministries will prepare their
2002 budgets on the basis of these new processes. Detailed instructions have been sent to
both the Education and Health ministries and the Ministry of Finance will be providing
training to the staffs of these two ministries in order to ensure that the new processes are
well understood and implemented properly. Necessary forms and other documentation
have been prepared by the Ministry of Finance with the support of IBTA2. The
Government is also implementing an expenditure tracking survey in the health and
education sectors. This is because there is some evidence that not all allocated funds are
reaching to the intended facilities. These pilots will be completed during the first quarter
of 2002. The pilot results will be used to design policies to ensure that public funds are
used as planned and intended.
Financial Sector Development
37.  Tajikistan's financial sector is dominated by commercial banks and other financial
institutions play a negligible role. While reform efforts in the financial sector has
intensified since 1998, the sector is still weak. A number of factors have hindered
progress towards the creation of a viable banking system. While the NBT stopped
issuing directed credit by mid-2000, the stock of non-performing loans was already too
large and this is crippling the banking sector. Deficiencies in the legal regime, property
rights, and corporate governance could not be addressed on time in part because of lack
of expertise in the country on these matters. Confidence in the banking system is very



13
low and the financial intermediation ratio measured by the M2/GDP ratio, at about 5
percent of GDP, is one of the lowest in the FSU.
38. Early reforms were aimed at developing the legal and regulatory framework and
most of the key legislation to develop the sector has been enacted. More recent policies
have focused on enforcing the rules and regulations and on restructuring the 5 largest
banks with the support of SACI. At the beginning of 1998, there were 27 commercial
banks registered in Tajikistan. Prior to January 1, 1999, minimum capital necessary to
establish a bank was US$300,000. The minimum capital requirement was increased to
US$1 million in 1999 and bankruptcy proceedings for two medium sized banks were
started due to their non-compliance with the regulations. In November 2000 the NBT
withdrew banking licenses for 3 banks and 2 more licenses were withdrawn in March
2001 and this reduced the number of banks in the system to 16 at present. The
restructuring of the largest banks is still underway and the results will be assessed in
September 2001 and the Government will develop a strategy for either privatizing,
merging, or closing these banks and further consolidation in the sector is expected.
39.   The Government's objective in the financial sector is to further develop the legal
and regulatory framework to establish confidence and at the same time accelerate the
restructuring of the banking system, including exit of banks that are not able to meet
prudential requirements. The goal is to deepen the financial sector by putting in place
measures to increase the M2/GDP ratio. Some of the new policy reforms are aimed at
supporting private sector development, such as amendments to the Law on Collateral, has
implications for the financial sector. The Government also attaches a great deal of
importance for enhancing the availability and access to medium-term credit for the
newly-emerging private sector and promoting the establishment of non-bank financial
intermediaries, especially credit unions for small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs)
and for rural credit. The Government is also tackling tax treatment of deposits and bank
assets which hindered the resource mobilization capability of the banking sector. The
acceleration of reforms are expected to improve the resource mobilization and allocation
capacity of the financial system and contribute to the development of the private sector.
40.   Regulatory Framework, Enforcement, and Building Confidence. In order to
improve confidence, the Government is adopting internationally-accepted regulatory
practices. Under the program agreed with the IMF the minimum capital will be raised
from the current US$1 million to US$2 million effective end-2001. Meanwhile, the
Government is committed to withdraw banking licenses of banks that do not comply with
the minimum capital requirements as demonstrated by its withdrawal of 5 banking
licenses since November 2000. These banks will either be and liquidated or merged with
others if this is feasible. The assets of banks to be closed will be transferred to the
Agency of Bank Liquidation and Collection (ALCO) within the NBT which is now
operationally active. Another policy reform will be in the area of enforcing full
compliance with International Accounting Standards (LAS) for classified non-performing
loans so as to get a realistic assessment of the quality of bank portfolios starting June
2001. In order to ensure transparency in the system the Government will also require
each of the four largest banks to publish their audited financial statements by June 2001.



14
41.   Tax Treatment of Deposits. Loan Loss Provisions, and Bank Assets. Despite
improvements, the tax code still has provisions permitting authorities to have access to
bank databases while carrying out corporate tax examinations of banks without a court
order. This is not in line with the objective of increasing the amount of deposits, which is
the main source of funding for bank credit, and this negatively impacts private sector
development. Therefore, the Government has submitted to Parliament amendments to
Article 104, Section J of the Tax Code so it will require a court order for tax authorities to
access customer accounts. Two more tax code provisions require amendments. First, the
tax code does not allow full tax deductibility of loan loss provisions for non-standard
loans. For this reason, the Government developed amendments to the Tax Code for full
tax deductibility and submitted it to Parliament already. Second, until recently, taxes on
banks were assessed on the basis of net assets. An amendment to the Tax Code has been
submitted to the Parliament to change the tax base to bank fixed assets such as land and
buildings.
42.   Non-Bank Intermediaries, Collateral, and Secondary Markets for Securities. In
order to support the establishment of non-bank financial institutions such as credit unions
and rural credit organizations, the NBT has prepared amendments and additions to the
basic regulations and legislation on financial institutions which have been submitted to
the Governrment already and these will be enacted by the Parliament during the first
quarter of 2002. The Government is also taking steps to reduce transactions cost of
lending and borrowing by reducing the excessive 20 percent fee on transfer of ownership
of collateral in the event of a default. The fee is also different for various categories of
collateral and both of these factors were deterring lending by banks. The Government has
submitted amendments to the Parliament reducing the transfer fee to 3 percent of the
value of collateral on average. In order to promote the development of secondary
markets for financial instruments and for more efficient operation of financial
institutions, the NBT has developed a legal framework for repo and reverse-repo
transactions and access to Lombard facility. The new framework also allows up to 25
percent of required reserves to be kept with the NBT in T-bills. These measures will not
only improve the working of the markets but will also enable NBT to be a more effective
manager of money markets and improve its capacity for monetary policy making.
Private Sector Development and Governance
43. As part of its adjustment program the Government is deepening policy reforms in
order to support the emerging private sector. The share of private sector has been
increasing and reached more than 40 percent of GDP at the end of 2000, although this is
still one of the lowest in FSU. The Government aims for creating an even playing field
for both the public and private sectors and encourage new business formation. Until
recently, large public enterprises used barter and offsets as payment mechanisms and this
negatively impacted private sector development.  In addition, some of the largest
enterprises and some public agencies have not been current with their utility bills and this
undermined the emergence of a proper incentive structure. The Government is now
taking steps to deal with this situation.



15
44.  Realizing the importance of competition for private sector development, the
Government created a new independent agency in early 2001, the Anti-Monopoly and
Entrepreneurship Support Agency, in place of the Anti-Monopoly, Regulatory, and
Finance/Credit Department, a 12-person unit within the Ministry of Economy which was
too weak to serve as a true competition watchdog in Tajikistan. The new agency is still
in the process of organizing its activities and is expected to have regional field offices
soon and extend its coverage to the entire country.  The new  agency has the
responsibility to oversee issues in the Republic concerning: (i) competition policy:
restrictive business practices, anti-competitive pricing and related conduct, mergers and
acquisitions, etc.; and (ii) regulation of prices charged and services provided by
infrastructure and natural monopolies: electricity and district heat; procurement, transport
and distribution of natural gas and LPG; rail and air transport; and telecom and postal
services.
45.   The Government's strategy for poverty reduction critically rests on developing a
private sector that is capable of driving economic growth. The authorities realize that
private sector development is very much related to the effectiveness of reforms in other
sectors, such as governance in general, financial sector reforms, and private sector
development reforms need to be seen in that context. The goal is to support the private
sector and encourage new business formation by developing a business friendly
environment. In order to achieve these objectives the Government will be implementing
the following policy reforms under SAC2.
46.   Financial Transparency, Hard Budget Constraints, and Audits of Large
Enterprises.  In order to strengthen financial transparency, tax offsets and barter
transactions between public enterprises have now been eliminated and the Government is
taking steps that will not allow the accumulation of new arrears. The Government,
through its main shareholder position in Bark-i Tajik, Tajiktelekom, and Tajik Gas will
require, (i) that the accounts payable and receivables of these enterprises are to be kept
current to 90 days sales equivalent and settled through cash mechanisms; (ii) that these
four companies establish a track record to demonstrate that they are current on a
sustained basis starting in March 2002; and (iii) that these companies will issue
instructions to cut-off utility services to the above public enterprises, TADAZ, and
budgetary institutions who are not current on their payments. In order to ensure
compliance with this requirement the Government will allocate in 2002 budget adequate
resources for budgetary institutions to pay for their utility bills. In order to further
support financial transparency, the Government has requested the IAS audits of TADAZ
from 2001, Bark-i Tajik , Tajik Air and Tajiktelekom from 2002, and Tajik Rail, and
Tajik Gas from 2004 using reputable international firms.
47.   Regulatory Framework and Business Development Support. The Government is
also making efforts on the legal front to support the private sector. Current regulations
make it too expensive to approach commercial courts to settle disputes and this hinders
the development of the private sector. The Government has reduced the economic courts
fee from the current 10 percent of the value of a claim to 4 percent on average and will
further reduce it to 2 percent by May 2002. The Government is refocusing its efforts for
developing the appropriate regulatory framework and. to better coordinate and monitor



16
the performance of the private sector continuously. The creation of the Anti-Monopoly
and Entrepreneurship Support Agency in February 2001 was the first step in that
direction. The Agency will lead the work on a national strategy for small and medium
enterprise development which will be submitted to the Government by end December 31,
2001. In addition to its policy role, the Anti Monopoly and Entrepreneurship Support
Agency will be providing support and training to the private sector. The Agency has
already arranged Private Sector/Government Partnership forum in Dushanbe in April
2001 and is committed to extend these to local government level during 2002. These
forums will provide feedback to the Government so that emerging constraints for private
sector development could be dealt with as soon as possible.
48.  Private Sector Development in Agriculture: Land Registration Costs and Systems,
and Taxation. Several factors constraint the growth of the private sector in agriculture
with adverse consequences on for poverty reduction. The first is related to the costs of
acquiring and registering land which are high relative to the incomes of farmers. The
Government has issued decrees and reduced the registration period and registration fee
for (dekhan) farms from US$36 to US$18. The Government is also eliminating the need
for dekhan farms to be registered as corporate entities by June 2001. Work is also
underway for installing a fully functional computerized system for speedy public access
to land use right records and maintenance of the integrity of the records in the State Land
Committee (SLC) both at rayon and state level. Once the computerized system is in
place by January 2002, the Governmen-t will further reduce the fee for registration of land
use right certificates to US$6. The taxation of the agricultural sector also needs to be
simplified. At present, there are more than 10 different types of taxes imposed on the
agricultural sector depending upon the nature of activity. The Government is starting a
pilot project in four regions (rayons) which will involve switching to a single tax regime
instead of ten different taxes. Amendments to the tax code to that affect has already been
submitted to the Parliament. If successfully implemented, this policy will be extended
nationwide.
49.   Privatization of Large State and Collective Farms. Almost 70 percent of all poor
live in rural areas and are mostly engaged in agricultural activities. Hence, privatization
of large state and collective farms (SCFs) is the key policy instrument to reduce poverty
in the country. The Government has privatized about 30 percent of the SCF lands (in 185
of the 596 SCFs). As a result of reforms, a number of different forms of farm structures
have come into existence in the recent years - such as Joint stock companies, Leasehold
Associations, Dehkan Associations. While these are positive developments and the
Government is committed to move ahead with privatization of public farms, the
procedures for equitable and transparent privatization process were not always followed
which negatively impacted poverty reduction efforts of the Government. In part, this has
been due to the growing workload of the SLC which had limited capacity to implement
reformns. In order to deal with this problem, the Government issued a decree in January
2001 and upgraded the status of the SLC to the equivalent of a ministry. Furthermore,
the Government has taken steps and increased the budget of the SLC by 10 percent for
the last six months of 2001 to ensure that it has the resources to be able to fulfill its duties
satisfactorily. The SLC will follow the steps in the conversion of the large State managed



17
Kolkhoze /Sovkhoze farms into independent units of privately managed (Dehkhan) farms
as summarized in Box I
to ensure transparency of
the process.                                          BOX|: Ten Stevs in the Pzsaatie  fSF
5  One.    Formation of local commission with represntaiv  of farm employees vilae   l
50.       The  Governnent                     admiistration, and farm eommuny  oups to decide the fm reorgan 1at;
has  taken  the  first step                   Calling of the General Body meeting of the farm and announig the lntnson   l
to prlvtize and decide by majority (not less than 70%) of arm workers vote to
and  identified  120  SCFs                    private the farm and draw the procecdingsand mmbers present sig;l
for               systematic         Two:      Send die resolution to Rayon administration through the Jomat and get the
approval of Hnkuiat to privatize the ftrm
pnvatization.             The        Thra c   Demarcation of land witn each farm for alocaton to individal or group of
Hukumat  administrations                      indiduai for private ua and demarcate limited ares that wI reain under
bdietdtho I   state and nulcdpai ownership und  land fund;,
would be dDrected to hold            Four.    Ietermintlon of list of individua who vod ave rlghtstoAdtvateprlva   l
General Body meetings in                      land - qualifying criteria outlined in draft band reform  law  and qalfying
individuas for each farm  determined by the loawl agricultural reform
the 60  SCFs and  should                      commssion set up by the Rayon administration based n length of hi sece In
provide   by   November                       the farms
Five:    Deterninaton of individuNalmnily land share and non-land srs- basd on
2001        the       official                farm sle, land lassification, and number of ddzens witin the arm poeIng
permnission   to  distribute                    l  rights, deermined by the lal commisson aist  by the ste band
committee with the maps;
the  lands to  workers  as           six:     Distribution and allocation of lnd shares -bad  on ordr, si  and parcel
private    individual    or                   locaton determined by a lottery supervised by the Rayon and local agiulural
refon commissions (ARC);
groups        of      pnvate                  Physical demarcation of allcated parcels using sae and boundry surveys In
individuals.  will  enable                    presence of publk - followed by permanent boundary marldup to Indlidal
the SLC ocmpleeland pareds by the SLC;
the SLC  to complete the             Eight:   Prearation of land certificates (acts) and odtr required doumention frI
process  for  issuing  the                    AC approval and Rayon adInIstrtion; complete the proes ofany appl of
land aocation or other dedsions of local ARC, Rayon or federal authoIties it
land use nrght certificates                   found neesary;
in these 40 SCFs by May              Nine.    Final approval of land allocation with supprting documents and certfictes
by the State land committee: and
2002.  At the same time                en:    Issuance of certifled and registered copies of land use right cetfkcate to
the    Governmnent,   will                    private individuals to whom the land use rights have been allotted and provide
undertake   a  nationwide                     access to public Land Use Right Records at the Rayon level.
farm            privatization
campaign by publishing
and disseminating through mass media detailed regulations and step by step procedures
for the privatization of SCFs.
Privatization and Enterprise Reforms
51. The privatization program has been underway since 1991 and has picked-up pace
during 1999 and 2000. Tajikistan's law on privatization divides state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) into three groups: (i) those approved for privatization; (ii) those approved for
privatization by special decision of the Government (primarily infrastructure, hospitals,
clinics, pharmacies, schools and other public services); and (iii) those not approved for
privatization (primarily defense establishments). SOEs are further classified by size: (i)
enterprises with 1-99 working spaces are considered small-scale; (ii) enterprises with
100-199 working spaces are classified as medium-scale; and (iii) enterprises with 200 or
more  working  spaces are  considered  large-scale.   Small-scale  enterprises  are  sold
through auction, and medium and large scale enterprises can be sold through auction or
tender. Privatization of small-scale enterprises accelerated sharply under SAC1. In the
seven years prior to SAC1 (1991-98), 2413 of the 6426 small-scale enterprises proposed



18
for privatization were privatized. By mid-2001, 5817 small-scale enterprises were
privatized. Privatization of medium- and large-scale SOEs began in earnest during 1999;
most of 1998 was devoted to the incorporation process. Between 1992-2000, a total of
166 medium/large enterprises were privatized (12 during 1991-97, 20 in 1998, and
another 134 during 1999). During 2000 and early 2001 about 150 more medium and
large enterprises were privatized bringing the total number of medium and large
enterprises to 326 with full payments received for 280 enterprises by mid-2001.
Table 1: Status of Privatization as of March 31, 2001
(1)
Approved    Total    Number       % of
Classification  for                Privatized   Column (1)
Privatization                    Privatized
Small        6426       8555      5817        91%
Medium/Large     949       1713      326/280     34%
TOTAL         7375      10268      6143        83%
52.   Privatization Program  and Privatization Strategy for Large Enterprises.  The
universe of enterprises also includes about 100 enterprises to be privatized on a case-by-
case basis. Due to lack of expertise the Government has not been able to develop a plan
to privatize these enterprises. The Government is now committed to adopt a three-year
strategic privatization plan with the help of international consultants as these transactions
will require the application of appropriate valuation techniques. The three year plan will
also cover Tajikistan large and strategic enterprises. The Government's main strategy is
to attract strategic investors and engage the private sector in this way and then privatize
these enterprises in a medium-term context.
53.   With respect to TADAZ, By May 2002, the Government will issue a resolution
adopting a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to achieve economic viability of
TADAZ on a sustainable basis. The action plan will include measures for financial
restructuring and re-capitalization, technical rehabilitation and operational restructuring
based on the TADAZ study conducted with the support of the IFC and the outcome of the
audit for 2000. Furthermore, it will include concrete measures for making available
technical, market and managerial know-how through a contract with an internationally
reputable firm, which would be hired according to World Bank competitive bidding
procedures. An international consulting firmn will assist with the formulation of the action
plan.
54.   Apart from  the enterprises to be privatized on a case-by-case basis, the
Government's privatization program for medium and large enterprises to be sold by the
auction method aimed for having about 280 sale contracts with full payment by mid-
2001. This is achieved. The Government is now targeting to have 380 sales contract
with full payments by mid-May 2002. In order to attain this target the Government is
dealing with technical valuation problems; in some cases initial asking prices were too



19
high for the market and this slowed down the privatization process. Therefore, the
Government is adopting a rule that for those enterprises that have not been sold on two
consecutive English auctions, the decision to put them on Dutch auction will be taken in
4 weeks.
55.   Corporate Governance and Disclosure for Public Enterprises. The management
and oversight of public enterprises needs significant strengthening. The performance of
state enterprises under line ministries is not monitored effectively and their performance
is not followed on a regular basis. In order to address this issue the Government has
created a group within the Ministry of economy and Trade to monitor state enterprises
and maintain a database on their financial condition and employment on a quarterly
basis. The SPC is participating in this group and will continue to exercise the role of the
owner on behalf of the State. In addition, the Government will incorporate all medium
and large enterprises subject to privatization (more than 70 at present) by the end of
December 2001.
Infrastructure Reforms: Telecommunication and Transport Sectors
56.   The Government realizes that increased competition and private sector
involvement in the transport and telecommunications sectors is necessary for supporting
growth and reducing poverty. A functional system of transport is also required to reap
the benefits of regional trade, which can be expected to rise with greater political stability
in Tajikistan.  Developing the telecommunications sector and diversifying service
provision would enable businesses and individuals to transmit information more
effectively, which is indispensable for the expansion of markets and increased economic
efficiency. This is also a prerequisite for Tajikistan to be part of the globalization process
and improve its access to world markets. The Government is opening up and reforming
both of these sectors by adopting the following policy reforms.
57.   Telecommunications. While there have been reforms in the past and postal,
telephone, and broadcasting businesses of the old complex were split, there is no real
separation of the commercial, policy and regulatory functions of the Tajiktelekom and the
sector is dominated by State ownership. The physical infrastructure of Tajiktelekom is in
poor condition and the sector suffers from a lack of investment. The Government is well
aware that the first step is to develop a transparent legal and regulatory framework
opening up all market segments to effective competition and private investment. The
Ministry of Telecommunications is preparing a new law which would allow the
emergence of a true multi-operator structure for both service and infrastructure providers.
Policymaking, regulation, and operations in the sector will be split by establishing an
institutionally independent regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector. The
legal and regulatory framework will also aim for close harmonization with emerging
global trends, especially those pertaining to telecommunications in the Fourth Protocol of
the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) under the aegis of the WTO. The
Government is receiving technical assistance from the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD) in the development of the new law and the regulatory
framework, which is also providing assistance with the development of a privatization



20
plan. The new law will be submitted to Parliament before end 2001 and will be enacted
by May 2002. The independent regulator will also be established by May 2002.
58.   Transport Sector. The Government has recently intensified its efforts to reform
the transport sector. During the last quarter of 2000, a new Transport Law has been
enacted.  Following the enactment of the new  Transport Law, the Government
established the new Ministry of Transport and grouped road, rail, and air under one
ministry as part of the ongoing public administration reforms supported by the World
Bank's IBTA2. In line with the new Law, the Government is now taking the first steps to
restructure Tajik Air. In order to separate commercial and regulatory functions of Tajik
Air, a Civil Aviation Department within the Ministry of Transport has been created and
this department is responsible for the development of the regulatory framework and its
enforcement by end 2001. Operationally, the Government is adopting a phased in
strategy to split the business organization of Tajik Air into three different business units:
(i) air flights; (ii) airports; and (iii) ground services and technical facilities, including
flight controllers with the support of EBRD. In the first phase operating revenues and
costs of each business unit would be determined and this information would then serve as
the basis of splitting Tajik Air into the three separate companies and for future
privatization plans.
59.   The Government has been working with ADB in the restructuring of Tajik Rail
and has taken the initial steps in that direction. A Rail Transport Department has been
established within the Ministry of Transport and this department is developing the
regulatory framework. The restructuring of Tajik Rail will begin in 2002 and three
separate business units based on Tajik Railways will be established for (i) rolling stock
operation and maintenance; (ii) railway stations, terminals and freight terminals; and (iii)
railways and related structures (communications and other facilities and their
maintenance) after the development of the legal and regulatory framework for the above
business) by May 2002.
PART III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
III. 1 LINKS TO CAS AND OTHER BANK OPERATIONS
60.   The proposed loan provides continued support from the Bank for sustaining the
relatively high economic growth rates Tajikistan attained in the past two years in order to
reduce the widespread poverty is in line with the CAS issued on June 25, 1998 and the I-
PRSP endorsed by IDA on October 31, 2001. The goal would be to consolidate
macroeconomic stabilization and move ahead with the second generation of structural
reforms to support growth and achieve the objectives of the Government's I-PRSP. In
this connection, the overarching objective of the Government is the development of
market institutions and to adopt modern laws, regulations and processes to improve
governance. Long-term sustainable growth rests on a growing role for the private sector
and redefinition of the role of the state in the economy. To this end, the Government's
strategy calls for improving transparency and accountability in the management of the
public sector, and public administration and fiscal and budgetary reforms.



21
61.  Investment and new business formation, which is needed to sustain growth in the
longer terrn, will not take place if the appropriate policy framework and the provision of
law and order and essential public goods are not provided adequately. A functioning
financial system to support growth is also important for and the system as it stands now is
in need of accelerated restructuring so that it can effectively mobilize and allocate
resources. Significant progress is also needed in regard to the privatization of medium
and large enterprises, as well as the large state farms. Furthermore, sustaining growth
now requires major reform in the transport and telecommunications sectors to attract
private investment and to reach new markets.
62.   The reform package associated with the proposed credit is broad and encompasses
exactly this strategy - a set of policies, laws, and regulations to improve governance in
both the private and public sectors, including budget planning and a more transparent
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), a regulatory and legal framework to lay
the foundations of an enabling business environment, deepening of financial sector
reforms and building up the capacity of the central bank to supervise and develop the
financial sector in more effective ways, a new approach to privatization with a strategic
focus on the larger enterprises and improved corporate governance for public enterprises,
and major reforms in the transport and telecommunications sectors. The Government
realizes that simultaneous policy reforms in all these areas are now required since the
effectiveness of reform in one sector often depends on the success of reform in other
sectors of the economy.
63. The reform program supported by SAC2 is also consistent with prior and current
IDA involvement in the country. In addition to initiating new reforms in public sector
management area, SAC2 deepens the reform agenda supported by First Structural
Adjustment Credit (US$50 million, approved July 1998, fully disbursed and closed in
December 2000) and First Structural Adjustment Supplemental (US$6.7 million,
approved May 1999, fully disbursed and closed in December 2000). The proposed credit
also supports the Farm Privatization Support (US$20 million, approved June 1999);
Education LIL (US$5 million, approved May 1999) and draws upon the Second
Institution Building Technical Assistance (US$6.7 million, approved June 1999). Some
of the components of the proposed credit will be supported by a capacity building project
(Financial Institution and Enterprise Support) which is under preparation.
111.3 OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
64.  Credit Objectives. The proposed credit will support the implementation of the
first stages of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which was
endorsed by the Board of the World Bank on October 31, 2000. The proposed credit
will provide foreign exchange that will help maintain essential imports, boost
international reserves, and provide non-inflationary financing for the budget. An
important objective of the proposed credit is to support policy reforms that will improve
governance in general. Reforms in this area aim to improve public sector management,
service delivery, and budget and expenditure planning. The Government's cross cutting
reform program to support private sector development includes policy actions in the



22
financial sector, privatization and enterprise reforms, and major reforms in the
infrastructure sectors.
65.  Design of the Loan. The proposed loan is designed as a two-tranche operation to
support policy reforms in a number of areas. It responds to a Government request for
support of the implementation of the first stages of the I-PRSP. It would broaden and
deepen the support provided under SAC 1, recognizing the successful policy
performnance under that loan and the poverty reduction strategy described above that has
already been initiated. The proposed SAC2 and the ongoing PRGF of the IMF are
complementary. Reforms in support of the development of market institutions and
redefinition of the role of the State, measures to strengthen governance through
improved transparency and modern processes in fiscal management, financial sector
reforms, privatization and private sector development, and infrastructure reforms
supported by the Bank, will complement macroeconomic stability established in the
context of the PRGF program.
66.  The proposed credit has six main components:
Public Sector Management, including elimination of directed credit and quasi-fiscal
operations of the NBT, establishment of a Financial Control Office for budget audit,
public administration reforms that redefine the role of the State in market economy
context and reorganizing key ministries accordingly, and customs administration
reforms;
Budget Planning and Execution, including the establishment of a national Treasury,
adoption of new Law on Public Finances introducing modern budgetary procedures and
improved fiscal management, development of a MTEF; including Public Investment
Program and switching from norm-based costing and allocation of expenditures to
activity/population based in education and health sectors;
Financial Sector Reforms, including the acceleration of financial sector restructuring
and closure of weak banks, new regulatory framework for the establishment of non-
bank intermediaries; significant changes in the tax code making tax authorities access to
bank accounts conditional on a court authorization;
Private Sector Development, including new measures for financial transparency and
hard budget constraints, establishment of a new Agency to support the private sector
and improvements in the regulatory framework, and reduction of taxes on the
agricultural sector;
Privatization and Enterprise Reforms and Farm Privatization, including acceleration
of privatization of medium and large enterprises, development of a plan to engage the
private sector in Tajikistan's strategic enterprises and adoption of a strategy to privatize
these enterprises in a medium term context, improvements to the corporate governance
framework public enterprises; upgrading of the status of the Land Reform Committee to
the equivalent of a ministry and acceleration of farm privatization and enforcement of
procedures to ensure the transparency and equitable privatization of farm land;



23
Infrastructure Reforms, including separation of regulatory and commercial functions
of the Tajiktelekom, development of a modem telecommunications law that would
allow the emergence of a multi-operator industry structure and the development of a
privatization plan for Tajiktelekom; taking the first steps for splitting of Tajik Air's
organizational structure into three different business units in order to prepare it for
privatization; and splitting of Tajik Rail into three different and separate business units
in order to improve its efficiency.
67. Poverty Impact. The proposed credit is expected to have significant impact on
poverty by allowing the Government to maintain priority social expenditures identified
in the I-PRSP while putting in place mechanisms to reduce the volatility of such
expenditures through budgetary reforms in the context of the MTEF. In this connection,
starting the process of switching to activity/population based costing and allocating of
expenditures in health and education would be particularly beneficial for the poor. The
proposed credit is expected to have a major impact on rural poverty, where 70 percent
of all poor live, by supporting the implementation of land reforms in a transparent and
equitable manner. The credit would also support structural reforms that will materially
improve the investment climate and help maintain high economic growth rates
Tajikistan attained over the past two years, which is the main mechanism to reduce
poverty on a sustained basis.
111. 4 TRANCHE CONDITIONALITIES
68. A number of key specific conditions have been completed prior to Board
presentation before June 1, 2001, as follows:
(i) Quasi-fiscal operations and directed credit of NBT have been eliminated.
(ii) The Financial Control Office as the supreme agency to audit the budget
has been created by a decree and interim charter issued.
(iii) Support to private sector development were combined into a ministerial
level Committee and black book mechanism was introduced to help minimize
unreasonable interference by various government agencies in the short run.
(iv) Ministry of Transport have been restructured as part of the ongoing
public administration reforms and a new Ministry of Energy has been
created. The first phase of the restructuring of Ministries of Agriculture,
Education, Health, and Telecommunications has started.
(v) A national treasury has been created by adopting a Treasury Law and
coverage extended to all central and local government transactions.
(vi) A Budget Systems Law (Law on Public Finance) has been submitted to
the Parliament that include the adoption of medium-term expenditure
framework.



24
(vii) Tax offsets, directed credit, and barter transactions between public
enterprises have been eliminated.
(viii) A medium-term Public Investment Program has been prepared and
published.
(ix)  Banking licenses of 5 banks that did not comply with capital
requirements as of December 2000 has have been withdrawn.
(x) Amendments to the Tax Code has been submitted to the Parliament to
preclude tax authorities from access and arbitrary freezing of deposit without
a court order.
(xi) The registration fees and period for privatized farms have been reduced
from US$38 to US$18 and the need to register Dekhan farms as corporate
entities have been eliminated.
(xii) Amendments to the Tax Code has been submitted to the Parliament
permitting the initiation of a pilot project in 4 rayons replacing over 10
different tax rates by a single tax rate.
(xiii) The Government took measures to improve the governance of public
enterprises by creating a group in the Ministry of Economy and Trade and
required all public enterprises to submit their financial statements to the SPC,
and IAS audit of TADAZ, Bark-i Tajik, Tajik Air, Tajiktelekom, Tajik Rail,
and Tajik Gas has been requested by the Government, and the Government
completed the draft Technical Assessment, Power Sector Report, and Long
Term Restructuring Options Report jointly with IFC.
(xiv) The rule that for those enterprises that have not been sold on two
consecutive English auctions, the decision to put them on Dutch auctions has
already been adopted.
(xv) The status of the Land Reform Committee has been upgraded to the
equivalent of a ministry and the pace of farm privatization accelerated and
procedures to ensure the transparency and equitable privatization of farm
land have been strengthened and enforced.
(xvi) Legal arrangements for the separation of commercial and regulatory
functions of Tajik Air and Tajik Rail in line with the new Transport Law
have been put in place. A Civil Aviation Department and a Rail Transport
Department within the Ministry of Transport have been established.
69.  Second Tranche Release Conditions. The second tranche of the proposed SAC2
will be released upon completion of the following conditions:
(i) The Government will enact the Law on the Supreme Audit Office.



25
(ii) The Customs Committee will develop and begin implementing a reform
program including (a) the revision of Customs Code in line with international
standards; (b) revision of customs procedures and regulations to increase
transparency of customs transactions; (c) strengthen the internal audit
function of customs administration; and (d) implement the first phase of
customs administration modernization.
(iii) The Law on Public Finance will be enacted.
(iv) The Government will (a) by December 31, 2001, prepare the budgets of
Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, and Telecommunications for
FY2002 based on the MTEF planning directives and process manuals; (b)
integrate the PIP into the MTBF and the budget for FY2002 and allocated all
counterpart funds in the budget; and (c) commence preparation of the budget
for FY2003 based on the MTEF planning directives and process manuals,
integrating the PIP.
(v) The Government: (a) has transferred all the assets, from banks to be
closed due to noncompliance with the minimum capital requirements as set
out in the banking legislation, to ALCO; and (b) commenced liquidation of
those closed banks.
(vi) The Government will amend its Tax Code so as to: (a) allow for full tax
deductibility of loan loss provisions; (b) tax banks solely on their fixed
assets; and (c) preclude the tax authorities from arbitrary freezing of deposits
and imposing fees and penalties on client accounts without court orders.
(vii) The Government will amend its Law on Collateral in accordance with a
methodology agreed with the Association so as to: (a) reduce the fee for
transferring the ownership of the collateral upon borrowers' default; and (b)
unify the amount of fee for all types of collateral.
(viii) The Government will ensure that: (a) the accounts payable and
receivables of Bark-i Tajik, Tajiktelekom and Tajik Gas will be kept current
within the 90 days sales equivalent and settled through cash mechanisms; (b)
utility services to the public, public enterprises, including TADAZ and
budgetary institutions, who are not current on their payments, are cut off; and
(c) adequate resources for the budgetary institutions to pay for their utility
bills has been allocated for its FY 2002 budget.
(ix) The Government installed functional computerized system for speedy
public access to, and maintenance of the land use right records in its State
Land Committee both at rayon and state level; and (b) reduced fees for
registration of land use right certificate to the equivalent of $6.



26
(x) The Government has adopted a strategic plan for case-by-case
Privatization of Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises over a three year
period.
(xi) The Government has (a) appointed an acceptable audit finn for the
purpose of IAS audit of TADAZ; (b) completed the IAS audit of TADAZ;
and (c) the Government will issue a resolution adopting a time-bound action
plan, satisfactory to IDA, to achieve economic viability of TADAZ on a
sustainable basis. An international consulting firm will assist with the
formulation of the action plan. The action plan will include measures for
financial restructuring and re-capitalization, technical rehabilitation and
operational restructuring based on the TADAZ study conducted with the
support of the IFC and the outcome of the audit for 2000. Furthermore, it
will include concrete measures for making available technical, market and
managerial know-how through a contract with an internationally reputable
firm, which would be hired according to World Bank competitive bidding
procedures.
(xii) The Government will privatize 100 Medium- and Large- Scale
Enterprises in addition to 280 Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises already
privatized.
(xiii) With respect to farm privatization, the Government will ensure that (a)
the rayon-level administrations has held general body meetings in not less
than 60 state and collective farms (SCFs) to resolve the distribution of the
SCF's land to private individuals or group of individuals; and (b) the State
Land Committee has issued the land use rights certificates to private
individuals or groups of individuals in not less than 40 SCFs of the 60 SCFs
mentioned above.
(xiv) The Law on Telecommunication has been enacted.
(xv) The Borrower has consolidated the various bank accounts of Borrower's
ministries under the Treasury Account.
111. 5 FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
70. The proposed credit of SDR 39.4 million (US$50 million equivalent) would be
made available to the Republic of Tajikistan. The SPC, NBT, and MoF have been given
primary responsibility for implementing the proposed SAC with overall guidance and
coordination to be provided by the Office of the Prime Minister. The State Advisor on
Economic Matters is the Bank's counterpart on the proposed credit and will oversee,
coordinate and monitor implementation of the policy reform program. Disbursement
would be made in two tranches each SDR 19.7 million (US$25 million equivalent).
The first tranche would be available upon effectiveness. The second tranche would be
available by June 2002 following the fulfillment of second tranche conditions set out in



27
paragraph 69. The Borrower will open an account at the NBT against submission by
the Borrower of a simplified withdrawal application. The first tranche will be disbursed
immediately upon loan effectiveness, the second upon completion of the respective
tranche conditions outlined above.
71. Disbursements under the proposed credit will be made to an account (Deposit
Accounts) of the Ministry of Finance established at the National bank of Tajikistan of
the Republic of Tajikistan. The credit will be disbursed according to the simplified
disbursements procedures for adjustment operations. Hence, disbursements will not be
linked to specific purchases and there will be no procurement requirements. If the credit
proceeds are used for ineligible purchases IDA will require the Borrower to either (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount
directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of
credit. IDA will require an audit of the deposit account. The audit reports would be
submitted to IDA no more than six months after the date of IDA's request. The
expected date of the proposed credit is December 31, 2002.
111. 6 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
72. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on environmental
Assessment (OD. 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been rated in category
"C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
III. 7 RISKS
73.  The proposed credit has four potential risks. The first is political originating from
deterioration of the regional security situation and possible domestic political
disagreements which could delay or stall the reform process. While the signing of the
peace arrangement in 1997 and holding of general elections in late 1999 and early 2000
resulted in a new parliament which established a proper forum for power sharing
arrangements, reduced this risk significantly, it is conceivable that regional or domestic
political problems could arise and slow the reform process. The second risk is the
Government's implementation capacity. As the experience with SAC1 suggests, the
Government's understanding of the need for implementing reforms on a sustained basis
may not always be guaranteed. Periods of relatively rapid progress have been followed
by significant slowdown of reforms and in some cases the urgency of some measures
was questioned by the Government. This possibility exists and its minimization would
require the maintenance of a strong policy dialogue with the Government. The
implementation process with IBTA2 has shown that the importance of timely technical
assistance may not always be realized by the implementing agencies which requires
close supervision of the implementation of the credit.
74   The third risk is related to the restructuring of external debt with major creditors
with implications for fiscal and external sector sustainability. While Tajikistan has been
discussing this issue with its key creditors for some time now, it is still not clear how



28
much of the debt would be restructured and this is a source of concern. The fourth risk
is related to intemational reserves position. The level of reserves are already low and
further deterioration could negatively impact foreign exchange management. In this
context, the assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework with the ongoing
implementation IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility is particularly important.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
75. I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Association's Articles of
Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, DC
May 29, 2001



ANNEX I
CAPBA3HPH                    M1 P E M b E P-M H H H C T P
t(YMXYPHH TO'ti1KHCTOH                        PECnYBJIIKH TAIUKIIHCTAH
Ni ______                                29  l' May,  2001
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N. W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
Tajikistan's Reform Program for Accelerating Growth and Reducing Poverty
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1. The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan wishes to reiterate its
commitment to continue the implementation of its economic reform program aimed
at reducing widespread poverty in the country and accelerating economic growth.
The economic program implements the first stages of the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which was endorsed by the Board of the
World Bank on October 31, 2000. We are in the process of developing a full-
fledged PRSP and we expect to complete this strategy by September 2001 with
broad participation from stakeholders, Parliament, and civil society. Meanwhile,
we are implementing reforms as outlined in the l-PRSP and we would like to
confirm our intention to seek financial assistance from IDA under the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2), a two-tranche operation of US$50
million equivalent.  The reforms to be supported through this loan would
significantly improve govemance and public sector management, contribute to the
development of an enabling investment environment for private sector growth and
enhance government's privatization efforts, deepen banking reforms, and
accelerate infrastructure sector reforms. I am also pleased to inform you that our
reform program complements the macroeconomic framework which is being
supported by a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) approved on October 25, 2000. This letter consists of three
parts: an overview of the policy environment, our most recent economic
performance and the macroeconomic framework, and an update of the
Government's reform strategy.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 27
OVERVIEW
2. Almost two and a half years ago, we submitted to you a letter of Development
Policy in support of the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC1) which outlined an
ambitious reform program. I am pleased to confirm here that we have successfully
achieved almost all of our targets and are determined to move ahead with a new
round of reforms that are considerably wider in scope than those covered under
SAC1. As you know, the SAC1 implementation period was from June 1998-
October 2000. Coming out of the civil conflict at the end of 1997, the policy
environment for SAC1 had been rather difficult and coupled with the need to build
institutional capacity, we had some unanticipated delays in program
implementation. As a result, we requested extension of SACI, and we very much
appreciate the Board's support in that regard. I am pleased to confirm that, with
your support, we have carried out the reform measures successfully.
3. The policy environment is now much different and conducive to the deepening
of reforms. The signing of the peace agreement between the Government and the
United Tajik Opposition in mid-1997 established a basis for normalization of
political and economic reform process.  In 1999, there were further political
improvements. The opposition has become an integral part of the Govemment and
took up some ministerial posts in the cabinet. Through a constitutional referendum
in September 1999, the formation of political parties was allowed and the
President's term in office was extended from 5 to 7 years. Parliamentary elections
took place in late 1999 and early 2000. These developments form the basis of our
program and it is in this context that we developed the l-PRSP and are working on
the full-fledged  PRSP.   Our most recent economic performance  and
macroeconomic framework together with emerging issues and our policy proposals
to move rapidly forward are presented below.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Economic Growth.
4. Output growth has steadily improved following the 1997 peace accord. After
persistently declining economic conditions since 1990, GDP growth turned positive
in 1997 with an annual increase of 1.7 percent GDP. Buoyed by reforms, economic
growth accelerated further in 1998 until the Russian crisis caused a sharp
slowdown to the economy in the last quarter of 1998. However, despite this
slowdown GDP grew by a strong 5.3 percent in 1998. The effects of the Russian
crisis had the effect of constraining economic growth to 3.7 percent in 1999 against
our expectations of at least 5 percent growth in that year. Despite a drought that
affected the agricultural sector, GDP growth was rapid in 2000. Output expanded
by about 8.3 percent for the year on the back of a strong supply response to
favorable prices for key aluminum exports. As a result, Govemment reform efforts
implemented with the assistance of intemational financial institutions led to the
expansion of Tajikistan's economy by around 20 percent since mid-1997 on a
cumulative basis. This is an indication that the Tajik economy has been responding
to policy measures and would benefit from further structural reforms. With the
2



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 27
policy reforms we propose to undertake in our program, we are expecting GDP
growth of at least 5 percent in the next couple of years.
Widespread poverty.
5. The problem  of poverty for Tajikistan is not new.  Prior to gaining
independence, per capita income in the country was the lowest and the percentage
of population living in poverty was the highest among the BRO countries. In 1997,
the UNDP ranked Tajikistan in the 115th place among 174 countries according to
the Index of Human Factor Development (IHFD).
6. The results of the Living Standards Survey in Tajikistan (LSST) undertaken in
1999 indicate that poverty in Tajikistan is largely a rural phenomenon. 76 percent
of the population lives in rural areas. Only 18.6 percent of the urban population are
very poor, against 23.4 percent of the rural population. Of the total poorest
segments of the population, 18.5 percent live in urban areas, and 81.5 percent in
rural areas.  Of these, 45.7 percent live in Khatlon Oblast, 26.1 percent in
Leninabad Oblast; 19.2 percent in RRS (Rayons of Republican Subordination); 6.9
percent in GBAO; and only 2.1 percent in Dushanbe. The survey also shows that
the concentration of the poorest population is in GBAO, and accounts for 39.1
percent of the population living in that region.
7. Poverty in Tajikistan is a multidimensional phenomenon. Poverty is primarily
due to limited employment opportunities and low wages, particularly in the
agricultural sector. In part, this reflects the country's low level of productive assets.
However, poverty in Tajikistan also is exacerbated by decreasing access to such
basic public services as education, health care, and water supply, etc. This has hit
the low income segments of the population particularly hard. There also exists a
big divergence in poverty between urban and rural areas. The civil war, economic
and social imbalances combined with the transition from a centrally-planned
economy to a market economy have weakened both informal and formal social
protection systems.
External Debt.
8. Management of foreign debt is a priority area for our Government. Our total
debt stock now exceeds US$1.2 billion and of this amount US$0.87 billion is public
debt. Debt service costs have increased significantly in 1999 and 2000 and are
projected to rise even more rapidly in the coming years and average about US$63
million p.a. between 2001-2010. The burden of debt on public finances is heavy
and the situation leaves us very vulnerable. Public debt to GDP ratio was about 91
percent of GDP at end-2000, and unless restructured, debt service would absorb
more than 40 percent of govemment revenues, which in tum would further limit
social spending, already at the lowest level in the FSU. The external debt situation
threatens balance of payments sustainability as well. Given this situation, we are
discussing debt restructuring/rescheduling possibilities with our creditors. We are
intensifying our efforts to restructure debt we owe to Russia and Uzbekistan and
we expect to conclude our negotiations soon.  Assuming that Russia and
Uzbekistan debts are restructured and there is new concessional lending, we are
expecting to see a gradual decline in the debt service to government revenue ratio
3



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 27
to around 25 percent by 2005. We are monitoring our debt closely and our
medium-term strategy is to replace existing debt with concessional debt and
enhance our tax revenue efforts to be able to service our debt and at the same time
maintain a reasonable level of social spending.
Foreign Trade.
9. The high level of foreign debt makes it crucial to manage our extemal sector
carefully and maintain policies that are supportive of export-led growth. Our
economy is very open with merchandise exports equivalent to 63 percent of GDP in
1999. Despite an increase in import tariffs in early 1999, following Tajikistan's
inclusion into the Customs Union with Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and
Belarus, the country's foreign trade regime remains liberal, in terms of quantitative
restrictions or non-tariff barriers, and average tariffs of 5.5 percent of imports. We
are committed to maintaining an open economy and will be reducing import duties
further as part of agreements reached with the members of Customs Union.
Despite the introduction of flexible exchange rate policies in 1996, current account
deficits remained high at 9.3 percent in 1998. In 1999, we managed to cut the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP. However, due to strong growth in
2000, energy costs, and effects of the drought, the deficit widened to about 6.5
percent of GDP. In the program we agreed with the IMF, we committed to cut the
deficit to 6 percent of GDP in 2001. We will maintain a flexible exchange rate
policy and avoid intervening in the foreign exchange market.  In addition to
structural reforms, we would also be relying on monetary and fiscal polices to
ensure that we maintain a viable external position.
Prices and Monetary Policy.
1 0. The Government is committed to a tight monetary policy to reduce inflation and
ensure the stability of the nominal exchange rate. The IMF is supporting our
monetary policy framework and we are making new commitments to ensure that we
meet program targets. This is necessary as inflation was about 60 percent in 2000,
up from 31.3 percent in 1999. In part, this was due to the depreciation that
occurred soon after the introduction of our new currency, the Somoni in November
2000. More importantly, a higher than expected increase of the reserve money was
caused by unsterilized purchases of foreign exchange inflows from cotton exports.
Given this situation, the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) took steps to control
liquidity, which again reduced inflationary pressures. The average monthly price
increase was around one percent during the December 2000 to February 2001
period. For 2001 as a whole, we are targeting an inflation rate of about 16 percent.
Directed lending by the NBT will continue to be prohibited. All new credit to the
private sector will be supplied through market-based auction and be limited by the
amount of NBT's loan recovery from its directed credits issued earlier in excess of
programmed amounts. The Government and the NBT are also taking measures to
facilitate trading of bonds and bills and these and other institutional improvements
will contribute to more efficient monetary policy management.
Public Finances and Fiscal Policy.
4



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 27
11. Our macroeconomic program emphasizes the importance of a sound fiscal
policy framework in order to support macroeconomic stability. As indicated already,
large debt service costs are putting public finances under severe pressure and the
Govemment is intensifying its efforts to reschedule/restructure our foreign debt.
Our efforts so far have centered on managing expenditures carefully given that our
budgetary revenues are low at about 13.5 percent of GDP. We already cut
expenditures on subsidies, goods and services, and public investment declined in
real terms. This decline more than offset the increases in social spending although
expenditures on the social sectors are still the lowest in the FSU. The budget
deficit improved from 3.1 percent of GDP in 1999 to only 0.6 percent in 2000, and
we are targeting a further improvement to 0.5 percent of GDP in 2001. With
assistance from the IMF, we are strengthening our tax administration and expect
that better tax collection would lead to an improvement of our tax revenues. This is
despite the fact that we are further cutting the sales tax applied to aluminum and
cotton exports this year to enhance export competitiveness. A modem Treasury
Law has been enacted and beginning in March, we extended treasury coverage to
all central govemments outside of Dushanbe and this would lead to significantly
improved expenditure control.  Other key instruments in this context are the
development of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and better budget
planning organization being supported by IDA through the Second Institution
Building and Technical Assistance Project (IBTA2).
MEDIUM TERM STRATEGY
12. In its poverty reduction strategy, the government will rely on the following key
principles: development of a private sector-led rr-arket-based economy;
encouragement of export-led and labor intensive growth; sufficient provision of
basic social services; targeted income support to the poorest; and efficient
governance and increased security.
13. Economic growth is the principal mechanism for providing future generations
with opportunities to find adequate employment and reach higher living standards.
To this end, the govemment will conduct sound macroeconomic policies; promote
enterprise restructuring and private sector development with priority in agriculture;
encourage financial sector development; improve telecommunication and other
infrastructure; and rehabilitate energy and transport sectors. A higher per capita
income growth will be based on private sector initiative. Therefore, the government
will support radical enterprise restructuring and create a favorable environment for
the development of the private sector. It will improve the utilization of resources in
the public sector while redirecting expenditures to benefit the poor.
14. The country's comparative advantage is in its agricultural sector with abundant
water resources, favorable climatic conditions for crop production and livestock
farming, and a cheap labor force. Restructuring the agricultural sector is a priority
for poverty reduction as poorest families live in rural areas. Since land resources
are limited, increase in farm productivity is a key. Agricultural restructuring will
5



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 27
therefore focus on the development of private farming, (in particular small-scale)
which has proved to yield the highest productivity and best distribution of income.
15. Due to the lack of capital and excess labor resources (true unemployment is
estimated at 33 percent) the govemment will implement policies to encourage
labor-intensive growth. An element of the PRSP exercise is to analyze, and if
necessary revise, the legislation and rules regulating the labor market. Labor
market policies and social insurance programs will be developed with a view to
creating a flexible labor market. Training programs consistent with current needs
will continue to be implemented and focused specifically on training and retraining
people dismissed as a result of privatization and structural adjustment.
16.The Government will also take measures to create a competitive banking
system, to ensure a stable environment for the provision of financial services to the
population and enterprises. In addition, it will implement policies to encourage the
development of telecommunication and other infrastructure sectors to increase
competitiveness in the context of global trade to maximize growth and the
development of highest value added goods for exports.  The Government
recognizes that emerging Intemet technologies are essential for Tajikistan,
especially for the younger generations and for teaching in schools.
17. Provision of basic social services is a second key direction of the proposed
strategy. The poor need to be provided with adequate human capital to be in a
position to utilize new opportunities. The availability of basic services in the areas
of education and health, as well as their high quality, are not only a human right but
also a substantial poverty alleviation factor. The government will seek to update
the quality and level of education, as well as the quality of health care provided to
the poor. The income support element of the proposed strategy on poverty
alleviation aims at providing targeted assistance to the poorest, i.e. people
experiencing utmost difficulties or needs. This category includes children and the
elderly.
1 8. Poverty reduction also requires better governance supported by stronger
institutions both in the public and private sectors. These institutions must work in a
transparent and accountable manner, and be available for the whole population,
including the poor. The government is implementing institutional reforms with the
purpose of efficient provision   of public services.  To improve planning,
transparency, and efficiency in public expenditures, a MTEF is being introduced. A
related component of the proposed poverty alleviation strategy is to ensure safe
and efficiently managed security mechanisms so that people can live and take care
of themselves in a safe physical environment.
THE STRUCTURAL REFORM AGENDA SUPPORTED BY SAC2
19. The main objective of the Government's reform program is to sustain relatively
high economic growth rates that Tajikistan attained in the past two years in order to
reduce the widespread poverty in our country.  We fully realize that the
sustainability of growth requires deepening of the reform process. We also realize
6



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 27
that growth would primarily come from the expansion of private sector activities and
exports and the design of our strategy is based on these premises. Our reform
experience has shown that there are a number of structural constraints that hamper
growth and our reform program aims to deal with these in a decisive way. An
important issue at this point is governance in general, an economy-wide matter
affecting the performance of both the public and private sectors. We are well
aware that investment and the formation of new businesses needed to sustain
growth in the longer term will not take place if the policy framework and public
service is not supportive of the private sector in a transparent and accountable
manner.
20. The reform agenda supported by the proposed SAC2 is broad and
encompasses exactly this strategy - a set of policies, laws, and regulations to
improve govemance in both the private and public sectors, including more
transparent budget planning, a regulatory and legal framework to lay the
foundations of an enabling business environment, deepening of financial sector
reforms and building up the capacity of the NBT to expand and supervise the
financial sector in more effective ways, a new approach to privatization with a
strategic focus on the larger enterprises and improved corporate govemance for
public enterprises,   as well as  major reforms in the  transport and
telecommunications sectors. The Government considers that simultaneous effort in
all these areas is necessary as it is becoming clear to us that the effectiveness of
reform in one sector is often dependent on the success of reform in other sectors of
the economy.
21. We are very much aware of the fact that reforms need time to take effect, and
dealing with issues such as govemance is a process and could only be addressed
on a programmatic basis. Likewise, privatization of large enterprises must be well
planned with the appropriate strategic investors for our largest enterprises. In the
interim, Tajikistan needs the support of IDA, the Fund, and the intemational donor
community to assure the sustainability of the reform progress to-date and satisfy
the most basic needs of its poor and disadvantaged population. Support provided
through the proposed SAC2, backed by donor co-financing, would show the
intemational community's resolve to the resolution of Tajikistan's immediate
balance of payments financing needs, and crucial support to a (at least) ten-year
concentrated effort ahead of us to grow out of poverty.
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND SERVICE DELIVERY
Background
22. Supporting Tajikistan's transition towards a market economy now requires
strengthening transparency and accountability and delivery of better public services
and reforming the public administration  These are prerequisites to improve
govemance, which is critical for effectiveness of reforms in all areas.  Our
Govemment realizes that without improved governance, growth of the private
sector and our economy will be severely constrained, which in tum will undermine
7



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 27
our efforts to reduce poverty. Policy actions in public sector management cover
many areas and they are all inter-linked. Our approach reflects this fact and covers
a number of areas ranging from government audit, public administration reforms,
to civil service salaries and to the support of civil society organizations. We realize
that improvements in this area will take time and resolution of problems can only
take place within a medium term context. We are developing a programmatic
approach for improved governance and public sector management under the PRSP
and important implementing initial steps in the following policy actions supported by
SAC2.
Budget Audit and Central Bank Operations
23.The Govemment recognizes that improving transparency and accountability
require audit and public disclosure of the budget. Until recently, Tajikistan did not
have a body to fulfill this role, which was a shortcoming of our system. In order to
address this issue, our President has issued a decree in January 2001 titled "On
the Establishment of the Financial Control Office under the President of the
Republic of Tajikistan," which is responsible for auditing the national budget. An
interim charter has been issued and key staff the office has already been
appointed. A draft law specifying the responsibilities of this audit office is under
preparation. The law will refine the duties of this office and will have provisions for
informing Parliament of its findings related to budget audits. We will submit the
draft Law to Parliament before the end of the year and expecting that the law will
enacted during the second quarter of 2002. Our Government recognizes that
improved governance also means staying within budget constraints for all sectors
of the economy and we are continuously enforcing the policy that the NBT does not
issue directed credit nor engage in quasi-fiscal operations. While this may be
considered a fiscal matter, we also regard it a govemance issue and we are
committed to ensure that directed credits are not issued.
Public Administration Reforms, Civil Service Salaties, and Customs Reforms
24.The structure of our public administration still reflects the former command
economy, as the continuation of the civil conflict did not permit us to start the reform
process in this important area.  As the economic reform  process deepens,
govemment ministries and agencies need to be restructured to redefine their roles
in a market economy context in order to provide efficient and timely public services.
The Govemment is implementing policies to reform public administration and
understands that developing effective ministries, with greater policy expertise and
broader sector-wide perspectives, will provide a firm foundation for further policy
and institutional reforms. The Government's strategy is to introduce structures that
redefine the role of ministries and clarify lines of accountability, and enhance
efficiency.
8



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 27
25. Improvement in policy will be achieved through the extension of modem
economic and social policies, and market principles including a clear statement of
govemment's role. This will be supported by more explicit priority setting, and
specific sectoral strategies, which will more explicitly emphasize the intended
outputs. It is through this process that the overall direction set by the PRSP will be
embraced and the desired outcomes pursued, and inter-linked with MTEF. This
requires overall coordination of the policy development process, ensuring that all
policy and related proposals are consistent with agreed market principles, and
advising on relative priorities, which need to be set for resource allocation. This
includes the ongoing coordination with the development of individual sector
strategies. For each of the key sectors strategies are being developed and first
drafts are ready. These spell out the government's role and intention, consistent
with market principles. They will inform the choice of desired policy outcomes, and
related functions and activities. they will build on and extend the work undertaken
by sector groups within the PRSP framework.
26.The Govemment has already started the reform  process in February 1999
when the President established a Presidential Task Force on Public Administration
Reform. In June 1999 a Project Implementation Unit was established to support
the Task Force. These efforts were supported by IBTA2 and functional reviews of
the key ministries at the central level were undertaken. We are now in the process
of restructuring our ministries in order to improve the delivery of public services.
We have reorganized the Transport Ministry already and created a new Ministry of
Energy.  More recently, we have started the process of restructuring and
reorganizing 4 more ministries, including health, education, and agriculture and
telecommunications. The Government has adopted a phased-in strategy since
complete restructuring of public administration is a process and could only be
completed in a medium term context. The extension of functional reviews to local
government level will begin by October 2001.
27. A Presidential decree has been issued in March redefining the role of these 4
ministries and instructing them  to develop detailed implementation plans for
restructuring at the central government level. The relevant ministries have recently
developed proposals and implementation has begun. By December 2001, each
ministry will submit their new organizational structure to the govemment and these
then will be reviewed and by May 2002 the Government will finalize the first phase
of restructuring. These ministries will then begin restructuring the sector they are
responsible for following the strategy developed under the PRSP process. The
functional reviews have found that some of the ministries carry out functions or
have enterprises under them that are commercial in nature. The commercial and
regulatory functions of each ministry will be split and all commercial functions and
enterprises will be transferred to the non-sectoral ministries including the SPC for
eventual privatization. Another finding of the functional reviews was that some of
the ministries operate institutions and agencies inconsistent with their newly
defined roles. Each ministry is preparing a list of institutions to be transferred to
either a different ministry or another agency. The ministries will submit this list by
December 2001 and these will be transferred to the appropriate govemmental
body. By May 2002, this will be authorized by the issuance of a decree which will
also approve the final structure of each ministry.
9



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 27
28. State Service Commission. To provide a focus for the introduction of a parcel
of management improvement initiatives, the State Service Commission was initially
created in law in 1998. However, the Commission could not be made operational
until recently. This agency will provide principles and guidance on management
practices but will not constrain the exercise of legitimate authority and actions by
senior staff to effectively manage their agency. The institution will provide
procedures for appointment, promotion, evaluation of performance, staff protections
and resolution of grievances and so forth, will oversee all aspects of the new
remuneration arrangements, and undertake sufficient review activity to confirm
compliance with these requirements. We issued two new decrees in early 2001
and provided the organizational structure for the Department of State Services,
which is essential for introduction of a merit-based civil service and effective
implementation of the ministries restructuring plan. The Govemment is planning to
appoint the Director and key staff for this department before the end of the current
year.
29. Customs Administration. Customs reforms are an integral element of public
sector reforms. The Customs Committee has benefited from the support provided
by IBTA2 and has prepared a customs reform program. Our strategy is to redefine
the functions of the Customs Committee and develop an efficient customs
administration that could facilitate trade. The reform program for the Customs
Committee has four components. The first component is related to the revision of
the customs code which needs be updated and revised in line with international
standards. We are aiming to adopt the WTO customs regulations and in this way
we will better define conditions for tax relief and other preferential treatment of
imports and exports and to clarify conditions, terms, and procedures for registration
of importers and exporters. Once these revisions are made, we will provide an
accurate and complete English translation of the customs code for use by all
exporters and importers. Changes to the customs code require amending the
existing code and we are committed to adopt all necessary changes. Work on this
component has already begun and amendments to the code will be submitted to
the Government by December 2001.
30. The second component of our program is the revision of customs procedures
and regulations. Our current regulations are cumbersome and are difficult to
understand and are having an adverse effect on foreign trade. We are developing
a new set of regulations which include (i) redesign of system to include pre-
declarations and clearing of imports and exports; (ii) clearance of imports at first
point of entry within 3 hours except arms and illegal substances; (ii) clearance of
exports at last point of exit from Tajikistan; (iii) introduction of complaints and
appeals system; (iv) make available all Govemment, Customs Committee and
ministerial decrees that affect customs available to importers and exporters in Tajik,
Russian, and English on a non-profit basis. These regulations are being developed
and will be submitted to the Govemment for approval by March 31, 2002.
31. The third and fourth components involve the modernization of the Customs
Committee and measures under these two components will be implemented over a
two year period. The third component is related to the reorganization of the
Customs Committee to no more than 9 levels of employment from Chairman to
Agent and Functional Reorganization into Teams. There was a need to strengthen
10



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 27
the intemal audit function and enforcement division to control corruption, fraud,
waste, and mismanagement including statistical analysis.  For this particular
function we have already taken steps and strengthened the intemal audit
department. This office is now required to report its evaluation to the Government.
The fourth component is to be implemented with the civil service and compensation
reforms. In line with the civil service strategy, we plan to introduce competitive
remuneration, performance incentives, discipline and an appeals process. The
implementation of these policies will begin by May 2002.
Business Inspections and Registration Fees for NGOs and the Population
32. Our reform experience and survey of business conditions indicate that private
businesses suffer from too many inspections. The Govemment has developed a
Black-Book scheme aiming to stop unreasonable interference with private sector
activities by recording all visits of govemment officials to private sector sites. We
will review the Black Book scheme and introduce further regulations satisfactory to
IDA as necessary to stop unreasonable interference in private sector business and
through the Prosecutor's office take actions against officials who perpetrate
government rules and regulations. Implementation of the scheme has begun. The
rules introduced by a Government resolution apply to the actions of control bodies
in making all kinds of inspections (inspections, auditing, counter inspections,
control inspections, etc.) of the activities of transactor units including: fire safety
inspections, sanitary-epidemiological and veterinary safety inspections, energy
consumption supervision, ecological inspections, fito-quarantine and plant
protection inspections, inspections to monitor the observance of the rules of trading
goods, etc.
33. The scheme requires that all entrepreneurs should have an Inspection
Registration Book regardless of the form of ownership. Prior to the inspection the
business owner or manager will show the Inspection Registration Book to the
official for him/her to fill out the relevant columns after the inspections and sign the
book with his full title, agency or government body, and state the reasons for the
inspection. The Govemment will collect a sample of these black books from the
entrepreneurs and analyze the results by March 2002 and propose measures to
deal with emerging issues. In order to deal with this issue in a medium term
context, the Government has instructed the Anti-Monopoly and Entrepreneurship
Agency to coordinate and monitor  inspection activities of key Government
agencies and develop new standards and guidelines for inspections as needed,
which will be issued by May 2002.
34. In order to support civil society and NGOs, we have reduced their registration
fees. We have also reduced fees on birth and death certificates from US$3 to
US$1 and we are committed to keep these fees in line with the eaming capacity of
the population.
11



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 27
BUDGET PLANNING AND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Background
35. Improving effectiveness and efficiency of public resources is one of the major
objectives of the Government. This is critical for economic growth and improved
governance in general. As our economy is moving towards a market-based
system, the need for reorganizing the budgetary organizations and expenditure
frameworks is becoming more obvious. Such reorganization is also dictated by the
ongoing public administration reforms. An important consideration in this context is
the need for a MTEF that establishes a link between macroeconomic targets, public
expenditures, the public investment program (PIP) and the foreign debt position.
We are committed to move ahead with reforms in the areas explained below. We
regard these reforms as essential elements of governance and public sector
management.
Treasury System and Public Finance Legal Framework
36.36 Until recently, Tajikistan did not have a national Treasury and control and
oversight of public expenditures have been difficult. In March 2001, Parliament
approved the Law on Treasury and the coverage of the treasury system was
extended to the remaining six rayons. Work on making the treasury fully functional
is still underway, especially with the computerization of accounting management
and other processes, but we are committed to complete the process during the next
year. As part of enhancing its expenditure management the Government will
consolidate the bank accounts of ministries and transfer the funds to the treasury
single account by the end of the current year.
37. In order to modernize budgetary concepts and processes and to establish the
legal basis of sound fiscal management, a law on Budget systems (called Law on
Public Finances) has been drafted and it is expected that this law will be submitted
to the Parliament in June 2001 and enacted during the first quarter of 2002. The
law aims for introducing modern budget preparation concepts and processes and
requires the adoption of a MTEF. The enactment of this law will lead to major
changes in the way the budget is prepared and executed and this will increase the
efficiency of public expenditures and public service delivery. The Law defines the
roles and responsibilities of the key agencies involved in the budget preparation
process at the local and national levels. The Law requires that sectoral ministries
prepare their budgets on the basis of priorities and instructs the Ministry of Finance
to publish quarterly reports no later than two months after the end of the quarter.
The Law on Public Finances also specifies the process for the budget audit and for
the final approval of the execution of the State budget. The adoption of this law will
require major changes in the way the budget is prepared and we are committed to
implement those.
12



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 27
Budget Planning and Transparency and Public Investment Program
38. We fully realize that the MTEF is a strategic policy and expenditure framework,
fully integrated with the budget, the PRSP, and the PIP which includes priority
investment projects. MTEF budget planning directives and process manuals have
been issued and the 2002 budget to be finalized by December 2001 is being
prepared on this basis for the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, and
Telecommunications. We have been working on the development of a MTEF since
the beginning of the PRSP process with the support of IBTA2. The critical
elements of the MTEF have been prepared. The PIP has been issued in February
and it will be fully integrated into the 2002 budget and work to achieve this has
already begun. In order to ensure that all ministries comply with the requirements
of a well developed MTEF the Ministry of Finance has sent the MTEF circular to all
ministries. We required that the budgets from now on will be prepared according to
the new processes and in a medium term framework. In addition, detailed budget
manuals have been prepared and these will be introduced to the budget staff of
each ministry in training programs planned by the Ministry of Finance. For the
preparation of the 2003 budget, all ministries will comply with the MTEF principles.
The preparation of the MTEF and related activities will be jointly carried out by the
Ministry of Finance staff and consultants financed under IBTA2.
39. The Govemment also recognizes that the MTEF is a vehicle for priorization of
programs that are being developed under the PRSP process and the Ministry of
Finance will publish a full PRSP budget framework paper prior to submitting the
budget to the Parliament identifying and explaining priorities. These are noted in
the circular issued for the development of the MTEF and the circular requires that:
- setting up a linkage between policy development, budgeting and available
resource allocation
- developing medium term programs according to possible changes;
- identify public policy priorities in all sectors of the economy;
- identify expenditure ceilings and direct budget resources according to available
state revenues.
- ensuring the line Ministries' key role in establishing sector program priorities;
- integrating PIP and PRSP into MTEF
- measuring the sector programs and PIP according to the performance
indicators that reflect program performance expectations.
40. It is important for the Govemment to consider priorities and expenditure
directions consistently. Such a procedure requires sector ministries and other key
budget institutions, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, State Statistical
Committee, to make significant efforts as well coordinate these efforts effectively
between themselves. The Government now requires all ministries and agencies to
present their budget need submission on time and on a standard form. We will
monitor implementation of these measures closely. Decisions on state budget
revenue and expenditure and prioritized expenditure trends must be made before
considering all the budget expenditure requests. Sector ministries will receive
13



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 27
instructions on how to complete budget requests and budget ceilings to reflect them
on their budget requests.
41. An important requirement of the circular related to the MTEF preparation is that
sectoral ministries must submit sector strategies with the description of sector
needs, priorities and sector problems. Those ministries and agencies involved in
PRSP are required to include their PRSP programs into a unified budget
expenditure estimate. In addition, these ministries and agencies submit specific
forms on the PRSP program with the description of sector strategy, programs,
goals, and outcomes. Those ministries, agencies and organization which
administer investment projects financed by state budget or by external fund include
these projects into the annual unified budget expenditure estimate with the
indication of financing sources. In addition, these ministries and agencies submit a
specific form with the description of each investment project, strategy, and resource
spending plan.
42.All expenditure and revenue forecasts will be reviewed by the Ministry of
Finance and its Budget Commission in order to exercise control over the budget
process. Final decisions on expenditure estimates of ministries and sectors, new
priorities and possible expansion programs which match with the total sum of
budget revenue estimates are made by the Budget Commission. The Ministry of
Finance may issue new budget ceilings for each ministry and agency which reflect
revenue and expenditure forecasts and proposal on new priority expenditures
approved by the Budget Commission. In order to comply with the requirements of
the MTEF preparation process ministries and agencies must submit documents on
program budgeting in a specific format. Documents will reflect the last two years
actual expenditures, current year execution expectations, budget estimates for the
next year and brief forecasts for the next two subsequent years.
43.This process will be further strengthened for the 2003 budget planning cycle
which will begin April 2002. In order to increase transparency in the public sector,
the Government has started to issue quarterly budget execution reports to the
public and has made the PIP publicly available. In this respect we are preparing a
strategy for capacity building in line ministries for MTEF budget preparation and
execution starting with Health and Education ministries. The PIP will be fully
integrated into our 2002 budget and the Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF)
by December 2001 and adequate counterpart funds will be allocated in the budget
in a timely manner.
Activity/Population Based Costing
44. The costing of expenditure programs we inherited from the old system is still
norm based. This system is not appropriate for serving as the basis for program
cost estimates under current conditions. We are developing a pilot program to be
implemented by the Ministries of Education and Health to switch to
activity/population based costing and this is in the context of medium term budget
planning In accordance with this requirement by the Decision of the Government
beginning from 2002 Public Health and Education sectors will submit their budgets
14



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 27
according to activity/population bases cost estimates. These sectors have been
chosen as pilot because they provide services to a great number of the population
in the country and there is a need to increase effectiveness and efficiency of budget
recourses in these fields. In addition, it is one of the priorities of the Govemment to
improve the level of education and public health.
45. The PRSP work on costing out implementation of reforms is underway.
Introduction of program budgeting will improve the process of setting up clear
priorities and also establish linkage between budget organization services and their
expenditures. Program Budgeting is an important MTEF component and one of the
best modem methods for budget planning.
46. The basic goal of program budgeting is to provide enough useful information
resources and outputs/outcomes associated with a program so that decision-
makers will be able to form their own judgements about the priority of the program
- its value to the country relative to all the other services or policies that are
competing for scarce resources. Program budgeting adds discipline to the budget
process, stimulates discussion on program effectiveness and program efficiency. It
can also help to direct resources to program achieving results and away from those
that are not. The Ministries of Public Health and Education will develop instructions
for their sub-institutions on developing budget programs meeting the following
requirements; (i) identify sector mission, objectives and goals; (ii) identify programs
and subprograms within the established functional budget classification; (iii)
describe clearly services for each program, identify targets and program tasks as
well program outcome performance indicators for measuring and appraisal
purposes; (iv) program cost calculation according to economic classification and
identify number of staff required for program accomplishment; (v) set up and break
down priorities among programs.
Expenditure Tracking
47. The supply side of public service delivery is typically proxied by budget
allocations and administrative data. However, budgetary allocations can be poor
predictors of the services that beneficiaries actually receive. For example, in
Tajikistan little is known about the process of transformation of budget allocations
into actual services. Meanwhile, household analysis taken under the Poverty
Assessment Report indicates that poor quality of services is an important variable
for explaining the demand for and usage of public services or lack thereof.
Problems of service delivery can arise at any level within the govemment structure.
In order to understand the amount of services actually received by the population,
the Government will be undertaking an expenditure tracking survey to help identify
the location and extent of problems in financial flows.
48.The World Bank's Poverty Assessment Report (PA) has shown that public
service delivery in education and health sectors are the lowest in the former Soviet
Union and for this reason we will be focusing on these sectors. While this may be
expected on the basis of low budgetary allocations, there is some evidence that not
all allocated funds are reaching schools, health facilities, and other entitled
beneficiaries. Furthermore, we do not have sufficient information how shipment of
15



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 27
medicines and equipment, textbooks are distributed and used by the Government
which further lowers service delivery. Given these issues the Ministry of Education
and Ministry of Health have decided to implement Public Expenditure Tracking
Surveys (PETS). Both agencies have identified staff to carry out the surveys and
interpret the results to formulate policies to deal with the emerging problems. For
this purpose, the Ministry of Finance will be providing training and educate the
staffs of Health and Education ministries. Furthermore, support will be provided by
IBTA2, in particular with the interpretation of the results and development of policy
actions. We plan to complete this exercise by May 2002.
FINANCIAL SECTOR GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Background
49. Our reform effort in the financial sector has intensified since 1998 and
considerable progress has been made in laying out the basic legal and regulatory
framework. However, a number of factors have hindered progress towards the
creation of a viable banking system. While the NBT stopped issuing directed credit
by mid-2000, the stock of non-performing loans was already too large and this is
crippling the banking sector. Deficiencies in the legal regime, property rights, and
corporate governance could not be addressed on time in part because of lack of
expertise in the country on these matters. The tax authorities had the right to
intrude into bank databases without court orders, which deterred the deposit
mobilization efforts of banks. Some of the banks have not been able to keep up
with the increasing capital requirements and some other prudential regulations.
These factors have led to low overall confidence in the financial system. The level
of financial intermediation, measured by broad money-to-GDP ratio, remains at a
low 5 percent level. As a consequence, the sector is not able to perform its
resource mobilization and allocation role.
50. The restructuring of the larger banks is under implementation. A Restructuring
Agreement was signed in April of 1998 (under SAC1) between 4 of the 5 largest
banks   (Agroinvestbank,   Savings   Bank,   Tajikbankbusiness,   and
Vneshekonombank) and NBT.  This agreement envisioned reorganizing the
management structure of banks, reducing employment, collecting overdue loans,
and increasing paid-in capital. The Agreement specified a phase-out period, during
which banks must comply with prudential standards and requirements.  The
liquidation of Tajikbankbusiness followed a long non-compliance record of the bank
and was a direct result of the Restructuring Agreement. In order to maintain the
momentum, we signed a new set of bank restructuring agreements with the 4
largest banks in May 2000. The new agreements called for full compliance with
main prudential standards, undertake management and operational restructuring,
improve loan recovery, and boost profitability by June 30, 2001 or else face
liquidation. While these banks have made considerable progress with loan
recoveries, risk management, intemal audits, and all have received independent
audits, there have been delays on their operational restructuring (downsizing of
staff and/or offices) which we expect to take place during the rest of the year and in
2002.
16



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 27
51. Our objective in the financial sector is to further improve the legal and
regulatory framework in all segments of the system to establish confidence and at
the same time accelerate the restructuring of the banking system, including exit of
banks that are not able to meet prudential requirements. Some of the new policy
reforms are aimed at supporting private sector development, such as amendments
to the Law on Collateral, which has implications for the financial sector. We also
attach a great deal of importance for enhancing the availability and access to
medium-term credit for the newly emerging private sector and promoting the
establishment of non-bank financial intermediaries, especially credit unions for
small scale enterprises (SMEs) and for rural credit. To this end, the NBT has
drafted new regulations and these were adopted already.
Regulatory Framework, Enforcement, and Building Confidence
52. Building confidence in our financial system, mostly made up of commercial
banks at this point, requires putting in place a regulatory framework that is in line
with intemational standards. The minimum capital requirement for banks is now
US$1 million and we are increasing this requirement to US$2 million effective end-
2001. Since November 2000 we have withdrawn banking licenses of five banks
that did not meet the minimum capital requirements. We are now reviewing the
portfolios of these banks and considering options for their merger with each other.
Some of these banks are too weak and need to be liquidated and their assets will
be transferred to the newly created Agency of Bank Liquidation and Collection
(ALCO) before the end of the current year. With the exit of poorly capitalized banks
we expect higher deposit volume in the system. Another policy reform will be in the
area of enforcing full compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) for
classified non-performing loans so as to get a realistic assessment of the quality of
bank portfolios. We issued a directive that requiring all banks to report to NBT the
quality of their portfolios after adjusting for losses/gains implied by the application of
IAS standards on a monthly basis. In order to ensure transparency in the system,
we will also require each of the four largest banks to publish their audited financial
statements within 120 days of its fiscal year-end.
Tax Treatment of Deposits, Loan Loss Provisions, and Bank Assets
53. Despite improvements, our tax code permitted authorities to have access into
bank databases and conducting reviews of customer accounts without a court order
while carrying out corporate tax examinations of banks. This deters the deposit
mobilization efforts of banks and many people choose to stay away from the
banking system as a whole. This is not in line with our objective of increasing the
amount of deposits, which is the main source of funding for bank credit and this
negatively impacts private sector development. Therefore, we have submitted to
the Parliament amendments to the existing tax code (Article 104, Section J) so that
it will require a court order for tax authorities (i) to access customer accounts; (ii)
impose fees and penalties on client accounts; (iii) and /or freeze clients financial
institutions' accounts. Two more tax code amendments were submitted to the
Parliament. The first amendment will allow for full tax deductibility of loan loss
17



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 27
provisions for non-standard loans in order to provide better incentive for banks for
provisioning. The second issue is that the tax was assessed on the basis of net
assets. The proposed amendment changes this so banks will be taxed on their
fixed assets such as land and buildings. These amendments will be enacted
before the end of the current year.
Non-Bank Intermediaries, Collateral, and Secondary Markets for Securities
54. The Govemment is encouraging the establishment of non-bank financial
institutions in the financial sector. We are expecting that a number of banks will
exit the banking system following the introduction of higher capital requirements by
the end of this year and we have amended the basic regulations on financial
intermediaries.  The NBT has further developed and amended the regulatory
framework for credit unions and rural credit organizations. Furthermore, easy-to-
understand guidelines have been issued for establishments and regulations of non-
bank financial institutions. The Government is also taking steps to reduce
transactions costs of lending and borrowing. The fee to transfer ownership of
collateral in the event of default was 20 percent, which is too high. The fee is
different for various categores of collateral and both of these factors were deterring
lending by banks. We have submitted amendments to the Law on Collateral for
Parliament's consideration and expect that these amendments will be enacted
during the first quarter of 2002. With the amendments, this fee will be unified and
reduced to an average of 3 percent. In order to promote the development of
secondary markets for financial instruments and for more efficient operation of
financial institutions, the NBT also has developed a legal framework for repo and
reverse-repo transactions and access to Lombard facility. The new regulations
also allow up to 25 percent of required reserves to be kept with the NBT in T-bills.
These measures will not only improve the working of the markets but will also
enable NBT to be a more effective manager of money markets and improve its
capacity for monetary policy making.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND GOVERNANCE
Background
55. Our medium-term strategy critically rests on developing a private sector that is
capable of driving economic growth. The human capital base of our country
compares favorably with other developing countries at much higher income levels.
The challenge facing us is the development of an investment climate that will lead
to new business formation. In this connection, we realize that the regulatory
framework and licensing requirements are very important factors and our
Govemment recently intensified reform efforts in these areas. In February 2001,
we established a new Anti-Monopoly and Entrepreneurship Support Agency. The
Agency is responsible for maintaining a level playing field to strengthen competition
18



ANNEX I
Page 19 of 27
in the market, provide support to the business sector and will review existing
legislation regarding the private sector and propose amendments, among others
using information from the Black Book scheme mentioned above.
56. We realize that private sector development is very much related to the
effectiveness of reforms in other sectors, such as govemance in general, financial
sector reforms, and this is the major reason why we are simultaneously moving
with reforms in these areas well. Our objective is to support the private sector and
encourage our citizens to exploit their skills as much as possible. In this
connection, we are also making efforts to inform the private sector on new
regulations and laws and these are now printed in newspapers.
Financial Transparency, Regulatory Framework, and access to Commercial
Courts
57. In addition to pressing ahead with the development of a business friendly
regulatory framework, our Govemment is determined to remove existing constraints
to private sector development and encourage the entry of new businesses into the
market.  Prior to the stabilization of the economy, tax offsets and barter
transactions were frequently used to facilitate payments. This imposed high
transaction costs and deterred business activity. Our Government has already
eliminated tax offsets and barter transactions are now negligible.  We are
committed to not introducing tax offsets or directed credits to any sector. A decree
will be issued stipulating that the accounts payable and receivable of the largest
four public enterprises, Bark-i Tajik, TADAZ, Tajiktelekom, and Tajik Gas must be
kept current to 90 days sales equivalent and settled through cash mechanisms.
Due taxes of these enterprises will be transferred to the budget in a timely manner.
The decree will also include instructions to cut-off utility services to enterprises and
budgetary institutions who are not current on their payments. We understand that a
core condition for the second tranche release of SAC2 is that a 3-month track
record of implementation of this decree has been established. Adequate resources
will be allocated in the 2002 budget for budgetary institutions to pay for their utility
bills.
58. Our experience with private sector development points to the importance of
easy dispute resolution mechanisms and access to commercial courts. Current
regulations make it too expensive for many to approach commercial courts to settle
disputes and this hinders the development of the private sector. We are committed
to amend the regulations in this regard. In particular, we have reduced the
economic court fees from the 10 percent of the value of a claim to an average of 4
percent to give the private sector easier access to courts. We will reduce this fee
further to a uniform 2 percent of the value of the claim by May 2002.
19



ANNEX I
Page 20 of 27
Business Development Support, Training, and Auditing of Large Enterprises
59. As part of our strategy to support the private sector, the Government is
developing Private Sector/Govemment Partnership forums at the local govemment
level and the Anti-Monopoly and Entrepreneurship Support Committee will be
supporting this initiative. We are expecting that this forum will provide feedback to
our Government so that we will be able to respond to the needs of the private
sector as soon as possible. During the last couple of years, it became obvious to
us that there is an urgent need to provide training and business support services for
entrepreneurs.   The Anti-Monopoly and Entrepreneurship Agency is now
responsible for establishing business centers extending beyond Dushanbe and to
regional cities. We have conducted a business conditions survey and the Anti-
Monopoly and Entrepereneurship Agency will develop policies to deal with
emerging constraints during the remainder of the current year and propose new
measures during the first quarter of 2002.
60. We are also requiring external audits of our large enterprises so that they can
begin to establish a track-record, which is a prerequisite for attracting foreign
investment. lAS audits will be conducted on an annual basis for TADAZ starting in
2001, and TADAZ will sign a contract with a reputable international firm and
complete the audit of the year 2000 balance sheet and income statement before
the end of 2001. Annual audits for Bark-i Tajik, Tajik Air, and Tajiktelekom will start
in 2002 of their 2001 balance sheets, and for Tajik Gas and Tajik Rail will start in
2004 as part of normal business practice and expense.
Private Sector Development in Agriculture
61. An important element of our private sector strategy is related to the agricultural
sector. Costs of acquiring and registration of land are high relative to the incomes
of farmers and this is negatively impacting agricultural development. In order to
address this problem, we have issued a decree and reduced the land registration
fee for (dekhan) farms from US$36 to US$18 and at the same time eliminated the
need for dekhan farms to be registered as corporate entities. By end-January
2002, we will have a fully computerized system for land use right records with
speedy public access, which will ensure the integrity of the records in the State
Land Committee both at rayon and state level. By end-January 2002, we will then
further reduce the fee for registration of land use rights to US$6. The taxation of the
agricultural sector also needs to be simplified. At present, there are more than 10
different types of taxes imposed on the agricultural sector depending upon the
nature of activity. We have submitted to Parliament amendments to the Tax Code
which will enable us to switch to a single fax regime instead of ten different taxes in
4 rayons as pilot projects. We will start implementing these pilots in January 2002
and consider extending this policy after evaluating the results.
20



ANNEX I
Page 21 of 27
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE REFORMS
Background
62. Our privatization program was initially developed in 1991. However, due to the
civil conflict and institutional weaknesses we could not proceed as quick as we
expected. Tajikistan's law on privatization divides state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
into three groups: (i) those approved for privatization; (ii) those approved for
privatization by special decision of the Government, mostly infrastructure and utility
services; and (iii) those not approved for privatization, primarily defense
establishments, minerals and cultural entities). State-owned enterprises (SOEs)
are further classified by size: (i) enterprises with 1-99 working spaces are
considered small-scale; (ii) enterprises with 100-199 working spaces are classified
as medium-scale; and (iii) enterprises with 200 or more working spaces are
considered large-scale. Small-scale enterprises are sold through auction, and
medium and large scale enterprises can be sold through auction or tender. The
program to which the Government agreed under the SAC1 included only
enterprises proposed for privatization. As an initial step, the Govemment put in
place the legal framework to support privatization and private sector development.
The Government prepared amendments to the laws on Privatization, Bankruptcy,
Joint Stock Companies and Securities and Stock Exchange and submitted them to
the Majles Oli. It also approved and implemented the Privatization Action Plan for
1998 and 1999, and established a centralized share registry in the Ministry of
Finance (MoF).
63.The Government has sharply accelerated the pace of privatization with the
support of SAC1. In the seven years prior to SAC1 (1991-98), 2413 of 6426 small-
scale enterprises approved for privatization were privatized. Two years later, by
January 2000, 5286 small-scale enterprises were privatized. By the end of first
quarter of 2001 5817 small enterprises were privatized, or 91 percent of the
approved list of small enterprises (6426). The Government has decided to convert
all medium and large enterprises into open joint stock companies as a first step of
privatization, and has simplified the incorporation process. As of January 2000,
738 medium and large-scale enterprises were incorporated.  Privatization of
medium- and large-scale SOEs began in eamest during 1999; most of 1998 was
devoted to the incorporation process.  During 1992-1999, a total of 166
medium/large enterprises were privatized (12 during 1991-97, 20 in 1998, and
another 134 during 1999). During 2000 and up to present about another 150
enterprises were privatized bringing the total to about 325. By April, full payment
was received for 280 enterprises. (Privatization is defined as the sale of at least 75
percent of an enterprise's shares or sale of all assets. Sale of an enterprise is
deemed to have taken place only upon the receipt of full payment to the State
budget for shares or assets.). English-style auctions of 75 percent plus one share
has been the primary method of sale. Buyers have mainly come from outside
company management (insiders have no special privileges under the amended
Privatization Law).
64. The portfolio of state-owned medium and large-scale enterprises remains large,
and stands as a reminder of Tajikistan's recent history as a command economy.
We realize that the large portfolio of SOEs impedes poverty reduction in a number
21



ANNEX I
Page 22 of 27
of ways. First, it significantly burdens the country's finances, which could be more
productively utilized in health, education, and infrastructure investments. Second, it
prevents more efficient utilization of assets by private owners. Third, it crowds out
the emergence of the private sector, to the extent that potential entrepreneurs are
wary of trying to compete with SOEs, many of which enjoy direct or indirect
subsidies. Accordingly, the Govemment puts a high priority on transferring state-
owned assets to private ownership as quickly as possible, while still ensuring a
transparent, competitive and politically sustainable process. We expect to see a
substantial increase in the private sector's share in GDP in the next two years in
part due to our privatization program. Our objective also includes improved
corporate governance for enterprises that are expected to remain under the public
sector or to be readied for privatization.
Privatization Program and Privatization Strategy for Strategic Enterprises
65. Our approach to privatization of public enterprises is changing and our new
program is focusing on medium and large and on our strategic enterprises. As
stipulated in our Privatization Law, we have about 100 medium and large
enterprises that are to be privatized on a case-by-case basis.  We need to
strengthen technical capacity for case-by-case privatization transactions. As a first
step we are developing a three-year strategic privatization plan, including a pipeline
of large-scale enterprises to be privatized, according to the agreed terms-of-
reference. This plan will include the 6 strategic enterprises. These transactions are
large and require reputable strategic investors or management contracts. We will
continue to work with international financial institutions to ensure that this new
program is implemented in the most beneficial way to our country.
66. With respect to TADAZ, we intend to complete IAS audit using reputable
international audit firm. By May 2002, the Government will issue a resolution
adopting a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to achieve economic viability
of TADAZ on a sustainable basis. The action plan will include measures for
financial restructuring and recapitalization, technical rehabilitation and operational
restructuring based on the TADAZ study conducted with the support of the IFC and
the outcome of the audit for 2000. Furthermore, it will include concrete measures
for making available technical, market and managerial know-how through a
contract with an intemationally reputable firm, which would be hired according to
World Bank competitive bidding procedures. An intemational consulting firm will
assist with the formulation of the action plan. Besides we are also taking steps to
ensure that our strategic enterprises operate on market economy principles,
including strong financial discipline and annual IAS audits, as described above. We
are working with the EBRD on Tajiktelekom and Tajik Air and with Asian
Development Bank on Tajik Rail as further discussed in the Infrastructure section
below.
67. Our privatization program for medium and large enterprises, excluding about
100 enterprises to be privatized on a case-by-case basis, aimed for having about
325 sale contracts with 280 full payments received by the end of March 2001 on a
cumulative basis.
This is achieved.  We will be privatizing additional 100 enterprises with full
payments by June 2002.  In order to ensure we attain this target, we are
22



ANNEX I
Page 23 of 27
introducing mechanisms to deal with technical valuation problems; in some cases
initial asking prices were too high for the market and this slowed down the process.
Therefore, for those enterprises that have not been sold on two consecutive
English auctions, the decision to put them on Dutch auction will be taken within 4
weeks after the 2nd auction. Through this process we will be able to accelerate our
privatization program.
Corporate Governance and Disclosure of Public Enterprises
68.The management and oversight of our public enterprises needs significant
strengthening. As functional reviews of ministries progress as part of the public
administration reforms, it is revealed that a number of ministries own enterprises
that are engaged in commercial activities. Once the reviews are complete, these
enterprises will need to be transferred to non-sectoral ministries, including the State
Property Committee (SPC) for their eventual privatization. We are also requiring all
enterprises that are subject to privatization through auctions to submit their 2000
accounting balance sheets and quarterly accounting balance sheets to the SPC. In
addition, we will have incorporated all medium and large enterprises subject to
privatization. The Ministry of Economy, jointly with the SPC will monitor all public
enterprises and the SPC will exercise the role of the owner on behalf of the State.
Farm privatization
69.The Agriculture sector is of vital importance to the economy of Tajikistan.
About 79 percent of the 5.2 million population live in rural area. Only 7 percent of
the country's total area of 143,100 sq. k ms is flat land. The country's croplands,
pastures, meadows represent 31.6 percent of its territory. The agricultural sector
contribute to more than 30 percent of export revenues, and up to about 37 percent
of govemment tax revenues mainly through the taxation of cotton. It also accounts
for over 60 percent of formally employed laborers but the large majority of the rural
poor eam less than a dollar a day. Until 1995, the state dominated the sector
through 597 large State and  collective farms constituting 93 percent of the
cultivated farm land in the country. The cotton crop contributed to 40 percent of of
agricultural production, livestock 30 percent, food crops 30 percent, and the
country was a net importer of grains. Transformation of the agricultural sector is
critical for the reduction of rural poverty in Tajikistan. The Government recognizes
that the country's significant comparative advantage lies in the agricultural sector -
with its endowment of abundant water resources, hydro-electric power, favorable
agro-climatic conditions for crop and livestock development, and low labor cost
Govemment is committed to raise the living standards of the rural poor.
70. Privatization of Larae State and Collective Farms (SCFs):. We have privatized
about 30 percent of the SCF lands (in 185 of the 596 SCFs). A number of different
forms of farm structures have come into existence in the recent years - such as
Joint stock companies, Leasehold Associations, and Dehkan Associations.
Privatization of these large state and collective farms is crucial for poverty
reduction. While we have been privatizing farm land and we are committed for
pressing ahead with reforms in this area, the process has not always been
23



ANNEX I
Page 24 of 27
transparent and fair and this situation negatively impacted our poverty reduction
efforts. Tackling this issue requires the implementation of transparent procedures
for land use rights and asset allocation; designing and implementing "bottom up"
approaches; supported by a comprehensive information campaign nationwide to
increase people's awareness in all aspects of the land privatization and farm
restructuring process supported by a well organized land registry system. Since
part of the problem has been due to the institutional capacity constraints of the SLC
as a result of its growing work program, we have upgraded its status to a ministerial
level and are increasing its budget by 10 percent for the remainder of 2001. With
these institutional strengthening measures are in place, we have adopted the
following ten step procedure to ensure transparency and fairness:
(i) The Formation of local commission with representatives of farm employees,
village administration, and farm community groups to decide the farm
reorganization;  Calling of the General Body meeting of the farm and announcing
the intension to privatize and decide by majority vote (not less than 70 percent ) of
farm workers to privatize the farm; and then draw up the proceedings and to be
signed by members present;
(ii) Sending the resolution to the Rayon administration through the Jomoat and get
the approval of the Hukumat to privatize the farm;
(iii) Demarcation of land within each farm for allocation to individuals or groups of
individuals for private use, and demarcate limited areas that will remain under state
and municipal ownership under a land fund;
(iv) Determination of the list of individuals who would have rights to cultivate
privatized land - qualifying criteria are outlined in the draft land reform law and
qualifying individuals for each farm are determined by the local agricultural reform
commissions set up by the Rayon administration based on length of his service in
the farm;
(v) Determination of individual/family land share and non-land shares based on
farm size, land quality classification, and .number of citizens within the farm
possessing legal rights, determined by the local commissions assisted by the state
land committee with maps;
(vi) Distribution and allocation of land shares based on order, size and parcel
location determined by a lottery supervised by the Rayon and local agricultural
reform commissions (ARC);
(vii) Physical demarcation of allocated parcels using stakes and boundary surveys
in presence of public, followed by permanent boundary markings of individual land
parcels by the State Land Committee (SLC);
(viii) Preparation of land certificates (acts) and other required documentation for
ARC approval and Rayon administration; complete the process of any appeal of
land allocation or other decisions of local ARC, Rayon or federal authorities, if
found necessary;
24



ANNEX I
Page 25 of 27
(ix) Final approval of land allocation with supporting documents and certificates by
the SLC;
(x) Issuance of certified and registered copies of land use right certificate to
private individuals to whom the land use rights have been allotted and provide
access to public Land Use Right Records at the Rayon level.
71. We have taken the first step and identified 120 SCFs for systematic
privatization. The Hukumat administrations would be directed to hold General Body
meetings in at least 60 SCFs by end June 2001 and if so decided by the General
Body meeting to provide the official permission to distribute the lands to workers as
private individuals or groups of private individuals. At the same time the
Govemment, will undertake a nationwide farm privatization campaign by publishing
and disseminating through mass media detailed regulations and step by step
procedures for the privatization of SCFs. By December 2001 rayon Hukumats
would have issued approval to farmers which will enable the SLC to complete the
process for issuing the land use right certificates in at least 40 SCFs by May 2002.
This would facilitate divestiture of all the 596 SCFs in the entire country in a
systematic, a fair and equitable manner supported by transparent recording system
accessible to the public in about 4 years and would facilitate establishment of land
use right markets.
INFRASTRUCTURE REFORMS: TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Background
72. In line with global trends, the Government is aiming for commercialization and
increased private sector involvement in the transport and telecommunications
sectors. The movement of goods and people in all sectors of the economy
depends upon efficient transport. A functional system of transport is also required
to reap the benefits of regional trade, which can be expected to rise with greater
political stability in Tajikistan. Developing the telecommunications sector would
enable businesses and individuals to transmit information more easily, which is
needed for the expansion of markets and to increase economy-wide efficiency.
This is also a prerequisite if Tajikistan is to be part of the globalization process and
improve its access to world markets. The Government is well aware of the fact that
further development of these two important sectors is possible only with greater
private sector involvement, given the tight budgetary conditions.
Telecommunications
73. The Govemment has started reforming the telecommunications sector in 1996.
In that year, the state communications complex was split into Tajiktelekom,
Teleradio Communications, and Tajik Post. Tajiktelekom operates all fixed line
25



ANNEX I
Page 26 of 27
local, long distance, and intemational telecommunications infrastructure. The state
still holds 100 percent share in both Tajiktelekom and Teleradio Communications.,
Consequently, the Ministry of Communications is at the same time the only
shareholder in the fixed operator and the policymaker and regulator of the sector,
which is conflict of interest and not in line with intemational practice. Due to
budgetary constraints, there has been very little investment in the sector for the
past ten years. Rudimentary communication infrastructure and low accessibility
constrain access to markets, inhibit private sector growth, impede competition, and
hinder the efficient delivery of public services such as education, health, and
security.
74. We fully realize that the first step is to develop a transparent legal and
regulatory framework opening up all market segments to effective competition and
private investment inflow. Since last year the Ministry of Telecommunications has
been working on a new law which would allow the emergence of a true multi-
operator structure for both service and infrastructure providers. Policymaking,
regulation, and operations in the sector will be split by establishing an institutionally
independent regulator for the telecommunications sector in line with the public
administration reforms. The legal and regulatory framework will also aim for close
harmonization with emerging global trends, especially those pertaining to
telecommunications in the Fourth Protocol of the General Agreement on Trade in
Services (GATS) under the aegis of the WTO. The Govemment is receiving
technical assistance from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) in the development of the new law and the regulatory framework, which is
also providing assistance with the development of a privatization plan. The new
law will be submitted to Parliament before end 2001 and it will be enacted by May
2002. The independent regulator will be also be established by May 2002.
Transport Sector
75. The Government has recently intensified its efforts to reform the transport
sector. During the last quarter of 2000, a new Transport Law has been enacted.
With this law we eliminated inconsistencies and contradictions contained in the
previous law, which hampered the development of the private sector.  The
Transport Policy Statement of October 1998 improved the legal environment for
privatization of the sector by declaring the goals of separating govemment
functions from the private sector, making licensing nonrestrictive and liberalizing
tariff policies. The new law has provisions for introducing performance contracts
between the Govemment and state-owned enterprises, limiting regulation to safety
and technical standards, and addressing cross-subsidy issues. Following the
enactment of the new Transport Law, the Govemment established the new Ministry
of Transport and grouped road, rail, and air under this ministry as part of the
ongoing public administration reforms supported by IBTA2.
76. The Ministry now has authority over the Road Transport Network, Railways,
Tajik Airlines, and various enterprises dealing with passenger and freight transport
and is now moving to deepen reforms in the sector. With the new Law on
Transport, we have begun restructuring the Tajik Air and Tajik Rail. In line with our
objective of separating commercial and regulatory functions of Tajik Air and Tajik
Rail, we have created a Civil Aviation Department and Railways Department
26



ANNEX I
Page 27 of 27
within the Ministry of Transport, which are responsible for the development of the
regulatory framework and its enforcement. We will be adopting an open-skies
policy to encourage new airlines to fly to Tajikistan as well. Our objective is to split
Tajik Air into three different business units: (i) air flights; (ii) airports; and (iii)
ground services and technical facilities including flight controllers and prepare it for
privatization. As a first step, we are separating revenues and costs of each
business unit by May 2002. This would then serve as the basis of future
privatization plans. Tajik Rail will also be split by May 2002 into three different
business units comprised of: (i) rolling stock operation and maintenance; (ii)
railway stations, terminals and freight terminals, and (iii) railways and related
structures.
Regards,
Akil Akilov
Prime Minister
Republic of Tajikistan
27






ANNEX I
Attachment
Tajikistan: Policy Matrix of the Government's LDP for SAC2
Public Sector Management and Service Delivery
(Objective: Stren ,then transparency and accounta ility, deliver better public service)
1. Central     Directed credit to agriculture   Eliminate directed credit  Continue policy of no directed
Bank           and some enterprises, which   operations of the NBT and  credit operations of the NBT
adds to stock of non-      provide credit resources    and provide credit resources
performing loans. Quasi-   solely through credit auctions. solely through credit auctions.
fiscal operations by the
National Bank of Tajikistan
(NBT).
2. Budget      No audit of Govemrnment     Establish the "Financial    Enact Law on the Financial
Audit          budget.                     Control Office" as the      Control Office.
supreme audit agency.
3. Inspections  Excessive inspections of   Introduce Black Book to     Establish standards and
private businesses and no  document and monitor        guidelines governing
standards and guidelines   inspection activities of    inspections.
governing inspections.     various Government agencies
of the private sector.     Review Black Book scheme and
No govemment agency                                    amend regulations as necessary
coordinating government    Establish an agency that    to minimize unreasonable
support to the private sector.   would coordinate and monitor interference, satisfactory to
the activities of various  IDA.
ministries as they impact
private sector development.   Starting end-December submit
quarterly review to IDA.
4. Civil       Salary structure based on   Complete Civil Service      Adopt a time bound plan and
service reforms  norm inherited from the   survey to develop proposals   begin implementation of
and            previous system.            for the government wage     government wage reform.
compensation                               reform.
Appoint the Director of the
Department of State Services by
October 2001.
5. Functional  The structure and           Restructure Ministry of     Expand functional reviews to
reviews and    organization of ministries and  Transport and Ministry of  local government level by
ministry       the public administration are   Energy.                 October 2001.
restructuring  based on the old structure,
which is not in line with the    Start developing restructuring  Adopt final restructuring action
role of the State in a market   action plans of 4 ministries at  plans for each of the 4 ministries
economy.                   the central level including  satisfactory to IDA by
health, education agriculture,  December 2001, including the
Functional reviews of      and telecommunications      determination of the enterprises,
ministries for public      based on the functional     institutions, and agencies to be
administration reforms are    reviews prepared under   transferred to other non-sectoral
underway under IBTA 2.     IBTA2 and as specified in the  ministries, including the SPC,
Presidential decree issued on   as part of the reorganization of
1



ANNEX I
Attachment
March 14, 200 1.           health, education, agriculture,
and telecommunications
ministlies in line with their
newly defined functions.
Issue a decree approving the
resulting structure of each
ministry, and authorizing the
transfer of enterprises,
institutions, and agencies, not
part of the new structure, to non-
sectoral ministries, including the
SPC, by May 2002.
6. Customs    Regulations governing        Develop a customs reform    Satisfactory to IDA:
customs administration need   program which includes:  (i) enact revision of the Customs
improvement, and some      (i) revision of the Customs    code;
inefficient and lengthy    code;                       (ii) adopt revisions of Customs
customs procedures leave   (ii) revision of Customs    procedures and regulations and
room for discretion and    procedures and regulations    strengthen the internal audit
corruption.                and strengthen the internal    function;
audit function;            (iii) start modernization of
Intemal audit mechanism    (iii) a plan for the        Customs.
needs strengthening.        modemization of Customs
t__________________ _ lover a 2 year period.             ____
Budget Planning, Execution and Expenditure Tracking
(Objective: Improve effectiveness and efficiency of public resources)
7. Treasury    The lack of a national      Enact a Treasury Law and    Transfer the bank accounts of
Treasury weakens           extend treasury coverage to    ministries to Treasury and
management and control of    all central and local     consolidate these accounts of
expenditures.              government transactions.    into the Treasury's single
account.
8. Public       Lack of a comprehensive    Submit to IDA and IMF for    Enact the Law.
finance        public finance law specifying  final review draft Law on
the duties and responsibilities  Public Finances consistent
of ministries and various  with modern budget concepts
agencies involved the      and processes, which
budgetary process in line with  redefines the budget
the role of the State in a  preparation process in line
market economy.            with the role of the State in a
market economy, including
No standards in determining   the adoption of a medium-
the budgetary allocations and  term expenditure framework
lack of modern processes to   (MTEF).
ensure that budgeted amounts
represent priorities.
9. Budget      Old budget planning         Issue directive on MTEF     Adopt a strategy for capacity
planning        mechanisms and regulations   budget preparation and    building in line ministries for
in place, which assigns    execution.                  MTEF budget preparation and
limited role to line ministries.                       execution.
No medium term expenditure                             Prepare the 2002 budget for
____________fram!ework (MITEF).        _____________Ministries of Agriculture,



ANNEX I
Attachment
Education, Healtho and
Telecommunications using the
MTEF planning directives and
process manuals.
Start preparation of 2003 budget
for all rninistries according to
MTEF planning directives and
process nmanuals.
10. Expendi-    Household survey indicates                          Complete expenditure-tracking
ture tracking for that budgetary allocations for                    exercise in health and education
Health and     health and education are not                         sectors by December 2001.
Education      always reaching the intended
agencies or segments of the                          Adopt measures to ensure that the
population.                                          intended agencies and segments of
the population receive entitled
funds.
11. Activity   Norm-based, supply driven,   Start switching from norm-    Prepare 2002 budget for health
based costing    budgeting system inherited    based to activity/population    and education sectors according
for Health and   from the old system which is  based costing of programs in  to activity-/population-based
Education      not appropriate to prioritize    health and education sectors   costing.
public expenditures.      as pilot covering both
Ministries at the central and   Adopt action plan for improving
the local govemment levels.  the process for the 2003 budget
preparation exercise.
12. Public     No comprehensive Public   Prepare and publish medium-  Put in place mechanism and
investment     Investment Program (PIP).   term Public Investnent   integrate Public Investment
planning       Public investments are not    Program.               Program into the MTBF and
undertaken within the context                        2002 budget, incorporate loans
of an MTEF and are not part                          and grants from international
of the budget.                                       financial institutions and donors
into the budget, and allocate
adequate counterpart funds in
the budget in a timely mnanner.
Continue policy for 2003 budget
planning.
Financial Sector Development
(Objective: Strengthen financial intermediation and confidence in banking system)
13. Banking    Inconsistent enforcement of   Withdraw banking licenses    Transfer the assets of banks to
supervision    prudential regulations, in  for 5 banks that did not  be closed to the Agency of Bank
particular the minimum    comply with the minimum    Liquidation and Credit
capital requirement.      capital requirement.       Collection (ALCO) and start
liquidating banks that cannot be
A number of banks still                              rnerged with others.
operate without sufficient
capital....                                                     ..       _
14. Bank exit   Weak capacity for bank
mechanism     liquidation and management
and disposal of assets of
failed/closed banks.
3



ANNEX I
Attachment
15. Disclosure   No public information about   Require each of the four          Continue to enforce
the largest four banks in the    largest banks to publish its  requirement.
system.                        audited financial statements
within 120 days of its fiscal
year-end.
16. Non-bank    The regulatory framework         Amend and further develop       Enact amendments.
financial        needs to be clarified with      the existing regulatory
institutions,     respect to the prudential      framework for credit
credit           requirements of non-bank        associations and rural credit
associations      financial institutions,        associations. Issue easy-to-
and rural credit  including credit associations    understand guidelines for
and rural credit organizations.  establishment and regulations
of non-bank financial
institutions.
17. Tax          The tax code only allows for   Submit to Parliament             Enact amendments.
treatment of      partial deductibility of loan  amendments to the Tax Code:
banks, and tax    loss provisioning by banks.     * to allow full tax
conduct                                            deductibility of loan loss
The banking system is taxed      provisions for non-standard   Appoint appropriate
on the basis of its net assets   loans;                        Govemment agency to monitor
(including loans) and not on    * to change the basis of the   satisfactory implementation and
the property holdings.           property tax base for banks   provide information to IDA.
from net assets to fixed
Arbitrary freezing of deposits    assets (land and buildings);
by tax authorities without a   |  to preclude tax authorities
court order which in part        without obtaining prior
accounts for the lowest          court order from:
M2/GDP ratio in FSU.               conducting reviews of
customer accounts while
carrying out corporate tax
examinations of the
banks;
-   impose fees and penalties
on client accounts; and/or
freeze clients' or financial
_  institutions' accounts.
18. Collateral    The transaction costs for      Submit to Parliament            Enact amendments.
collateral-based borrowing is   amendments to the Law on
too high. Specifically, the fee  Collateral to:
for transferring the ownership   * replace the 20 percent fee
of the collateral upon default    for transferring the
is 20 percent and this deters    ownership of the collateral
business finance and the         upon borrower's default by
volume of secured                a simplified schedule based
transactions in the economy.     on minimum wages and
averaging no more than 3
The collateral transfer fee is   percent of the value of
not uniform.                     claim;
make it a unified fee for all
l__________________________________  I  ___________________ typ es    of   collateral.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t y p e s   o f  c o ll at e r al.
4



ANNEX I
Attachment
Private Sector Development and Governance
(Objective: facilitate private sector development and strengthen corporate governance)
19. Financial    Widespread tax offsets,   Eliminate tax offsets and   Ensure through the
transparency   directed credits, and payment  directed credits.        Government's shareholder
and            arrears between the large                               position in Bark-i Tajik,
accountability   enterprises. Tax and paynment                         Tajiktelekom, and Tajik Gas:
of key public    arrears between the                                   (i) that by December 2001 the
enterprises and   Government and public                                accounts payable and
avoiding       enterprises.                                            receivables of these enterprises
accumulation of                                                        are to be kept current to no more
new arrears                                                            than 90 days sales equivalent
and settled through cash
mechanisms;
(ii) establish a track record for
these enterprises to be current
starting in March 2002;
(iii) that utility services to public
enterprises (including TADAZ),
and to budgetary institutions are
cut off if not current on
payments.
Allocate in 2002 budget
adequate resources for
budgetary institutions to pay for
_  _  _   _______________ __   . . their utility bills.
20. Auditing    No strategy to adopt IAS.  Require annual LAS audit of   Sign contract for the audit of
and financial                              TADAZ from 2001, Bark-i   financials of TADAZ for the
disclosure                                 Tajik, Tajik Air, and Tajik    year 2000 by December 2001
Telekom from 2002, Tajik    and complete audit.
Rail, and Tajik Gas from
2004, using reputable
====.=________________  intnational audit firms.
21. Business    No systematic survey of    Conduct business conditions   On the basis of survey, adopt
Entry          constraints to business     survey to identify constraints  strategy satisfactory to IDA, to
development.               to new business formation   alleviate constraints to new
and firm growth.           business formation and firm
growth, including licensing
requirements, inspections, and
fees.
22. Farm land   Excessive registration fee for  Issue a decree reducing land   By the end of January 2002,
registration fees privatized farm land, which   registration fee for (dehkan)   have fully functional
and registration  negatively impacts new   farms from $36 to $18.      computerized system for speedy
procedur es    private farm fornation.     Eliminate the need for dekhan  public access to land use right
Registration of dekhan farms  fams to register as corporate  records and maintenance of the
as corporate entities although  entities.              integrty of the records in the
these are not corporations                             State Land Committee both at
resulting in processing fees as                        rayon and state level.
much as US$200.
By January 2002, lower fee for
registration of land use right
I certificates to US$6.
5



ANNEX I
Attachment
23. Farm tax     Complicated system of          Submit to Parliament           Implement pilot of single tax for
agricultural taxes with more    amendments to the Tax Code   private (dekhan) farms in 4
than 10 different types of    simplifying the tax system to   rayons.
taxes, which negatively       a single tax for private
impacts sectoral development  (dehkan) farms thereby
and private investment.       replacing over ten different
taxes, as a pilot project to be
implemented in 4 rayons.
24. Access to    There are strong incentives to  Reduce economic courts fee    Reduce economic court fee to a
courts           avoid the court system in the  on settlement of claims from    unified rate of 2 percent of the
settlement of business disputes.   the current 10 percent of the    value of claim.
A 10 percent fee of the value of   value of claim to about 4
claim is assessed for settlement   percent on average to
of disputes, and the private
sector judges this amount to be    encourage pnvate sector to
excessive.                    utilize courts more in the
settlement of their disputes.
Privatization and Enterprise Sector Reforms
(Objective: facilitate private sector growth and economic opportunities)
25. Privatiza-    No clear privatization                                       Adopt   three-year   strategic
tion strategy for  strategy for about 1 00                                     privatization plan for case-by-
enterprises to   medium and large enterprises                                  case privatization of large-scale
be privatized on  to be privatized on a case by                                and strategic enterprises to be
a case-by-case    case basis, according to                                     privatized, according to agreed
basis.           Privatization Law, nor for the                                terms-of-reference          and
strategic enterprises excluded                               satisfactory to IDA.
from the Law.
26. TADAZ        No strategic options plan for   Conmplete draft Technical     Complete IAS audit of Tadaz
Aluminum         restructuring and possible     Assessment Report, Power       satisfactory to IDA, and using
Plant            privatization of TADAZ.        Sector Report, and Long-term   reputable intemational audit
Prospects aid Restructuring    firmn.
Options Report.
By May 2002, the Govermment
will issue a resolution adopting
a time-bound action plan,
satisfactory to IDA, to achieve
economic viability of TADAZ
on a sustainable basis. An
international consulting firm
will assist with the forrnulation
of the action plan. The plan will
include measures for financial
restructuring and re-
capitalization, technical
rehabilitation and operational
restructuring based on the
TADAZ study conducted with
the support of the IEC and the
outcome of the audit for 2000.
The plan will also include
concrete measures for making
______________ _  _ ._______________________ :____________________ _ :available  technical, m arket and
6



ANNEX I
Attachment
!* ;~j:~>    .-i .'               L
managerial know-how through a
contract with an internationally
reputable firm, which would be
hired according to World Bank
competitive bidding procedures.
27. Corporate   There is no reliable database   Carry out an enterprise survey  Establish annual census of
governance and  on public enterprises covering  to assess the financial and  financial and physical condition
disclosure     their financial condition,   physical condition of        of medium-size and large public
employment, and production.  medium-size and large public  enterprises.
enterpnses.
Many commercial enterprises                              Corporatize by December 31,
under line ministries, which    Create a group under the  2001 all remaining medium and
are not in SPC's portfolio.  Ministry of Economy to monitor  large enterprises that are subject
state enterprises and establish a   to privatization.
No reliable financial,      data base updated quarterly on
production, and employment  their financial condition,   Submit to IDA a progress report
data. No reporting          production, and employment,    on the operational activities of
requirement for public      Require all enterpnses that    the monitoring group, including
enterprises.                are subject to privatization  financial, production, and
through auction to submit    employment data of pubhc
their 2000 accounting balance  enterpn'ses.
sheets to SPC and quarterly
accounting balance sheets in
subsequent years.
28. Privatiza-    Delays in the privatization of  Privatize 280 mediu   and  Privatize 100 additional medium
tion            medium and large enterprises  large enterprises.         and large enterprises with full
transactions of  in part due to high reservation                         effective payment.
medium and      prices set at English auctions.  Adopt a rule that for those
large                                       enterprises, that have not
enterprises (that                           been sold on two consecutive
are not in the                              English auctions, the decision
case-by-case                                to put on Dutch auction will
privatization                               be taken within 4 weeks.
category).
29. Farm Land   Privatization of large state    Issue Presidential Decree  Publish and disseminate through
Reforms         farms is at a virtual standstill.  directing Hukumats to  mass media detailed regulations
No privatization during the    accelerate fam privatization   and step-by-step procedures for
last 6 months and weak      and permit the conversion of   privatization of SCFs and the
institutional capacity to   at least 30 state and collective  role of local authorities.
deepen reforms.             farms (SCFs) into smaller
privately managed farms.
By November 2001, Rayon
level Hukumats to (a) have held
general body (GB) meetings for
at least 60 SCFs for deciding for
the right to use SCF lands
privately; and (b) have issued
approval for 40 SCFs to start the
process of issuing land use
certificates following the
procedures outlined in the LDP.
7



ANNEX I
Attachment
l                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The State An   t eto
l                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~have issued landl use: certificates
l                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to individuals or farm famnily
groups of at least 40 farms by
May 2002.
Increase the budget of SLC by
10 percent for the last six
months of 2001 to enable it to
undertake the tasks indicated
___________ __ ________________________  _______________ _above.
Infrastructure Sector Reform
(Objective: Attract private investment, increase competition, allow Government to focus on its core function,
remove fiscal drai)
30. Tele-       No effective separation of                                 Enact new Teleconmnunications
communi-        commercial, policy and                                     Law establishing an independent
cations Law     regulatory functions of                                    sector regulator, opening up all
telecommunications sector                                 miarket segments to competition
arrangements.                                             and enabling transparent
licensing regime allowing a
Lack of a modern law that                                 multi-operator structure.
would open all market
segments to competition and                               Establish independent
encourage private sector                                  telecommunications sector
involvement in the sector.                                regulator
Lack of transparent licensing
regime for
telecomitrnications operators
3 1. Tele-      No prihatization strategy for   Sign protocol for          Adopt a new
commu-          Tajiktelekom.                development of telecommu-   telecommunications sector
nications sector                             nications sector policy and   policy and strategy for the
strategy and    No effective competition in    strategy for the privatization    privatization of Tajiktelekom
privatization   the sector.                  of Tajiktelekom and enabling  and adopt enabling regulations
regulations for the issuance of  for the issuance of new licenses
new licenses to independent   to independent private operators.
____                               private operators.
32. Air and rail  No separation of commercial  In line with the new        Develop accounting
transport       and regulatory functions of    Transport Law, develop a    methodology for separating the
civic aviation system.       legal framework for          revenues and costs of the three
Tajik Air is the operator and    separating the regulatory and   divisions of Tajik Air, ie. a) air
regulator of the system,     commercial functions of      company, b) airports, and c)
airlines, airports, and      Tajik Air and Tajik Rail.    flight control services.
technical facilities.
Create a Civil Aviation
Tajik Rail is a part of the  Regulatory Department to
Ministry of Transport. The   develop and enforce the
Ministry controls commercial  regulatory framework for
operations.                  civil aviation.
8



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
TAJIKISTAN
Statement of Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Accounts List as of April 30, 2001
16 Records Retrieved - Sorted by Financier, Loan Number
Project                               CCY of       Amount In millions (USD)
Loan/Credit Financier    ID   Description                   Commit  Principal Undisbursed Disbursed   Approval Date  Closing Date
28610     IDA      P043231  IBTA                           SDR           5           0        4.7    16-May-96    31-Dec-00
29170     IDA      P008863 AGRIC REC & SOC                 SDR          50           0       49.4    12-Sep96    30-Sep-97
29460     IDA      P044202 PILOT POV ALLEV                 SDR          12         1.6       10.1     10-Apr-97    31-Dec-01
30220     IDA      P055133 P-C REHABILITATION              SDR          10           0        9.7    16-Dec-97    31-Dec-98
30370     IDA      P053386 P-C RECONSTRUCTION              SDR          10           0        10      29-Jan-98     1-Jan-01
31220     IDA      P047438 SAC I                           SDR          50           0       49.3     30-Jul-98    31-Dec-00
31221     IDA      P047438 SAC I                           SDR          6.7          0        6.4    17-May-99    31-Dec-00
31230     IDA      P059055 EMG FLOOD ASST                  SDR            5        1.7        3.4    27-Aug-98    31-Dec-01
31231     IDA      P059055 EMG FLOOD ASST                  SDR            2        1.9         0      14-Dec-99    31-Dec-01
32140     IDA      P057953 EDUCATION                       SDR            5        1.7        3.1    13-May-99    31-Dec-02
32400     IDA      P049718 FARM PRIV SUPPORT               SDR           20       14.3        4.6    10-Jun-99    30-Dec-04
32401     IDA      P049718 FARM PRIV SUPPORT               SDR          3.1        3.1         0      22-Feb-01    31-Dec-04
32490     IDA      P059755 IBTA II                         SDR          6.7        5.1        1.3     17-Jun-99    30-Jun-04
33240     IDA      P049894 PRIM HEALTH CARE                SDR          5.4        4.3        0.7      7-Mar-00    31-Mar-04
33870     IDA      P058898 RURAL INFRA REHAB               SDR           20       18.7        0.3     22-Jun-00    31-Mar-06
33880     IDA      P067610 LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION   SDR             0.5        0.5         0      22-Jun-00    31-Dec-05



Tsjikistan                             ANNEX n
STATEMENT OF IFC's                          Page 2 of 2
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of April, 2001
IFC Data Warehouse                                                            (Amounts In US Dollar Millions)
IFC Held                   -   IFC Disbursed -
FY Approval     Company             Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Psrtic
1997/98          Nelson Gold       0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
2000             SEF GREG Comp,   0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             SEF Holland        0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98          ZeravshanGold     0.00    1.20    9.11    0.00       0.00    1.20    9.11    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.89    3.20    9.11    0.00      0.30    3.20    9.11    0.00
LAppriv1iiPnd ii,mitmet]
FY Approval     Project Name       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997             Nelson Gold       0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00
2001             SEF Finconsult    0.10    0.05    0.00    0.00
2000             SEF TSB           0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending:          0.10    2.60    0.00    0.00
Note: Values do not reflect off-balance sheet items such as guarantee and risk management products.



ANNEX III
Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992-2000
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .. .. .   . .   .  .    .
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000 4
GDP growth (0/.)                            -29    -16.3   -21.3   -12.4   -16.7         1.7      5.3      3.7     8.3
CPI inflation (%, end period)            1363.8  7343.7       1.1  2131.9    40.5   163.6         3.2    30.1    60.6
Consolidated budget (% of GDP)'
Revenues                                 35.2    37.3       56      17.5    13.1    13.7        12     13.5    13.6
Cash balance                            -30.5   -23.4    -5.4   -11.9    -5.8    -3.3    -3.8    -3.1    -0.6
Foreign trade and balance of payments
Merchandise exports (mn. S)              185      456      559      779      770      746      586      666     792
Merchandise imports (mn. $)              240      639      686      838      786      809      725      693     839
Current account balance (% of GDP)       -18    -30.7   -20.5   -14.6    -6.8    -5.2    -9.3    -3.4    -6.4
External public debt (mn. $)             219      510      731      771      829      803      909      840     725
Gross reserves (mn. $)                     ..       2        1        4       14       30       65       58      87
Exchange rate (Tajik rubles/S, end
period)2
Official                                 415    1,247   3,550       288      334      747      977    1436    2200
Real exchange rate (0/. change)3           ..   1930       -64      156       17        9       18       -9
Monetary statistics
Annual average broad money               30.2    38.9    63.8    11.7        6.4      7.2      5.6      6.6      6.5
(% of GDP)'
Monetary base growth (0/%)              678.6  1483.9   115.9   318.5    139.6   193.5    13.1    20.0    45.4
Average domestic broad money               2       3.1     4.4    19.2    20.3       19.8    21.1    22.4    22.3
velocity                             __II                      II_
LT-D-ue to the diffeTential value of caah and non-cash rubles prior to the introduction of the Tajik ruble in May 1995. fiscal and monetary ratios before and after the
date may not be strictly comparable
2Russian rubles before 1995
' Versus US dollar with increase meaning appreciation
4 PstiTnate



ANNEX IV
Page 1
Tajikistan at a glance                                                            17/5/2001
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low-
Tajlkistan     Asia  Income       Development dlamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (nWions)                         6.2      475      2.417                Life expectancy
GNPpercapita(Atk  niethod, USS)                      170      2,150      410
GNP (Atlas nwifod, USS bdlons)                        1.1     1,022      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        1.6       0.1       1.9     GN
Labor force(9)                                        2.5       0.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                   ~~~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capit9                      enrolimrnt
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  82
Urban population (% of total population)              27        67        31
Life expncy at birth (yars)                           68        69        60
Infnt mortality (per 1,000 Nve bkths)                 30        22        77
Child malnutrition (X odchDrJen under 5)               ..        8        43                Access to safe water
Acces to improved water source (% odpopulatbn)        69                  64
Illiteracy (X odpopulation age 15+)                    1         3        39
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age populatlon)  95        100       96                  Taklsten
Mabl                                                97        101      102                  Lowd ncomegroup
Female                                              94        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1N98       1996     1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billIons at offk/al exchange rate)           2.6       1.3       1.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                        29.3       8.7       8.6                     Trade
Exporls of goods and services/GDP                    35.9      49.5      66.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           16.4      40.4       7.1
Gross national savings/GOP                           36.4      -0.5       5.3
Current account balance/GP                                     -9.2      -3.3
Interest papntsGOP                            .         .       1.5       1.8     Domestic                    i nvestmnent
Total debUGP                                                   82.0      855      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                     12.8      12.0
Present value of deb/GOP                                       66.3      59.5
Present value of debtexports                                  133.7      89.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average anual growth)
GDP                                         -9.0      5.3       3.7       5.8                  Ta,iklstan
GNP per capita                              -9.4      2.7       1.3       4.1                  Low-Incovre group
Exports of goods and services                9.2   -13.4       11.5       8.8
STRUCTURE of th- ECONOMY
(% Of GOP)                                 1979    1989       1998      1999          GDP and Industry Growth (1%)
(% o{ GDP)                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
Agricuiture                                          32.1      22.1      18.7
Industry                                             36.2      22.2      24.6      o-
Manufacturing                                                 12.5     10.7       ,                     9       7    9s   so
Services                                             31.8      55.8      56.7    .0
Private consumption                                  74.9      90.9      83.0
General government consumption                        8.7       9.5       9.9      0          GDP      Industil output
Imports of goods and services                        48.7      58.6      67.7
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(aVOMge annual grovt)
Agriculture                                          -8.1       6.3       3.8    40
Industry                                            -16.1       8.2       5.0
Manufacturing                                                                   20- . 0
Services                                       ..
Private consumption                                                                  C .0
General govemment consumption                       -10.7     -16.2       8.1
Gross domestic investment                                   ..  -20
Imports of goods and services                        -0.1       -5.6     -3.7           -     Exports   -    Imports
Gross national product                              -10.2       4.3       3.0 
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNACE
1979    1 8        1906     19S       Inflation (%)
Domestic price
(% change)                                                                        2,500
Consumer prices                                ..       ..       3.2     30.1    2.000
Implicit GDP defator                            .      7.3      87.8     26.5    'o00 /
1.000
Government finnce                                                                  SWc
(% of GDP, Inckds cunent grants)                                                     0  /      -
Cufent revenue                                 ..       ..      12.0     13.5         94    S5    05    97    S8    go
Cufrent budget balance                         ..       ..      *1.3      0.3               -GDP detor    e  CF
Overall surplus/deft                           ..       ..      43.8     -3.1
TRADE
(USS                                        1979    19W/       1908      189       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports fob)                              .       ..      586       666     1,000
AJuminum                                     ..       ..       234      264
Cottonfiber                                  ..       ..       112       93       7
Manufactures                                  .        ..       41       48
Tcotal imports (fob)                                            725       693      Soo
Capitai goods                                                  253       45        a
Export price index (1995 100)                  .        ..       73        75           93  94  ff  98  97  98  so
Import price index (1995.100)                  ..       ..       91        86                OExpor04      flimrnpot
Terms of trade (1995-100)                      ..       ..       81        87    _                    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ nmiloins)                              19         8S 19W  1998      1999      Current account balance to GP (#)
Exports o goods and servces                    ..       ..      646       720      0 . .
Imports of goods and serces                              .      765       736          53 94 f
Resource balance                               ..       ..     -119       -16
Net income                                     .        ..       -7       -55      -_
Net current Iransfers                          ..       .        57        35
Current account balance                        ..       ..     -120       .36     -10
Financing ritem (net)                          ..       ..      156        28
Changes In net reserves                        ..       ..      -36         8     -15
Mtemo:                                                                            ___________________
Reserves Including gold (USS m'ilons)           .       .        65        58
Exchange rate 'ocaLVUSS, annual average)                        786    1,237
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1899
(USS milions)                                                                      ComposItIon of 1i9  debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..       ..     1069     1,043
IBRD                                         ..       ..        0         0
IDA                                          ..       ..       92       126                G 147        B: 126
Total det service                                                 80       87                                    C: 103
IBRO                                         a.       .                   0C:3
IDA                                          ..      ..         0         1
F: 163
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                                  D: 1s
Official granis                              ..       ..       57        35
Official creditrs                            ..       ..        16      -25
Private creditors                            ..       ..      -21       -13
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..       24        21
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..        0         0                          E: 4S6
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       ..       65        40      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..       38        36      B-IDA    D - Othr multilateral  F - Priate
Principal repayments                         ..       ..        0         0      c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Ne fows                                      ..       ..       38        36                                       ----A
Interest payments                            ..       ..        0         1
Net transfers                                ..       ..       38        35
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Europe and Central Asia                                                 swam



ANNEX V
Tajikistan - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual    Estimate      Projection
1998  1999  2000  2001   2002   2003  2004  2005
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (US$m) a/      1213  1230  1231 1125.6 1183.3 1246.2 1305.4 1374.3
Net disbursements (US$m)                            -1.4   5.0   11.0    6.9   13.4   19.2  18.5  29.2
Total debt service due after rescheduling (TDS) a/  66.0  48.0   62.0   81.2  92.1   92.7  92.2  92.2
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS b/                                        290   308   268   221    212   205    197   189
TDO/GDP                                            93   119   131    108    104       97    91    85
TDS(after rescheduling)/XGS                         16    12    13    16    17    15    14    13
IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA TDO (US$m)                                     90   126    153    192   235    277    320   345
IDA DS/public DS                                   1.4   2.2    1.1    1.1    1.3    1.7   1.9   2.4
IDA DSDXGS                                         0.1   0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2
a! Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteeda nd use of IMF credits.
b/ Exports of goods and services excluding alumina and electricity.



ANNEX VI
TAJIKISTAN - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:         7 months
2. Prepared by:                   Government of Tajikistan with the assistance of
IDA staff.
3. Preparation Mission:           February 2001
4. Appraisal Mission:             April 2001
5. Negotiations                   May 2001
6. Planned Board Presentation:    June 2001
7. Planned date of Effectiveness:  July 2001






AZ    STAN  /sV   / 
I                            T                               j                                                                          TAJIKISTAN
\      |  5-tt  To T        orshk.rn   +>      >                ,)TooInhkenort 
\r                                 .      UBKTAN                           *      Selected Cities                                           Roads
2L  P . 49,t )                                                      0     Autonomous Oblast Centers                                 Railroads
T. G~~~~~~~h~~~~f- ~~~To  GCq-
To Go!u oio                               -   -      -   9N~O.  /KTodond  f                          Oblost Center                                   - - -     Rural Districts
/~AR)B   o              *       Khod~t~d                  iKondbom                                      *     National Copital                              ---=   Autonomous Oblast Boundaries
To.z                                                                  .,                                                                                                      Oblast Boundaries"
rODz>iZvL  ,_ W.~t.   f',chkolovsk   / SSIA A   r  >                                                                             --  -        International Boundaries
SV 7NA X  \  Ll  P\-Lt !AS                   r     
UZBEKISTAN                                  io*tJro   '                                                     7A,    ,i .i fohen JO nae d-ffero from that of t,J odo,1sat-o,eioo coente.
J -  .i-  1                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ  RP       72T.Ob 0                                                                              7
E o - N Y ' /\- \_ Tb'                   i                                                                                                                                              C H I N A
2 . \z ' ~~~~~~~AIN!.r 1 AIAd,,JT,a
390                                                                                                                                                                                                                                39  -
AT'                                                                                                                                                                     C     I Karakul'  T. I1I
A \ g ,      'oC   ,.,,C,FAPT!'fJ A                                                     ,' -
<  ,             t              j                                     <7/                     ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 00/  BADAKHSH!AN                           
T.                                    t)V& eLJMAN(sIRNsfX                                                                                                                                          K           STAN
A F G H A N I ST A N                                                                         f                                      ' f  
TT,o maop wor5 p,odocoo o, coo/i  . X7E(SA 
MapL00 Jg 'A  loof, oo,conWo ld                                                                                                                                                                                           -O' i    |,    L-
8nnL Theboundarers colors   0ST                            100             150 KILOoM-TERS O
de[o,cco',o,ncoo Rle Cc A, c,o__________________________                                                                       (      '                                                TURhKMEN STAN    K              N       58>KYRGYT PEP        _
do non ~~~rnpny oc rOe oo,nof          I                          I                                                                                                 .N~A RAII 
7 h W0o50c. 8c nl, booup .;oo                                       50                        I 0MLE                                           P A KIS T AN                     J                          > -,Dushr cbe  IA7w_<         ~           a
rn, ocrny o,Oecrr.a nndorseocrt r-                                                                                                                                               SLAMIC RET                           .&c            /                o "CIAr
________________________                                      __________69____i_      __ _    _  _-                                                                             OF   IRAN                          STFGAN      -i    ,             0



