Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3539 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3539 TJ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 
29, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ALCO" means the Agency of Bank Liquidation and Collection in the 
National Bank of Tajikistan of the Borrower; 
(b)
"Barki-Tajik" means the Barki-Tojik, a joint-stock company established by 
the Resolution of the Government No. 12 on April 19, 1993;
(c)
"Customs Code" means the Customs Code of the Borrower, enacted on 
November 4, 1995 (Law No. 198);
(d)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Financial Control Office" means the Borrower’s audit office in charge of 
auditing the national budget;
(f)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each year;
(g)
"Law on Public Finance" means the Borrower’s budget systems law, setting 
out procedures for administration of government finance;
(h)
"Law on Telecommunication" means the law regulating the telecommunication 
sector of the Borrower;
(i)
"Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises" means state-owned enterprises which 
have 100 or more working spaces as specified in the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 
Page  3
631, dated December 29, 1996;
(j)
"MTEF" means the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, adopted by the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower on March 15, 2001;
(k)
"PIP" means the Public Investment Program  adopted by the Ministry of 
Finance of the Borrower through Order No. 1 of January 8, 2001;
(l)
"Privatization" means the sale of more than 75% of an enterprise’s shares 
or sale of assets through liquidation of the enterprise; for the purpose of this 
definition, sale will only be deemed to have taken place upon the receipt of payment 
for the said shares and assets by the Borrower;
(m)
"TADAZ" means the Tajik Aluminum Plant, state-owned enterprise 
responsible for the production of aluminum;
(n)
"Tajigas" means the Tajigas, a state unitary enterprise, established by 
the Resolution of the Government No. 139 on April 11, 2001;
(o)
"Tajiktelekom" means the Tajiktelekom, a joint-stock company established 
on August 26, 1996; and
(p)
"Treasury Account" means the Treasury Account set out in Treasury Law of 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 19,700,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
Page  4
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken satisfactory to the Association. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in 
respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2011 and ending June 15, 2041.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  5
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
3, Akademic Rajobovkho Street
Dushanbe, 734025
Republic of Tajikistan
Facsimile:
(992-372) 213329
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Sadriddin Akramov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tanju Yurukoglu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
Page  7
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Page  8
1.
The law on the Financial Control Office has been enacted.
2.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing a reform program, 
including: (a) revision of the Customs Code in line with international standards; (b) 
revision of customs procedures and regulations to increase transparency of custom 
transactions; (c) strengthening of the internal audit function of customs 
administration; and (d) the first phase of the modernization of customs administration 
ending on May 31, 2002.
3.
The Law on  Public Finance has been enacted.
4.
The Borrower has: (a) prepared the budget for FY2002 for Ministries of 
Agriculture, Education, Health and Telecommunications of the Borrower, based on the 
MTEF planning circulars and process manuals; (b) integrated the PIP into the medium 
term budget framework and the budget for FY2002; (c) incorporated loans and grants 
from international financial institutions and donors into the budgetary process; (d) 
allocated all counterpart funds in the budget so that all expenditure items are 
funded; and (e) continued preparation of the budget for FY2003 based on the MTEF 
planning circulars and process manuals, integrating the PIP.
5.
The Borrower has: (a) transferred all the assets, from banks to be closed due to 
noncompliance with the minimum capital requirements as set out in the Borrower’s 
banking legislation, to ALCO; and (b) commenced liquidation of assets of those closed 
banks.
6.
The Borrower has amended its Tax Code so as to: (a) allow for full tax 
deductibility of loan loss provisions; (b) tax banks solely on their fixed assets; and 
(c) preclude the tax authorities from arbitrary freezing of deposits and imposing fees 
and penalties on client accounts without court orders.
7.
The Borrower has amended its Law on Collateral in accordance with a methodology 
agreed with the Association so as to: (a) reduce the fee for transferring the 
ownership of the collateral upon borrowers’ default; and (b) unify the amount of fee 
for all types of collateral.
8.
The Borrower has ensured that: (a) the accounts payable and receivables of 
Barki-Tajik, Tajiktelekom and Tajikgas are to be kept current within the 90 days sales 
equivalent and settled through cash mechanisms; (b) utility services to the public, 
public enterprises, including TADAZ, and budgetary institutions, who are not current 
on their payments, are cut off; and (c) resources for the budgetary institutions to 
pay for their utility bills has been allocated for its FY 2002 budget.
9.
The Borrower has: (a) installed functional computerized system for speedy public 
access to, and maintenance of the land use right records in its State Land Committee 
both at rayon and state level; and (b) reduced fees for registration of land use right 
certificate to the equivalent of $6.
10.
The Borrower has adopted a strategic plan for case-by-case Privatization of 
Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises over a three year period.
11.
The Borrower has: (a) appointed an acceptable audit firm for the purpose of the 
audit of TADAZ in accordance with international accounting standards (IAS); (b) 
completed the IAS audit of TADAZ; and (c) issued a resolution adopting an action plan 
for TADAZ, setting forth the following: (i) financial restructuring and 
recapitalization; (ii) technical rehabilitation and operational restructuring; (iii) 
technical, managerial and market know-how through a contract with an international 
standard firm; and (iv) competitive selection procedures, approved by the Association, 
for the above-mentioned contract.
12.
The Borrower has completed Privatization of 100 Medium- and Large- Scale 
Enterprises in addition to 280 Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises already privatized.
13.
The Borrower has caused: (a) the rayon-level administrations to hold general 
body meetings in not less than 60 state and collective farms (SCFs) to resolve the 
distribution of the SCF’s land to private individuals or group of individuals; (b) its 
State Land Committee to issue the land use rights certificates to private individuals 
Page  9
or groups of individuals in not less than 40 SCFs of the 60 SCFs mentioned above; and 
(c) an increase of 10% in the budget of the State Land Committee, covering the last 6 
months of FY2001, to enable the State Land Committee to undertake tasks mentioned in 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
14.
The Law on Telecommunication has been enacted, and the commission on regulation 
for the telecommunication sector has been established.
15.
The Borrower has consolidated the various bank accounts of Borrower’s ministries 
under the Treasury Account.
