Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13279
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2607-UNI)
JUNE 30, 1994
Infrastructure Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                Naira (N)
Appraisal Year Average                         US$l = N 0.547
Intervening Years Average                      US$1 = N 4.783
Completion Year: Average Jan.- Oct. 1993       US$1 = N22.130
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare           =            2.47 acres
1 acre              =            0.405 hectare
1 kilometer (km)    =            0.62 mile
1 liter             =            0.26 US gallon
NIGERIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASG          -      Abia State Government
ASPUB        -      Abia State Public Utility Board
ASWB         -      Abia State Water Board
FGN          -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF          -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMBN         -      Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
FMWH         -      Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ISESA        -      Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
ISG/IMSG     -      Imo State Govenment
LGA          -      Local Government Authority
MLG          -      Imo State Ministry of Local Government
MLSUD        -      Imo State Ministry of Lands, Survey and Urban Development
MWT          -      Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport
NEPA         -      National Electric Power Authority
NSUDP        -      Nigerian States Urban Development Program
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
UDPEC        -      Urban Development Project Executive Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                         June 30, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Second Urban Development Project (Loan 2607-UNI)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Nigeria - Second Urban Development Project
(Loan 2607-UNI)" prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Western Africa Department of the Africa
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. Part II presents an interesting analysis of
selection of beneficiaries and plot pricing, processing of land title documents and construction loans, and
property values before and after the project.
The project focused on capacity building both at federal and local levels, and on demonstration
of a replicable approach to the provision of shelter and related services to low-income populations; three
towns in what was then Imo State were targeted. Project completion was delayed about three years
mainly due to the slow provision of counterpart funding by the Borrower.
Achievements of physical objectives were substantial, with over 90% of the targeted plots
provided, and all community facilities and off-site infrastructure constructed. Cost recovery and other
institutional aspects fell short of expectations. Apart from limited experience gained through the on-the-
job training of entities involved, studies were the main institutional achievement. O&M capacity for
instance was not improved, and this coupled with poor cost recovery gains is likely to endanger the
sustainability of benefits. Progress in the utilization of the serviced plots for house construction had
reached 60% at the time of project completion.
The project results have proven that the chosen approach was not replicable and point to the need
for a greater reliance on the private sector in the large scale provision of shelter. The project outcome
is rated as marginally satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as modest. The sustainability
of project benefits is rated as uncertain.
The PCR is of good quality and provides a candid discussion on the problems faced in this
project. The project may be audited.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
I This docunent has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients onty in the performmnce of
Itheir officiaL duties. Its contents m_y not otherwise be disclosed without Wortd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2607-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
Abbreviations
Preface  ........................................  i
Project Evaluation Summary ........................................   ii
PART I:      Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1. Project Identity ...........................  1
2. Background ...........................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description ..........................  2
4. Project Design and Organization ........................... 2
5. Project Implementation . ........................... 3
6. Project Results ........................... 5
7. Project Sustainability .  ........................... 7
8. IBRD's Performance  ............            ............... 7
9. Borrower's Performance . ........................... 8
10. Bank - Borrower Relations .................... 8
11. Consultants' Services ....................  8
12. Project Documentation and Data .........         ........... 9
PART n:      Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
1. Introduction  ....................  10
2. Project Description and Background  ..................0..  l
3. Project Implementation  ....................  12
4.  Performance  to  Date   ..................................   17
5. Project Benefits ...........................  20
PART m:    Statistical Information
Table 1              Related Bank Loans .22
Table 2              Project Timetable .23
Table 3             Studies .24
Table 4              Physical Execution of the Project Civil Works .25
Table 5              Project Costs .27
Table 6              Project Financing .28
Table 7              Cumulative Loan Disbursements .29
Table 8              Allocation of Loan Proceeds .30
Table 9-a           Direct Benefits of Project .......................  31
Table 9-b            Economic Re-evaluation of the Project .33
Table 10             Use of Bank Resources .34
Table 11             Status of Covenants .36
This docutment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Paige No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1              Organizational and Policy Context of Project .... ....... 40
Annex 2              Project Implementation Schedule ......    ............. 42
Annex 3              Chart of Planned Versus Actual Disbursements ....  ...... 43
Map: IBRD No. 15465



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2607-UNI)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) describes and evaluates the identification,
preparation, appraisal, and implementation of the Second Urban Development Project in Nigeria,
for which Loan 2607-UNI in the amount of US$53.0 million was signed on October 31, 1985.
The loan became effective on April 18, 1986. It was originally scheduled to be closed on
December 31, 1989 but was extended to June 30, 1993 to allow more time for completion of
project-financed components. Ultimately, US$44.7 million were disbursed and US$8.3 million
canceled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infrastructure Division of Western Africa Department, Africa Region. The Bank's contribution to
the report was prepared on the basis of, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreements, Project Agreements, supervision reports, quarterly
progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and Nigerian authorities, internal Bank
memoranda and consultation with Bank staff who served as project officers on the project.
Parts I and Im of the PCR were sent to the Borrower in July 1993 for comment;
subsequently, the Borrower prepared Part II of the PCR.
the Task Manager for this PCR is Mr. Hiroshi Ueno. Messrs. James Wright and Edwin
Lim are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2607-UNI)
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The project was identified in October 1977 at which time it was intended to be a part of a
larger project encompassing urban development in Bauchi as well as three towns in Imo State.
Because of delays in preparation for the Imo part of the proposed project, Bauchi became the
focus of the First Urban Development Project approved by the Bank in November 1979. The
Second Urban Development Project was appraised in 1980 and negotiated in the following year
but the Bank held up the project for three years because of inadequate counterpart funding of
ongoing Bank-financed projects. In June 1985, the project was approved by the Board and a
US$53 million loan became effective in April 1986.
2.    The major objectives of the project were to (i) strengthen, at the Federal level,
Government's capability for policy formulation and program monitoring and evaluation in the
urban sector and extend preparation assistance to the states; (ii) extend to Imo State the
demonstration begun in Bauchi State of a replicable approach to providing shelter and related
services affordable by low-income population; and (iii) build on and strengthen institutional
linkages and capacity in Imo State to carry out future low-income urban development projects,
while improving the local financial resource base.
Implementation Experience
3.    The major component of the project comprised sites and services in the three towns of
Owerri, Aba and Umuahia, all located initially in Imo State but in 1991 two of them became parts
of a new Abia State. On-site infrastructure civil works in these towns, some off-site civil works
and construction of various buildings on the sites were carried out by contractors. The most
serious problem during implementation was inadequate counterpart funding which caused frequent
delays and a lengthy prolongation of project execution.Other principal causes of delay were a land
dispute in Aba which required much time to resolve, a division of Imo State into two new states
(Imo and Abia) which resulted in the establishment of two Project Implementation Units, and high
domestic inflation during the implementation period. A major delay in implementation of power
supply installations on project sites occurred largely because of a theft of power cable from the
sites and subsequent external procurement problems. Off-site infrastructure civil works included a
number of drainage and water supply works. A special problem arose when it was determined that
Aba did not have a reliable water supply system and therefore the project was expanded to include
an off-site Aba emergency water supply works component. In general, the quality of the project
works completed was satisfactory.
4.    Community centers, primary schools, health clinics, tool lending facilities and security
houses were constructed largely by local contractors; the quality of construction was satisfactory.
Many applications for serviced plots were processed and considerable time elapsed before
ownership was established. Some individual owners then applied for mortgage loans from the
FMBN and a portion of these were approved, though applications were processed much more
slowly than had been anticipated. In the field of institution-building, the project financed project



iii
preparation studies and design, several policy studies of major urban problems (including a cost
recovery study) and certain technical assistance. The two policy studies carried out by consultants
were satisfactory as were the preparation studies and design. Some vehicles and equipment were
procured for the Owerri solid waste disposal system.
5.    Overall, the project achieved a substantial part of its objectives while falling somewhat
short of success regarding some goals such as cost recovery and implementation period. The
project created a total of 8,043 serviced plots in the three towns, or 94% of the 8,550 plots in the
plan, out of which 1,200 plots were allocated to traditional and current landowners in Aba as
compensation after a protracted land dispute in Aba. The plots were allocated to beneficiaries in
an upper segment of the low incomes and a lower segment of the middle incomes and to
businesses. Home construction was underway on 5,185 plots of individual owners. A total of
1,080 mortgage loans were extended by FMBN to plot owners as of February 1993, much fewer
than had been planned. The re-evaluated economic rate of return is 20%, slightly lower than the
27% of the staff appraisal report.
Project Sustainability
6.    An important aspect of the project design was that the project would demonstrate a certain
approach to housing development that could subsequently be replicated in future projects. There is
little evidence thus far of additional projects of similar design in Nigeria. As to the sustainability
of the project in the three towns, much depends on future maintenance practices followed by
Local Government Authorities (LGAs); there are some indications that the maintenance of some
newly developed facilities has been inadequate. A strong commitment by LGAs and their
respective state governments to good maintenance will be of fundamental importance to the
sustainability of the project. There is considerable evidence that plot owners are well motivated to
build homes on their plots despite their limited interest in obtaining FMBN mortgage loans.
Lessons Learned
7.    One of the principal lessons learned from the project is that the sites and services
approach to urban development, based on the concept of its replicabiity, is not likely to result in
an adequate pace of urban development to meet the needs of the large and rapidly expanding
population of Nigeria. New approaches mainly relying on the private sector need to be
developed.
8.    Another lesson is that the Bank should make a more careful determination of the future
availability of counterpart funds before it encourages a Government to undertake a major project
with Bank financial assistance.
9.    A third lesson is that counterpart funds would be provided more dependably if the states
authorize counterpart funds to be deducted directly from their statutory allocation from the
Federation Account, rather than depending on states to provide counterpart funds from resources
already at their discretion.
10.   A fourth lesson is that in an inflationary country like Nigeria, the Bank needs to have an
explicit requirement that plot development charges to beneficiaries should be adjusted to the
inflation in order to ensure proper cost recovery.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERJA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2607-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name                 Second Urban Development Project
Loan Number          2607-UNI
Loan Amount          US$53 million
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Nigeria
Sector               Urban
Subsector            Infrastructure
2.    Background
2.1    Nigeria, the largest country in Africa, had a population in 1993 of about 89 million; the
population was increasing at a high rate of 2.9% annually. Among the various states in the
Republic, Imo State in 1984 had a population of nearly six million in an area of 12,700 square
kim, making it one of the most densely populated and urbanized areas in West Africa. In 1991,
this state was divided into two states, a smaller Imo State and a new Abia State. The three largest
towns in the Imo and Abia States are Owerri, the capital of Imo State; Aba, now located in the
State of Abia and the main trading and industrial center of the region; and Umuahia, the capital of
Abia State and an important rail link with the north. The three towns had a sizable shortfall of
low cost housing in 1984 and the Second Urban Development Project aimed to alleviate that
shortage and improve housing condition.
2.2    Responsibility for urban planning and development rests largely with the states. The
Federal Government, however, is also involved in the sector; it provides major urban
infrastructure and formulates national policy for urban development including housing. Moreover,
the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria makes loans directly to individuals as well as to state
development agencies. Further organizational and policy context for the project are summarized
in Annex 1.
2.3    The project was identified in October 1977 at which time it was intended to be a part of a
larger project encompassing urban development in Bauchi as well as three towns in Imo State.
Because of delays in preparation for the Imo part of the proposed project, Bauchi became the
focus of the First Urban Development Project approved by the Bank in November 1979. The
Second Urban Development Project was appraised in 1980 and negotiated in the following year
but the Bank held up the project for three years because of inadequate counterpart funding of
ongoing Bank-financed projects. In June 1985, the project was approved by the Board and a
US$53 million loan became effective in April 1986.



2
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Proiect Objectives. The major objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen, at the
Federal level, Government's capability for policy formulation and program monitoring and
evaluation in the urban sector and extend project preparation assistance to the states; (ii) extend to
Imo State the demonstration begun in Bauchi State of a replicable approach to providing shelter
and related services affordable by the low-income population; and (iii) build on and strengthen
institutional linkages and capacity in Imo State to carry out future low-income urban development
projects, while improving the local financial resources base.
3.2    Description, The original project components were:
(i)    upgrading components in Owerri and Abia: infrastructure and sanitation
improvements including flood control and storm drainage, improved roads, water
supply and electricity;
(ii)   land development or site and services component: development of some 8,500
plots for residential, mixed and small-scale industrial use in Owerri, Aba and
Umuahia for low-income groups; plots will be serviced with the full range of
urban infrastructure and utilities; community facilities such as schools, health
clinics and community centers will also be constructed;
(iii)   home construction and improvement loans: the loans will be available to about
6,400 households in the sites and services area;
(iv)   urban services and institutional development: technical assistance and equipment
will be provided to Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport; technical
assistance will be provided to strengthen management capabilities of local
governments of the three project towns; maintenance and solid waste equipment
will be provided to the three project towns; and a training expert will be provided
to conduct courses for local government staff; in addition, other training programs
would be provided or enhanced in local technical colleges; and
(v)    studies and consulting services: FMBN's role in program monitoring, evaluation
and development will be strengthened.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.1    At the request of the Government of Nigeria, a World Bank mission visited Imo State in
1977 where officials had expressed strong interest in having such an urban project. A preparation
study for the Imo project was completed in September 1980; it was well prepared.
4.2    The basic project design, developed in a cooperative effort of government staff and Bank
staff with support of consultants, consisted of sites and services development, funding of mortgage
loans for home construction and a small component of upgrading. The site and services part of
the project was focussed on the creation of plots serviced by streets, water supply, electricity,
sanitation; ancillary project features were off-site infrastructure, social and community facilities,
institution building and vehicles and equipment for sanitation systems. Home construction was
the responsibility of the plot owner. Some of the plots created were designated for business



3
development and were intended to stimulate employment in the communities. Provision was made
for cost recovery of site and services costs from beneficiaries but the design did not provide a
mechanism for handling large cost increases during a period of high inflation.
4.3    Execution of the project was organized as follows: A Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of Works and Transport of Imo State was to implement the sites and services part of the
project utilizing the services of other Imo State organizational entities and engaging contractors
and consultants. The FMBN was to make sub-loans to Imo State out of proceeds of the World
Bank loan for infrastructure construction. The FMBN was to carry out the mortgage loan
operation, making available such loans directly to individuals who qualified as plot owners.
Construction of houses on the plots was to be carried out by the plot owners with whatever help
they could arrange. Successful implementation required a great deal of cooperation among a large
number of organizational entities of both State and Federal levels of Government.
4.4   The Bank established two conditions for loan negotiations, namely, that the tender
documents be ready for the first year of civil works and that the Director of the Project
Implementation Unit be appointed. These conditions were satisfied and negotiation of the project
loan took place in June 1981 at which time a number of relatively minor changes were agreed. A
few months later, the Bank informed the Government that it would not proceed further with the
project until ample local funds were provided for two ongoing Bank-financed projects for which
the Bank had suspended disbursements because of substantial shortages of counterpart funding. It
was not until May 1984 that the local funding issue was resolved and the Bank renegotiated the
loan with the Nigerian Government. The Bank's Board approved the project on July 25, 1985.
J-.    Proiect ImDlementation
5.1    Loan Agreement Signing and Effectiveness. The loan agreement was signed on October
31, 1985 and became effective April 18, 1986, about 9 months after Board approval. The reason
for this delay was that the Government took several months to execute the First and Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and submit the required legal opinion to the Bank.
5.2    Civil Works: On-site Infrastructure. The plan for project implementation and actual
timing of execution are shown in Table 2 and Annex 2. A single contractor was awarded a
contract to undertake the on-site infrastructure in the three towns of Owerri, Aba and Umuahia;
construction began in January 1985 (see Table 4). The major problem in project implementation
was the frequent shortages in counterpart funds from the state governments. As a consequence,
there were many delayed payments to contractors and consultants which caused delays in works
and prolongation of project execution. The problem was aggravated by severe cost increases
during years of rapid inflation. Other serious problems which caused delays in Aba works were
(1) certain local citizens (indigenous) in the area claimed part of the project land and (2) the
discovery that the Aba site did not have a reliable water supply system and, consequently,
occupancy of Aba plots was delayed until an adequate water supply was provided. The roads and
drains in all three towns were handed over to LGAs in 1991.
5.3    The installation of electrical facilities for power supply in the three towns, was seriously
delayed by theft of power cables on the sites. Further delays in power installations were caused
by problems with procurement of the electrical equipment. As a result of late delivery of the
equipment, this component was one of the principal remaining works to be completed in the final
months of project execution.



4
5.4    Civil Works: Off-site Infrastructure. One of the most important off-site works was the
Aba Emergency Water Supply which was not part of the original project as appraised but in
December 1987 found necessary to alleviate an anticipated shortage of water at the Aba site.
During implementation of these added works, inadequate counterpart funding caused many delays
as contractors and consultants complained often about slow payments. A serious delay arose when
the contractor was uncertain as to whether an elevated water tank included in the works should be
constructed of steel or concrete; the issue was not resolved until February 1992.
5.5    Technical and budgetary problems delayed the selection of a contractor for off-site
drainage works in Owerri but work was commenced in July 1990. In addition to the difficulties
caused by slow release of counterpart funds, a major implementation problem was the poor
quality of pipes provided by a local supplier; considerable delay occurred before the contractor
himself undertook to produce the pipes required. Other off-site infrastructure works in Umuahia
and Owerri, as well as upgrading works in Owerri were carried out satisfactorily.
5.6    Community Facilities. For the most part, community centers, primary schools, health
clinics, tool lending facilities and security houses were constructed by small, local contractors.
Some of these structures were completed by the end of 1990. The contractors were adversely
affected by slow payments from the state govermnents and by sharp increases in cost due to
inflation. Despite these, community facilities were completed successfully and many of them are
already in use.
5.7    Home Construction and Improvement Loans. Prior to submitting to FMBN applications
for mortgage loans, a time-consuming process was required to establish ownership of the plot.
This slow process in both Imo and Abia States resulted in long delays in filing applications for
mortgage loans. Moreover, within the FMBN the processing of applications was also slow
because of shortages of trained or experienced staff. Other factors explaining the low take-up rate
of mortgage loans were (1) the small size of the loans; (2) the perception that the interest cost of
the mortgage loans was too high (even though it was a nominal rate of about 12% per annum);
and (3) the inclination of some plot owners to avoid the lengthy process involved in obtaining a
loan. A considerable number of plot owners were able to build houses without obtaining loans
from the FMBN.
5.8   Institution Building. A number of studies (see Table 3) undertaken by consultants, and
financed under the project, contributed to the strengthening of institutions responsible for planning
and development in the urban sector and for carrying out operation and maintenance of
infrastructure facilities. These studies included (1) feasibility studies and design of various
infrastructure components of the project: and (2) studies of cost recovery, solid waste
management and maintenance and a minimarlket and landscaping. For the most part, these studies
were carried out satisfactorily. Most of study results were implemented, but results from the cost
recovery study were not implemented because of political considerations.
5.9    Despite obvious needs for better skills in various organizations and frequent reminders
from Bank supervision missions concerning training needs, state officials tended to ignore the
training part of the project during most of the implementation period. In 1991 and 1992, staff of
the Project Implementation Units were trained on desk top computers for project accounting and
management information systems. Some training of personnel for operation of solid waste
vehicles and equipment were successfully conducted in 1993. Some PIU officials attended
procurement disbursement seminars by the World Bank.



5
5.10   Vehicles and Equipment. Notwithstanding the poor quality of the study of solid waste
management and maintenance, it provided the basis for the specification of vehicle and equipment
requirements in this field. Imo State placed orders to meet these needs in December 1992 and
deliveries were made early in 1993. Because of the lack of counterpart funds, Abia State decided
against procurement of vehicles and equipment for solid waste disposal systems.
5.11   Extenio. As a consequence of serious delays in implementation of the project, the
closing date of the loan was extended four times. The principal caues of these delays were: (1)
inadequate counterpart funding combined with high inflation which resulted in stoppage of nearly
all civil works in 1987 and revision of all existing contracts, and (2) bifurcation of Imo State into
new Imo and Abia States and the creation of two new Project Implementation Units. Originally
the closing date was fixed at December 31, 1989; the Bank agreed to an extension of that closing
date subject to five conditions, particularly the provision of adequate local funding. The
conditions were substantially met and a year extension was approved. Similarly, in 1990 and
1991, the Bank agreed to further extensions. In late 1992, a request was received for an unusual
fourth extension and the Bank agreed to extend the closing to June 30, 1993 but the Bank
specified that it would finance only the amount necessary to complete signed contracts and that the
balance of the loan would be canceled as of December 31, 1992.
6.    Project Results
6.1    Achievement of Project Objectives. The project was completed and the loan was closed
on June 30, 1993. The project achieved a substantial part of its objectives while falling somewhat
short of success regarding some goals. A primary objective of the project was to create a total of
8,550 services plots and the project achieved 94% of that total. Home construction on the plots
was active despite the limited amount of mortgage loans extended. Off-site infrastructure works
exceeded the original objectives in that the scope of the project was expanded to include
emergency water supply workls in Aba. Community facilities were developed more or less as
planned. The site and services approach to urban development was effectively established in the
two states of Imo and Abia.Urban development institutions were strengthened under the project
based on technical assistance, studies and training activities. The capacity of the two states to
develop low-income housing was enhanced.
6.2   Physical Results. A total of 8,043 serviced plots were created in the project, out of which
6,843 plots were allocated to the target beneficiaries and private businesses, including 3,447 in
Owerri, 2,117 in Aba and 1,279 in Umuahia. These numbers were reasonably close to appraisal
targets for Owerri and Umuahia but fell short in Aba because of a land dispute, as already
discussed. To solve the land dispute, a total of 1,200 plots were reserved for traditional land
owners and current land owners (see notes on Table 9-a). Home construction in October 1992
had been initiated on 5,185 plots, including 2,857 in Owerri, 1,263 in Aba and 1,065 in
Umuahia. Despite the fact that only 1,080 mortgage loans were extended to plot owners, home
construction was very active.
6.3   Project CostsL 'he total project cost, as indicated in Table 5, was US$51.7 million which
is 61 % of the appraisal estimate of US$85 million. Severe inflation during project execution made
it necessary to make many adjustments in contract amounts for both contractors and consultants.
Some of the additional acal costs reflect enlargement in the scope of work. The cost of the civil
works component of the project was US$41.2 million or 91% of the appraisal estimate of
US$45.4 million.



6
6.4   Project Financing. The original plan for project financing along with the actual project
financing are shown in Table 6. As indicated in that table, the actual contributions of the
financing agencies involved, compared with their planned contributions, differed in several
respects. First, the Bank's US$44.7 million contribution to the financing of the project was 84%
of the US$53.0 million in the appraisal plan. Second, the Federal Government's contribution of
US$2.1 million was actually only about one-tenth that envisaged at appraisal. Finally, the portion
of total financing contributed by State Governments, that is US$4.9 million, was about 45 % of
the amount originally estimated. The sharp differences between the financing plan in the
appraisal and the actual financing is partly explained by the substantial changes in exchange rates
that occurred between 1980 and 1993.
6.5    Disbursements, Loan disbursements, as shown in Table 7, began in FY1986. Originally,
the loan was to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1990 but actual disbursements on that date were
only 31% of the US$53 million Bank loan. On December 31, 1992, US$8.3 million of the loan
was canceled. By June 30, 1993, when the loan was closed, 76% of the original loan had been
disbursed and, after the final disbursement was made on November 15, 1993, the total
disbursement of US$44.7 million represented 84% of the original loan. The major reason for
delayed disbursements was the frequent shortage in counterpart funds released by Imo and Abia
State Governments for the project. Actions taken to stimulate disbursements were the creation of a
Special Account and an increase in the disbursement rate for FMBN home construction and
improvement loans from 40% to 80%.
6.6    Allocation of Loan Proceeds. Proceeds of the Bank loan, as finally realized when all
disbursements were completed on November 9, 1993, are shown in Table 8. The final amounts
differed substantially from the original plan but more roughly comparable to the amounts in a
revision of October 4, 1992.
6.7   Economic Re-evaluation. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the project would benefit
some 87,000 people, of which an estimated 80% would have incomes below the relative urban
poverty threshold. It was estimated that the land development and infrastructure improvement
components would yield an economic rate of return of 27%. It is estimated that about 74,000
people will benefit from the project after completion of all homes and industrial shops. Based on
incremental property values with the project as detailed in Table 9-b, the re-evaluated economic
rate of return is estimated at 20%.
6.8   Environmental Impact. The project had various favorable environmental impacts in the
three affected towns. Drainage facilities alleviated a serious problem of flooding, particularly in
Owerri and Aba. Water supply systems were provided in all three towns and an off-site
emergency water supply component relieved a very serious water supply problem in Aba. Solid
waste disposal systems were studied and, in Owerri, equipment and vehicles were procured to
help solve a waste disposal problem. Various community facilities contribute significantly to
public health and safety in the communities developed. Storm drainage, water supply and refuse
collection points were upgraded for crowded village cores in Owerri.
6.9   Employment Creation: In total, 765 plots were developed for commercial and industrial
uses in three Sites and Services areas. These plots are estimated to create about 2,400 jobs.



7
7.    Project Sustainabily
7.1    An important aspect of the project design was that the project would demonstrate a certain
approach to housing development, particularly housing for low-income population, and that such
development would subsequently be replicated in future projects. Unfortunately, there is little
evidence of additional projects of similar design in Nigeria. While urban feasibility studies for
such projects in several other states were undertaken with financing under the First Urban
Development Project, these efforts have not led to actual projects in those states. Thus there is
some doubt about the replicability of the project approach which raises doubts about the
sustainability of the urban development strategy adopted.
7.2    The sustainability of the facilities built under the project depends to a substantial degree
on the maintenance practices followed by the local governments responsible for operation and
maintenance of the facilities developed. During recent years, there have been a number of
disturbing complaints in several of the Bank's supervision reports of inadequate maintenance of
facilities handed over to LGAs. Moreover, one of the shortcomings in the training field has been
the delayed and insufficient training carried out for maintenance activities. Cost recovery also
affects project sustainability and this feature of the project was not really successful.
7.3    A continuing and strong commitment in support of the project by State officials is an
important factor in the sustainability of the project since state support of LGAs has an important
influence on the LGAs that operate the new facilities. During project implementation, the frequent
deficiencies in counterpart funds provided by Imo and Abia States leads one to question the
States' degree of commitment to the project. Various project studies and some training, however,
have strengthened certain institutions and contributed to greater effectiveness of staff. The
momentum of this effort should result in further development of institutions in the urban field.
8.    IBRD's Performance
8.1   The Bank sent three preparation missions to Nigeria between the start of the consultant
study in July 1979 and project appraisal in September 1980. This was a sufficient number of Bank
missions during this period. Following negotiations in July 1981, the Bank discontinued further
processing of the proposed project loan because of the failure of the Government to provide the
required counterpart funding for two on-going projects. There was ample justification for the
Bank to hold up processing of the project until 1984.
8.2    As indicated in Table 10, the Bank sent 19 missions to Nigeria for supervision of the
project, the first being in November 1985. No supervision mission was sent in 1986; one might
have expected such a mission soon after the loan became effective in April 1986. Subsequently, at
least two supervision missions were in the field per year throughout the long period of
implementation. In addition to the full supervision missions, for which complete reports were
prepared, a civil engineer on the staff of the Bank's Resident Mission supervised the project a
number of times to good advantage. Overall, the project was well supervised by Bank staff.
Moreover, the supervision was conducted efficiently as indicated by a high ratio of loan
disbursement per staff week of supervision.
8.3    The principal lessons learned in the project are that: (1) the sites and services approach to
urban development, based on the concept of replicability, is not likely to result in an adequate
pace of urban development to meet the needs of the large and rapidly expanding population of



8
Nigeria; (2) the Bank should make a more careful determination of the future availability of
counterpart funding before it encourages a Government to undertake a project with Bank
financial assistance, and (3) In specifying project financing procedures, rather than have a state
provide countepart funds directly to a project, a more effective means of securing such funds is
to arrange that they be deducted, at the Federal level, from amounts due to the state as statutory
allocations from the Federal Government.
8.4    A number of Bank-financed projects worldwide in the urban sector, including the Second
Urban Development Project in Nigeria, have been based on the sites and services concept with
mortgage loan assistance to individual plot owners. Recently, the World Bank has moved toward
the strategy of encouraging governments to adopt policies that enable housing markets to work
more effectively. While past housing projects have achieved some physical expansion of housing
in developing countries, the results have been modest and, in terms of cost recovery from
beneficiaries, have been disappointing; also, there has been very little evidence of replicability of
housing projects based on site and services concepts. In Nigeria, the limitations of past projects in
achieving goals of replicability and cost recovery suggest that the government should consider
concentrating on actions that will enable housing markets to work more effectively.
9.    Borrower's Performane
9.1   The performance of the Borrower was less than satisfactory primarily because of local
funding inadequacies and consequent long delays in project implementation, although the quality
of works ultimately completed was good. The FMBN contributed to the problem in that it was
slow in processing funds originating with the World Bank and made available to the States
through the FMBN. The need to provide sufficient counterpart funds for a project is an important
lesson from the project experience. The FMBN was not quick enough in processing mortgage
loans for individual plot owners.
9.2   The division of Imo State into two states led to the establishment of a second PIU,
reallocation of debts and assets between the two PIUs and the new states, changes in contract
parties, additional staffing and new procedures which, in turn, caused substantial delays in project
implementation.
9.3   The status of the Borrower's compliance with loan covenants, as shown in Table 11, is
generally fair to good although many of the original dates governing certain actions were revised
a number of times during the long implementation period.
10.   Bank - Borrower Relations
10.1  The Bank and the Borrower began and concluded the Second Urban Development Project
on good terms, notwithstanding the need to deal with a number of serious problems.
11.   Consultants' Services
11.1  Consultancy provided under the project for preparation studies and design and for
supervision of construction was of good quality. Technical assistance and studies were performed
satisfactorily except that the consultant in the case of the waste management study failed to take
into account Bank comments on the draft report.



9
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1   The legal documents were sufficiently clear and specific for effective implementation of
the project. The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the Bank and the
Borrower during implementation. Supervision reports, quarterly progress reports of the Borrower
and other data in project files were adequate for the purposes of preparing this PCR.



10
PART II: PROJECT PREVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This part was prepared by the Borrower. Only few headings were added and typographic
niistakes were corrected.
1. Introduction
This report summarizes the views of the Borrower, represented by the Federal Ministry of
Works and Housing (FMWH), Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), Imo State
Govermnent (ISG) and Abia State Government (ASG). The report is coordinated by the FMBN
as that agency charged with project supervision as well as the on-lending and cost recovery for
the World Bank loan. The views expressed in this part II of the Project Completion Report
(PCR) are essentially supplemental to part I to highlight:
-     the difficulties of the borrower in project implementation,
-     achievements vis-a-vis the original objectives, and
-     lessons learned in the execution of the project.
2. Project Description and Background
The Second Urban Project was in the context of the Nigerian States Urban Development
Program (NSUDP) which was evolved in 1977 with the assistance of the World Bank (WB). The
NSUDP was to demonstrate the applicability of low cost concepts of housing services especially
for groups that had been sidelined by the past housing programs in Nigeria. The seven new states
created in 1976 and Lagos State were to be the initial focus, while pilot schemes were to be in
Bauchi and Imo States.
2.1    First Urban Proiect in Bauchi and Second Urban Project in Imo. The planning of Bauchi
project started in 1979 and was completed successfully in 1986 with WB assistance through Loan
1767-UNI. Although the planning of Imo project also commenced in 1979 and was appraised for
WB funding in 1980, its implementation could not commence until 1986.
2.2   Project Objectives: The main objectives of the project were to:
-     continue strengthening institutions charged with urban policy formulation,
implementation and management, and
-     provide housing and related services to low income earners at an affordable cost
to ensure cost recovery and project replicability.
2.3   Project Components: The main components of the project as appraised for funding were:
-     upgrading of five traditional village cores in Owerri and the Ndiegoro flooding
area of Aba;
-     development of 8,550 serviced plots with facilities in Owerri (3650), Aba (3650)
and Umuahia (1250);



11
-     provision of home improvement loans to property owners of the
upgrading area and home construction loans (HCL) to plot
allottees of new sites; loans between N3,000 and N6,500 were to
be provided for about 75% of the allottees, while improvement
loans of between N500 and N 1,000 were to be provided for those
of the upgrading areas;
-     technical assistance for institutional development at state and local levels,
maintenance and supply of solid waste equipment for local government of each
project town, as well as training;
-     a side component was to be the establishment of a Project
Implementation Review and Supervision Unit (PIRSU) in the
FMWH to reinforce sector coordination;
-     funding assistance for FMBN for urban policy and project preparation studies and
short term consulting services to review and analyze urban and housing sector
issues.
2.4   Proiect Funding  The project cost was estimated in 1985 prices and was to be funded as:
N M          US$ M
World Bank                 39.8         53.0          62.4%
FGN/FMBN                   15.8         21.1          24.8%
IMSG                       8..21                      12.8%
The prevailing exchange rate when the funding arrangement was agreed was N 1.00 to US$1.12.
World Bank funding was to cover:
-     80% of on and off-site civil works as well as upgrading;
-     50% of Public/Community facilities/buildings;
-     40% of Home Construction/Improvement loans (this was later revised to 80%);
-      100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures on Urban Sector Studies;
-      100% of both foreign and local costs on specialist services, design and project
supervision by ISG/PIU;
-      100% of foreign and 70% of local costs for PIU start-up expenses, solid waste
vehicles and equipment with spare parts.
The FGN contribution of N 15.7 M was to be provided as loan to FMBN to be relent to selected
beneficiaries for home construction and improvement loans. The IMSG contribution was to cover
the remaining local costs of the project.
2.5   Project Completion Plan: The project was scheduled for completion by December 31,
1989.



12
3. Project Implementation
3.1    Feasibility Studies and Contract Documents. Project feasibility studies were executed by
an internationally recruited consulting firm which was later contracted to prepare the Detailed
Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents. Project appraisal was done by the WB, FMWH
and FMBN in September 1980. All contract documents were completed in January 1981.
3.2    Loan Effectiveness. Loan negotiation was in June 1981 when conditions for loan
effectiveness were agreed to include:
-     ratification of the First and Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements respectively
between FGN and FMBN and FMBN and IMSG;
-     setting up of a PIU to be headed by a Director; the PIU was to operate its own
Bank Account separately from the unit's supervising ministry.
Differences in goals and priorities of Federal and Imo State Governments between 1981 and 1984,
however, contributed to delays in meeting the conditions for loan effectiveness. In approving the
loan terms, the Federal Government (FGN) decided not to subsidize the onlending to ISG,
whereas ISG preferred a subsidy as was granted by FGN on the on-lending of Loan 1767-UNI.
In consequence, FMBN was to onlend the WB funds to ISG at the WB variable interest rate,
determined every semester; onlending to the states was to be in local currency, converted at the
operative rate of exchange at time of withdrawals. The delays necessitated a renegotiation of the
loan in 1985. For the renegotiation, the WB insisted on receiving assurances from ISG that the
WB-assisted Agricultural Development Project in the state would be adequately funded; it took the
state some time to meet this condition. The establishment of the PIRSU was, however,
considered unnecessary; this was in view of the existing arrangement within the FMWH for sector
management which was considered adequate. The loan eventually became effective in 1986.
3.3    Civil Works
3.3.1 On-Site Civil Works: Roads and drainage works in the three project towns were
executed by an international contractor that had the lowest evaluated bids in 1985. Standard of
works was satisfactory but the low profile design standards had led to additional works. A lot of
the planned earth roads were seal-coated while a number of open drains were changed to concrete
ones in view of the fragility of the soils and heavy rainfall pattern in the three project towns. The
water reticulation for the three towns were fully implemented and tested: water is already flowing
in Owerri and Umuahia Sites, while connection of the Aba Site with the main town water is yet to
be completed. The delayed execution of electrical contract was due to a number of factors.
When the equipment and materials were available locally the state did not provide the necessary
counterpart funds. A decision to import was not also made timely and when made, the suppliers
extended supply time by some 9 months. The contract was therefore rescheduled for completion
by December 31, 1993.
3.3.2 Off-Site Civil Works: The Owerri Off-Site Drainage that was originally awarded to a
local contractor had to be re-awarded after the first contractor abandoned the project as a result of
a design defect. A redesign was made which increased the estimated cost from N.3m to
N22.9m. The Aba Off-Site drainage that collects on-site storm water to the Aba river was
successfully completed. The major problem after implementation is lack of maintenance by the
Aba local government. An emergency water improvement scheme for Aba town has to be



13
included in the project since the planned major water scheme for Aba was not completed. The
emergency water scheme is to guarantee a regular flow to the project Site in Aba. The
improvement has been completed. The Umuahia Off-Site elevated water tank was completed and
the initial problem of not getting water from Umuahia main water scheme had been resolved.
3.3.3 Upgrading: Improvement of infrastructure in the five traditional village cores in Owerri
was the first component of the project to be completed. However, the refuse collection points
built had to be abandoned as uncollected refuse overspilled to block the drains. As against
communal septic tanks, individual septic tanks were eventually reverted to for ease of
maintenance. Residents turned down credit facilities from FMBN because they could not undergo
the rigor of obtaining titles for their properties and were not prepared to mortgage properties
transferred to them by parents. The study of the flooding in the Ndiegoro area of Aba could not
be undertaken in the project because the Anambra/Imo River Basin Authority was already
packaging an improvement program for the area.
3.3.4 Public Facilities: All the building projects were completed, handed over to relevant local
governments and in use. The standard of works is satisfactory. A major problem is lack of post
implementation capability by the relevant local governments.
3.3.5 Payment to some Contractors: At the completion of the project, resolved protracted
contractual financial obligations were still unsettled
3.4    Home Construction and ImDrovement Loans Proszram
3.4.1 Selection of Beneficiaries: The first step in home loan processing was the selection of
beneficiaries. Eligibility criteria were:
-     Household incomes of between N 1,800 and N4, 100 per anum in 1984 prices;
-     Residence in the project town for not less than two years; and
-     Non-ownership of a house in the project town.
Upon selection, each beneficiary maintained a contract savings account with FMBN, paying into
the account, at least 20% of monthly household income over a 10-months' period. The
accumulated savings (with interest) were to be later withdrawn and invested on their plots to
satisfy the personal stake required for loan.
The first batch of selection was made by UDPEC in 1984, even before the plots were laid out and
plot cost determined. But there were other lapses also in the selection process. Some allottees
had incomes greater or lower than the prescribed range while some high income earners
understated their incomes. Besides, family size was introduced as one of the criteria for
selection.
Especially in the case of allottees below the minimum income, monthly contribution of their
expected personal stake to qualify for home construction loan (HCL) became difficult: unable to
obtain HCL, some of such allottees have been trying to dispose of their plots informally.
3.4.2 Processing of Title Documents: Provision of Certificates of Occupancy (C of 0) to
selected beneficiaries involves a long process and steps between the Project Implementation Unit
and the State Ministry of Lands. Delays often occurred because most beneficiaries found it



14
difficult to obtain Tax Clearance Certificates (TCC) which are compulsory documentation for the
grant of title.
Constant changes of Commissioners who normally sign the C of 0, and the bifurcation of PIU
after the creation of Abia and Imo States contributed to the delays in processing C of 0. Many
papers were yet to be executed even at the time of final loan closing date of June 30, 1993.
Approval of building plans is delegated to the PIU whose staff normally discuss with beneficiaries
on the appropriate house types based on their incomes and plot sizes.
All completed documents with a copy of plot allocation letter for each beneficiary are sent to
FMBN for loan processing.
3.4.3  Home LAon Processing: A number of factors contributed to slow processing by FMBN.
These include:
-     Failure of the beneficiaries to turn up and complete loan
application papers.
- Non-provision of current tax clearance certificates (TCC) as required by law-
some TCC were often discovered to be fake.
-     Inadequate income of some beneficiaries to afford the least house type, even after
FMBN would have imputed rental income in its affordability analysis. This
eventually led to their inability to provide sufficient personal stake on Site. Apart
from constant increases in cost of building materials, most beneficiaries did not
limit construction to the core unit, abandoning the progressive development
concept.
-     Erroneous impression given by some people that the average interest rate of 9%
p.a. was too high (compared to Bauchi Scheme's of 6% p.a.) and that the long
repayment period of 25 years was too long scared some beneficiaries away. Both
FMBN and PIU therefore increased public enlightenment and education program
for beneficiaries which yielded some results.
-     Untimely granting of consent to mortgage by the state Ministry of Land. A
general consent was initially given by the Commissioner to be signed by the
Director of PIU (as practiced in the Bauchi project) but was later changed to
individual consent to be signed by the Commissioner himself. FMBN cannot
release loans without the consent to Mortgage.
-     Improper planting or displacement of property beacons on the sites.
-     Delays in civil works construction discouraged many beneficiaries from
mobilizing on site. Even after having access to their plots, water was not yet
available for construction works. Those who could afford had to buy water from
long distances for construction. Without electricity and adequate security, they
also feared pilfering of their materials and fittings.
Although funding was never a constraint at the FMBN Owerri branch office, there were some
lapses, along the line, that impeded smooth implementation:
-     non-availability of documents for loan processing;
-     inadequate staffing at managerial and supporting levels;
-     untimely provision (or repairs) of equipment;



15
-      centralization of loan processing at Owerri; beneficiaries from Aba and Umuahia
(an hour's journey by road) had to visit Owerri too often.
3.4.4 Plot Pricing: Some beneficiaries were ready to commence home construction activities
and obtain mortgage loans in 1988 when civil construction was yet about 50% completed and plot
parcellation was yet to be finalized in all the sites, whereas, it became necessary to establish a
unit cost of plots. To make the plot costs affordable, the State Government decided to bear 50%
of the allocable costs. The allocable costs to beneficiaries as established in 1988 were N 12.3m
for Aba, N11.3m for Owerri and N4.3m for Umuahia.
In arriving at the unit costs, the following were paramount:
-      maintaining the principle of internal cross-subsidization such that plots are not
priced beyond the level of services provided to them,
-      ensuring that price levels are consistent with the relative levels of economic
activities in each project town,
-      enhancing the prospect for affordability by allottees as well as reinforcing the
potentials for project success, and
-      Government policy of rationalization of pricing of services as between the urban
and the rural sectors.
The pricing exercise was in the context of the FMBN Project Agreement and the recognition of
the fact that plots were allocated without reference to incomes of beneficiaries and the pricing
levels.
The differential unit plot prices arrived at in March 1989 were:
Owerri and Aa                      Umuahi
N/M2                        N/M2
i) Residential plots along                        12.10                         9.50
paved roads
ii) Residential plots along
paved roads
commercial/residential,
clubhouse/canteen plots                           13.25                        10.44
iii) Churches                                     13.41
iv) Nursery Schools                               14.75                        12.06
v) Banks                                          16.23                        13.30
vi) Petrol filling
station/Industrial plots                          17.85                        14.60
After the pricing exercise, about 1,500 plots in Aba were lost to original land owners (who had
long been paid compensation) and squatters, meaning that about 1,500 allocated plots were
forfeited and that the full allocable costs in Aba may not be realized. Although the need was



16
identified to review the unit cost of plot inconsequence of depreciation of the Naira, ASG/ISG
decided to waive such review. This was deliberately to reduce financial burden to beneficiaries.
3.5    Urban Service and Institutional Development
The essence of technical assistance was to develop capabilities at local, state and national
levels in planning, execution and management of Urban Services.
3.5.1 Urban Developmet: Two firms of consultants were separately employed by the state's
MW&T/PIU to assist the PIU in project initiation, planning, design and implementation. The
first firm was responsible for project preparation, including detailed engineering design and the
bidding documents. However, a number of design errors were revealed at commencement of
implementation. In consequence, another firm of consultants was engaged to rectify the design
errors and take over the supervision of implementation. This contributed to increased cost as
indicated earlier. Delayed release of counterpart funding by the state also resulted in time
slippage and the retention of the consultants beyond the stipulated/budgeted time. As against a
planned assistance to PIU of 30 consultant months from project planning to construction
supervision not less than 60 consultant months were engaged.
The PIUs were adequately provided with vehicles and equipment (including computers) necessary
in the execution of the project. The bifurcation of the PIU, consequent on the creation of Abia
State, however, left most of the equipment (including computers) with the Imo PIU and since the
closing date was near, it was not possible to adequately equip the Abia PIU.
3.5.2 Urban Services and Management: Technical Assistance in environmental Sanitation and
equipment maintenance was provided for the IMO PIU only, since they were engaged shortly
after the creation of states and bifurcation of PIU. The instability and lack of qualified
professionals in the local government administration initially affected the success of this
component. All environmental sanitation equipment procured are yet under the custody of the
Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport. The Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
that was in place at Project Appraisal had long been phased out with its roles transferred to local
government which lack the wherewithal to successfully perform the functions.
3.5.3 Training: Except for training in data processing/mini computer for Imo PIU staff,
training at local, state and FMBN had been done on the job. No efforts were made at these levels
to engage their staff in formal or attachment training before the loan closing date of June 30,
1993.
3.5.4 Studies and Consulting Services: The change in focus by the WB from new sites
development (NSUDP) to Urban Infrastructural improvement (IDF) under the supervision of the
FMWH resulted in the allocation of funds to the FMWH to prepare projects for funding under the
Infrastructural Development Fund (IDF). Before the change in focus, however, some assistance
was provided for the then Gongola State (now Adamawa and Taraba states) to complete
preparation of projects now being implemented under the IDF. Also being implemented under
the IDF is Benue State urban project.



17
4.    Perform         to D:
he set objectives were substantially achieved, deosting that housing provision could
be defined, designed and implemented to meet the requirement of a targeted population using
appropriate standards.
4.1   LuiUaiQSna
4.1.1 The frequent interface by staff of the Urban and Regional Plnning Division of the
Federal Ministry of Works ad Housing has broadened the Divisions perception in developing
appropriate policy initiatives in the urban/housing sector. Convinced that the site. and services
approach provides an accelerated way of responding with low cost solutioks to housing problem,
the Ministry is currently pursuing a national sites and services program.1 Although tdere is no
credit delivery component in the program, it is antiipated that the experience from the current
phase will enable the ministry provide such mechanism in future schemes. The ministry, in
addition, is more aware of the need to provide adequate funding for the succe6s of the scheme.
4.1.2 Experiences gained by the FMBN in the Bauchi Project have been further strengthened by
the ones gained in the Imo Project. FMBN is therefore more capable to identify, prepare and
supervise the development of urban projects in Nigeria. The only problem, however, is the
inability of FMBN to keep together the various professionals that have had extensive exposures in
the projects. FMBN has also demonstrated that special loan facilities could be developed to meet
the requirements of different income groups in the country.
4.1.3 The project implementation unit at Owerri had developed capabilities to prepare, design
and implement similar projects in other urban areas of Imo state. The unit also has the advantage
of still having the bulk of its core staff intact. The Abia state PIU, as presently constituted would
however require more assistance if similar projects wold be embarked upon, this is because a
greater number of the former PIU staff belong to the present Imo PIU.
4.1.4 The Local Governments, as a third tier of government in Nigeria, are just starting to
grow: unstable political environment has prevented the anticipated technical, administrative and
financial capabilities of the local government in the project towns to manage and maintain urban
infrastructure facilities. Even when training facilities for.equipment maintnance were made
available in Owerri, the local councils were unable to present their staff for such training.
4.2      ica Aimn
4.2.1 Civil Works: The project supervision consultants were yet to provide the as-built-
drawings for the Civil Works in the three project site.; but following is an indication of the road
types built in the 3 project towns:
The Bak thinks dw Misitry should confine its activity in donstratio of site and services schemes and not
be involved in the direct provision of housing plots  a suppLer.



18
~{is
owKdf                  Aba            ILMua"
6m carriage ways                6,622               9,592               2,226
Sm carriage ways                7,028               5,933               2,808
3m carriage ways               23,545              18,926               7,566
TOTAL                37,195              34,451              12,600
Although about 70% of the 6m roads were planned to be paved and provided with concrete
drains, all the 6m and some Sm roads were paved with concreto drains.
4.2.2  Srkced Plots: About 80% of the planned number of srviced plots was achieved: 6,843
as against 8,550: Owerri 94% (3,434), Aba 58% (2,117) amd Umuahia 102% (1,279). The
breakdown of the plots into uses is as follows:
Owerribi                      ummaAb             ThA
Residential             3,048           1,770           1,260           6,078
Residential/
Commercisl                346             215              17            578
Industrial                 40             112               -             152
Special Public
Plots                      13              20               2             35
TOTAL                   3,447           2,117           1,279           6,843
Special public plots include churchs, banks, canteens, petrol filling stations and Nursery Schools.
The plot sizes range between 200m2 to 450m2 with the residential plots ranging betwoen 200m2
and 340m2. The quality of contractors' works wa satisfactory and in line with the design
standards. Some of the standards were however disoverod to be too low and had to be improved
upon in the process of implementation. As a result, contracts had to be awarded for soil
stabilization after the completion of Civil Works in the three project towns.
4.2.3 The physical achievement on public facility buildings in the three project towns were also
satisfactorily completed and handed over to relevant states' agencies. Below are the numbers of
such facilities provided in each town compared with the number envisaged (in bracket) in the
project. The additions were considered to be highly necessary in the coure of implementation.



19
O verri                              I aWa
Primary School                  (3) 4               (3) 3              (1) 1
Health Center                  (1) 1                (1) 1
Health Clinics                  (3) 3               (3) 3              (1) 1
Community Center               (1) 1               (1) 1
Tools Lending                    0  1                0  1
Center
Security Houses                  0  1                0  1               0  1
Equipment and furnishing were also provided for the health centers and clinics: such equipment
have been procured but yet to be installed for security reasons. All the primary schools, health
centers and clinics in Owerri were also fenced.
4.2.4 Home Construction Activities: The number of sites being developed by allottoes on the
three sites is far in excess of the number of home loans granted by FMBN. Constraints in
obtaining home loans have been highlighted in 3.4 above. About 90% of plot allottees in Owerri
and Umuahia have mobilized on their plots and, at various stages of development, ranging from
foundation to physical occupation/completion. The dispute by the landowners in Aba discouraged
a lot of beneficiaries from mobilizing on site, but since the landowners have been pacified, about
60% of allottee have mobilized on site. About SO0 beneficiaries have completed and moved into
their houses in Owerri, about 200 each in Umuahia and Aba. All the beneficiaries opted for the
construction of the whole house as against the core unit concept that allows for progressive
development a income improves. Thus, the minimum number of rooms per unit is four
(including living room). The FMBN has committed about N 19m to 1,000 beneficiaries by
September 1993, while actual cash disbursement was about N6m.
4.3   Eunding
Exchange rate fluctuation was an important factor that affected the magnitude of
contribution by the relevant agencies. The exchange rate wu volatile during the implementation
period; as against the exchange rate of US$1 to NO.89 at appraisal, it was between Nl.04/US$ in
1986 and N36.0/US$ in July 1993.
This had resulted to more Naira contribution by local funding agencies and lower amount
of dollar contribution by the World Bank. Fixed exchange rates entrenched in some contracts had
also resulted in more dollar realization by such contractors.



20
4.3.1 The contribution by relevant agencies, as against the projected contribution is as follows:
A=I
FGN/FMBN                                 21.1                                 2.11
ABWIAMO SGs                              10.9                                4.91
IBRD                                     53.0                               43.25
TOTAL                                    80.7
This represeots the USS equivalent of N15.7m at times of release in 1988, 1989 and 1990.
S.    Prgject Benefits
As noted in 4.1 above, the project has enhanced the capabilities of the relevant agencies at
National and State levels in urban development and management. The project has also produced a
number of positive impacts:
For the first time, a substantial proportion of low income earners have been
brought into house ownership under one project.
Compared to about 2,000 units provided by the public sector for the low to
middle income groups over a period of 1980 - 1993 in both states, the 6,830 plots
generated in this project represent a significant intervention in favor of the subject
income group;
there is a great potential for income redistribution. With the current room rent of
N 150.00 per month in the three towns, and considering the minimum of three
rooms per house, each beneficiary can now realize at least N300.00 additional
monthly income assuming each beneficiary occupies a room and the living room.
The improved level of services has enhanced property values generally: as
compared to a rent of N1S per room in 1985, N80.00 in 1990, rents for similar
accommodation are about N 150.00 now. The commonest three bedroom house in
the scheme built at an average cost of N30,000.00 is now estimated to have a
market value of between N 100,000.00 and N200,000.00.
Mhe enhanced property values provide a good potential revenue base for the local
authorities through tenement rating. In fact, the local governments were to take
advantage of this; tenement ratg was a component of the cost recovery study.
However, the local authorities are yet to initiate arrangements for levying and
collection of this revenue.
The commercial plot allottees now have greater opportunity to develop their
trades. Apart from employment prospect generated by the sale of building
materials on the sites, other businesses like catering/canteen and daycare have
sprung up in the project sites. As more people occupy their houses, more
opportnities will be springing up.



21
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



22
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan No. and                 Purpose                 Year of         Status
Title                                            Approval
Loan 1767-UN   To provide (i) sites and services and   1979       Closed 6/30/86
upgrading in Bauchi town and Gombe
township; (ii) technical assistance at
state and federal levels; and (iii) urban
development feasibility studies in seven
other states.
Comments on Project: The approach in this project was similar to that in the Second Urban
Development Project. The two projects were conceived together.
Sources: Project Completion Report issued 6/30/88; Project Performance Audit Report No. 8758
issued 6/8/90.



23
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                      Planned)           Revised            Actual
Identification                                                              10/77
Preparation (Beginning)                                                      7/79
Preparation (Completion)                7/80                                 7/80
Appraisal Mission                       9/80                                 9/80
Loan Negotiations                       2/81              4/81               7/81
Loan Re-negotiation                                                       6/26/84
Board Approval                          4/81         9/81, 4/85           7/23/85
Loan Signature                                                           10/31/85
Loan Effectiveness                                     12/15/85           4/18/86
Loan Closing                        12/31/89   12/31/90,12/31/91          6/30/93
12/31/92,6/30/93
Project Completion                   6/30/89                               2/94 1/
Notei: a/ One contract, power supply to Obioma/Ngwa sites and services scheme is 65%
completed as of December 3, 1993 and expected to be completed by February 1994.
Sources:  Identification, appraisal mission and actual negotiation dates from Staff Appraisal
Report, 7/23/85; actual Board approval, loan signature, loan effectiveness and loan
closing dates from IBRD "Statement of Loans' for various years; other dates from
various memoranda in project files.



24
Table 3: Studies
Study         Purpose as Defined at Appraisal  Status        Impact of Study
Cost Recovery for   To review mechanisms for cost    Completed   Two states understood
Infrastructure     recovery and formulate                      the cost incurred but
Facilities         appropriate action plans                    could not raise the plot
development charges as
recommended
Solid Waste        To develop action plans to      Completed   Vehicles and equipment
Management and     improve maintenance                         for solid waste systems
Maintenance Study   management capabilities                    were procured in Imo
State
State Financial    To analyze alternative sources of   Canceled    The state did not go
Resource           funds for urban needs and                   ahead because of its
Mobilization in Imo  recommend action plan                     political instability
State
Mini-market and    To study market potential and   Completed   The two states will
Landscape Study    landscape needs                             implement the
recommendations.
Studies and Action   To design a program to train the   Completed   The training sessions
Program for        beneficiaries to build their                were tried three times
Vocational         homes.                                      but beneficiaries did not
Education                                                      participate.
Multi-State Water II  An additional study of feasibility   Completed   Will be implemented in
Feasibility Study  of a water supply.                          the Second Multi-State
Water Project under
preparation.
Aba Emergency      An additional study to prepare  Completed   Implemented under this
Water Study and    water supply                                project.
Design



25
Table 4: Phvskeal Execution of the Proiect Civil Works
(Dates of Execution)
Contract No.    Description of Work           Bid      Award    Signed     Start    Completion
On-site Infrastructure
AB/PIU/013      Power Supply, Umuahia         7/9/83   5110/84   7/30/84    3/1/86    12/15/93
/021        Power Supply, Aba             1/24/84  3/10/84   11/13/84   1/21185  2/27/94
/022        On-site Roads, Aba            1/5/92    1/15/92   1/15/92    1/20/92   3/13/92
IM/PIU/024      On-site Water Supply, Aba     1/24/84   5/10/84   6/14/84    1/20/85  /91
AB/PIU/025      On-site Roads, Umuahia        1/24/84  9/10/84   9/10/84    2/15/85   9/1/92
/026        On-site Water Supply, Umuahia   1/24/84  9/10/84   9/10/84    185   /91
IM/PIU/017      Power Supply, Owerri          10/19/82  2/17/83   6/14/84    7/24/87   12/93
/030        On-site Roads, Owerri         1/24/84   5/10/84   6/14/84    1/21/86   6/18/86
/031        On-site Water Sup, Owerri     1/24/84  3/10/84   6/14/84    2/12/85   1/29/91
Off-site Infrastructurc
ABJPIU/01 1     Off-site Drainage, O.Ngwa     1/24/84   6/14/84   7/1/84    /85     /93
/023        Off-site Water, Umuahia                          1/10/85    1/10/85   11/11/88
AB/IMSG/7952    Aba Emerg. Water Supply                12/18/90  12/18/90   2/18/91   9/2/93
IM/PIU/018      Off-site Rds, Owerri          12/29/82  2/14/83   6/14/84    5/31/84   6/14/92
/048        Off-site Drainage, Owerri     9/22/89   4/3/90    12/23/89   6/1/90    6/30/93
Upmrdine
IMIPIU/019      Upgrading, Owerri             10/25/82  2/17/83   6/14/84    10/10/84  9/18/89
Community Facilities
AB/PIU/015      Prim. School, West 1, Aba              5/10/84   12/9/85    1/26/87  3/16/93
/020        Community Center, Aba                  5/10/84   6/14/84    9/11/86   6/7/89
/032        Prim. School, Umuahia                  5/10/84   12/9/85    2/26/88   6/27/91
/033        Prim. School, East, Aba                5/10/84   12/9/85    2/26/88   6/27/91
/034        Health Center, Aba                     5/10/84   12/9/85    1/20/86   12/19/90
/035        Health Clinic, Aba                     5/10/84   12/9/85    1/3/86    12/19/90
/036        Prim. School, West 2, Aba              9/3/84    9/3/84    1/3/84    12/19/90
/038        Health Clinic, Umuahia                 6/14/84   6/14/84    10/23/86  12/88
AB/IMSG/4109    Security Houses, Umuahia               4/30/91   7/17/91    7/17/91   7/30/93
AB/PIU/054      Security Houses, Aba                   4/30/91   7/17/91    8/91    6/30/93
/043        8 Core Houses, Aba/Umu                                              /88 a/
/043A       Tools Lending Ctr, Aba                           10/26/88   10/26/88  Canceled
/052        Tools Lending Ctr, Aba        12/18/90  2/4/91    4/16/91    5/16/91   12/91
IM/IMSG/4108    Security House, Owerri        7/16/90   1/11/91   7/17/91    2/14/93   8/20/93
AB/PIU/001      Pence Hlth Ctr, Aba, Um.                         11/26/92   12/92    6/30/93
IMIPIU/012      Health Ctr, Owerri            12/28/83  5/10/84   6/14/84    1/2/86   9/4/90
/014        Prim. School M, Owerri        1/4/84   3/10/84   6/14/84    8/1/84    2/22/91
/016        Community Ctr, Owerri         1/4/84   5/10/84   6/14/84    1/2/86   9/2/86
/027        Prim. School L, Owerri        113/84   5/10/84   6/14/84    12/15/87  6/15/93
/029        Prim. School N, Owerri        1/5/84   5/10184   6/14/84    5/6/85    5/12/92
/037        Health Clinic, Owerri         1/9/84    5/10/84   6114/84    1/2/86    1/29/93
/044        Tools Lend. Ctr, Owerri       1/4/88   2/11/88    10/26/88   11/3/88   3/22/89
/051        Tools Lend. Ctr, Owerri       5/28/92  2/1/91    4/16/91    4/17/91   8/13/91
/055        Fence, Hlh Ctr, Owerri        5/29/92  6292   8/5/92       9/21/92  6/3/93
/058        Prim. School, Owerri          6/4/92    9/7/92    9/28/92    10/16/92  6/30/93
/060        Fence, Hlth Clinic, Owerri    6/20/92   7/29/92   8/28/92    9/21/92   11/5/92



26
Contract No.     Description of Work           Bid      Award    Signed      Start     Compkction
Consultancy Studies and Supervision
IMIPIU/001       Par. Surv. Owerri L                    8/4/83     8/10/83             8/31/92
AB/PIU/002       Par. Surv. Aba Centrl                  8/10/83    8/10/83            /91 a/
/003      Par. Surv. Aba East                                                   /91 a1
IM/PIU/005       Par. Surv. Owerri N                    7/25/83   7/25/83              /92
AB/PIU/006       Par. Surv. Aba West                    7/25/83   7/25/83              /91
/007      Par. Surv. Aba East                    7/26/83   7/26/83             /91 a/
/008      Par. Surv. Umuahia                     7/25/83   7/25/83              /91 a/
IM/PIU/010       Par. Surv. Owerri M                    8/10/83   8/10/83              /92
IM/AB/PIU/039    Env/DcLcuw Cather             3/27/87   6/24/87   12114/87   12/18/87  6/93
AB/OW/SDR/
8533/IMSG        Design & Gen. Spn             2/88     12/9/88   12/9/88    1/89      12/89
AB/OW/SDR/
7954/IMSG        Site Supervision, Aba         2/88     12118/88  12/18/88   1/91      10/10/93
IM/AB/OW/8002/
7953/IMSG/
IMO&ABIA         Multi-State Water Sup.        2/88     12/18/90  12/18/90   1/20/92  /93
IM/AB/PIU/046    Consult/Supervision                    7/21/89   7/21/89    7/21/89   915/90
/049   3rd Phase Consul Spn.         6/15/90   7/5/90    9/11/90    8/1/90    6/5/93
/052   Cost Recovery                 12/3/92   12115/92  1218/92    4/1/93    6/8/93
IM/PIU/056       Cons. f. Solid Waste Equip.            5/4/92    5/4/92     5/4/92    6/93 a/
Other Procurement
IM/PIU1057       Fum. Hlth Ctr/Clin, Ow                 8/5/92    8/5/92     1/93      6/30/93
AB/PIU/002       Furn. Hlth Ctr/Clinic, Abia                       11/26/92   12/92    5/31/93
IM/PIU/062       Plant & Veh. Rehab.Prog.      12/3/93   1218/92   1218/92    12128/92  6/30/93
/063      Proc. of Equipment/Vch. 1     12/3/93   1218/92   12/8/92    12/22192  2/9/93
/064      Proc. of Equipment/Veh. 2     12/3/93   1218/92   1218/92    12128/92  6/8/93
/065      Proc. of Equipment/Veh. 3     12/3/93   1218/92   1218/93    1/6/93    6/30/93
AB/PIU/065       Vehicle and Equipment         12/3/93   1218/92   1218/93    1/6/93    6/30/93
/062         Repair & Rehab. on PI.& Veh.           1218/92              12/93 a/  12115/93
/063         Vehicle and Equipment                  12/8/92   12/8/92    12/93 _1  6/93 _/
Notes: _/ Dates are not available. Thesc years/dates arm best  iatiates made by the Bank Team related to the project.



27
Table 5: Project Costs
(US$million)
Summary of Costs
Appraisal b/              Actual c/
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
A. Infrastructure Improvement        2.9      3.1    6.0  1
B. Land Development                 20.9    18.5   39.4       4.5    36.7    41.2
C. Home Const.& Imp. Loans
17.3    14.1   31.4       2.4     0.5      2.9
D. Urban Serv & Inst. Dev.
Technical Assist.                 0.3      0.3    0.7      /        0.2     0.2
Equip, Veh, Spar                  0.3      2.4    2.7      0.1      1.7      1.8
E. Studies & Cons.Serv.              2.2      2.6    4.8       0       5.6      5.6
Total                            43.9    41.1   85.0       7.0    44.7    51.7
Notes: a/ Negligible.
'/ Contingency amounts in Staff Appraisal Report (June 28, 1985) have been added to the
basic estimates for project components.
r/ Local currency expenditures were converted into US$ at exchange rates prevailing at the
time of payments.
Sources:  Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Department of IBRD, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria,
Abia and Imo State PIUs, and Nigeria Federal Ministry of Works and Housing.



28
Table 6: Project fTiancing
(USS million)
Source of Funds            Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Federal Government/FMBN                          21.1                          2.1
Imo State Government                              10.9)
Abia State Government                              0  )
IBRD                                             53.0                         44.7
Total                                        85.0                         51.7
Note: Actual IBRD disbursements were US$44.7 million; cancellations were US$8.3 million
Sources: Appraisal estimates from Staff Appraisal Report, 6/28/85; actual counterpart financing
from Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, and Abia and Imo State PIUs; actual IBRD financing from
the Loan Department, IBRD.



29
Table 7: Cumulative Loan DisburseM         ts
(USSmillion)
Fiwal Year and Quartcr        ppraisal Etimuat             Actudal            Actual as % of Etimate
FrY1986
Sep 1985                            4.8                       0.00
Dce 1985                            7.0                       0.00
Mar 1986                            9.3                       0.00
Jun 1986                           11.7                       2.95                       25
F198fl7
Sep 1986                           14.4                       3.78                       26
Doe 1986                           17.5                       4.34                       25
Mar 1987                           20.7                       5.09                       25
Jun 1987                           23.8                       5.48                       23
Sep 1987                           26.8                       6.55                       24
Dcc 1987                           29.9                       7.31                       24
Mar 1988                           33.0                       8.26                       25
Jun 1988                           36.0                       8.70                       24
FY1989
Sep 1988                           38.7                      10.30                       27
Dcc 1988                           41.3                      10.78                       26
Mar 1989                           43.8                      11.52                       26
Jun 1989                           46.1                      12.85                       28
Y1990
Sep 1989                           48.2                      13.75                       29
DOc 1989                           50.2                      14.22                       28
Mar 1990                           52.0                      15.31                       29
Jun 1990                           53.0                      16.53                       31
Ffl991
Sep 1990                                                     18.02                       34
Dck 1990                                                     18.40                       35
Mar 1991                                                     19.99                       38
Jun 1991                                                     20.23                       38
EY1992
Sep 1991                                                     22.37                       42
Dcc 1991                                                     23.77                       45
Mar 1992                                                     27.66                       52
Jun 1992                                                     31.12                       59
FY1993
Sep 1992                                                     34.23                       65
Doc 1992                                                     36.81                       69
Mar 1993                                                     38.65                       73
Jun 1993                                                     40.46                       76
FY194
Scp 1993                                                     43.90                       83
Doc 1993                                                     44.70                       84
:M:  A4ppraisal esimate from Staff Appraial Report, 6/28/85; acud dimbursements from IBRD 'Sement of Loans'
fr various yeur.
Notes:  (1) US$8,300,000 of the loan was cancekd on December 31, 1992.
(2) The loan aoount was cloed on November 9, 1993, the date of the last disbursement.



30
Table 8: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Unit: US$)
Category               Original        Revised            Actual
Allocation     Allocation /     Disbursements
(1) Civil Works:
a. On-site                      18,500,000       24,000,000     24,841,593.49
b. Off-site                      2,500,000        9,620,000     10,162,059.50
c. Upgrading                     4,000,000          230,000         38,579.29
d. Community facilities          3,000,000        1,710,000      1,718,666.11
(2) Home Construction and
improvement loans by FMBN         11,800,000          610,000       478,188.67
(3) Internationally recruited
consultant, expert and specialist
services and studies, including
design and supervision
a. FMBN                          2,800,000          210,000        200,029.52
b. State                         3,300,000        5,380,000      5,557,203.89
(4) Vehicles and equipment and     1,800,000        1,730,000      1,701,279.53
PlUs start-up costs
(5) FMWH Feasibility Studies              0         1,210,000         2,400.00
(6) Unallocated                    5,300,000               0
(7) Cancellation                          0         8,300,000
Total                         53,000,000       53,000,000     44,700,000.00
Notes:
j/ Revised 1/26/93
k/ US$8,300,000 of the US$53,000,000 loan was canceled on December 31, 1992.
Source:  Loan Department, IBRD



31
Table 9-a: Direct Benefits of Prolect
lham                        Unit             SAR or Detail  Actl Achi_vmt: %
Designs     Compleed (Dec--93)
Site wid Servioes
Servioed Plot                             no                       8,550                  94 W/
Owwi
Off-site Infistruue:
Drainage                                 km                                               100
On-site Infrasucture:
Earth Road                               km                      37.84)
Paved Road                               km                       4.50)
Earth Channel                            km                     10.015)                   100
Concrete Channel                         km                       3.93)
Box Culvert                              km                       2.09)
On-site Water Supply:
100mm                                    km                     29.977)
150mm                                    km                      4.396)                   100
200mm                                    km                      1.554)
250mm                                    km                      1.480)
Power Supply                            Network                        1                   100
Primar School A (in M)                    no                           1                   100
Primary School B (in N)                   no                           1                   100
Primary School C (in L)                   no                           1                   100
Fourth Primary School                     no                           0                    95
Health Center, Bblk M                     no                           1                   100
Health Clinic, Block L                    no                           1                   100
Community Center, Block N                 no                           1                   100
Took Lending
Center/Workshop                          no                          0                    100
AkA
Off-site Infratructure
Drainage                                                                                  100
On-site Infiastucture:
Earth Road                               km                      44.21)
Paved Road                               km                       9.60)
Earth Channel                            km                       7.40)
km                      9.076)                  100
Concrete Channel                         km                       1.49)
Culvert                                  km                       7.069
Underound Drminage
Water Supply:                             km                     21.544)
100mm                                    km                       7.93)                  100
150mm                                    km                      5.196)
200mm                                    no                           1                    65
Power Supply                              no                           1                   100
Primay School A                           no                           1                   100
Primary School B                          no                           1                   100
Primary School C                          no                           1                   100
Health Center                             no                           1                   100
Heath Clinic                              no                           1                   100
Community Ceter
Tool Lending                              no                           0                   100
Center/Workshop                         Block                        0                    100
Security Houes



32
Item                        Unit            SAR or Detail  Actal Achievement: %
Designs     Completd (Dc-06-93)
Off-site Water Supply                                                                    100
On-site Infistructur:
Earth Road                              km                    13.078)
Paved Road                              km                     1.531)
Earth Channel                           km                     2.375)                  100
Concrte Channel                         km                     3.426)
Box Culvert                             km                     0.696)
On-sile Water Supply:
100mm                                   km                     7.537)
lSOmm                                   km                     3.456)                  100
200nm                                   km                      1.390)
Power Supply                             no                          1                    98
Primary School                           no                          1                   100
Heakh Clinic                             no                          1                   100
In Owerri Area                           Ha                         43                   100
In Aba Area                            Residents                 9,000                     0
Home Improvament and
Consuucion Loans
In Sites and Services Am              Household                  6,400                 17 hb
In Upgrading Ar                 Household and Business             570                  0 c/
MMtos:  /  In total, 8,043 erviced plots were developed for residential, commercial and industrial
use as against planned number of 8,550 plots. They are allocated as follows: 6,843 for
public allocation, 500 for traditional land owners in ObionalNgwa as compensation for
expropriation, and 700 for existing land owners in Obiona/Ngwa as compensation.
h/ As of April 1993, 1,080 households received the home improvement loans (Owerri 732,
Aba 227 and Umuahia 121).
c/ No household wanted to take the home improvement loan.



33
Table 9-b: Economic Re-evaluation of the Proiect
(Naira Million at 1993 Prices)
Year       Site Dev.     Dev. Cost      Op. &        Total Cost     Benefits    Net Benefits
On-Plot Cost                Maint. Cost
1985
1986               42.6                         1.3          43.9           0.0   -43.9
1987               61.5                         3.1          64.6         110.0   45.4
1988               51.3                         4.7          56.0           0.0   -56.0
1989               55.3        15               6.3          76.6          35.0   -41.6
1990               63.3         15              8.2          86.5          35.0   -51.5
1991               45.2        30               9.6          84.8          70.0   -14.8
1992              213.7        30              16.0         259.7          70.0   -189.7
1993              105.8        45              19.2         170.0         125.0   -45.0
1994                           60              19.2          79.2         209.5   130.3
1995                           90              19.2         109.2         279.5   170.3
1996                           150             19.2         169.2         419.5   250.3
1997                           225             19.2         244.2         590.3   346.1
1998                           240             19.2         259.2         560.0   300.8
1999                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2000                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2001                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2002                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2003                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2004                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2005                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2006                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2007                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2008                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2009                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2010                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2011                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2012                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2013                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2014                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
2015                                           19.2          19.2           0.0   -19.2
IRR = 0.197
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
Note:  Site development costs excluded the cost of the Aba Emergency Water contract and the cost of
community facilities following the SAR's practice. On-plot development (housing/building
construction) costs were estimated on the basis of N 150,000 cost per house or building. Operations
and maintenance costs were estimated based on 3 % of capital cost. Housing benefits were derived
on the basis of the number of houses and an average market value of N350,000 per house; the
benefits from commercial and industrial development were based on a market value of N480,000
per building. Another benefit, attributable to the upgrading component of the project, was
estimated on the basis of N100,000 increase in value of the 1,100 affected dwellings, existing when
the works were completed in 1987.



34
Table 10: Use of Bhnk Retourme
A. Missiow
State of        Month/           No. of  Days in Spec                         Nature of
Proj Cyole      Yoer             Staff   Field    Reprt           Rating      Problen
Identification  10/77            20      5-       Ec,Eng
Preparation     11/79            1       3       Eo
2/80            3       3       Eo,Eo,Eng
5/80            4       13      Ec,Ec,Eng,FA
Appraisal        9/80            6       16       Ec,Eng,FA
Total through Appraisal      4
A.P.D.0
Suporvision     11/8S            2       22       Eng             2,2.1,1
Supervision      2/87            2       5        Eng, Ec         2,3,1,2
Supervision     11/87            2       4        Eng             2,2,1,2
Supervision      2/88            3       10       Eng, Lo         2,3,2,2
Supervision      7/88            1       3        Eng             2,3,2,2
Supervision     12/88            1       2        Eng             2,3,2,2
OPCMA    PTAS.EF
Supervision      5/89            1        2       Eng             2,2,1,2,2    3,2,2,2,2,2
Suporvision      7/89            4        6       Eng, Ec         2,2,1,2,2    3,2,2,2,2,2
Supervision      10/89           2        2       Eng, Ec         2,2,2,2,2    3,2,2,2,2,2
Supervision      3/90            1        3       Ec              2,2,2,2,1    2,2,2,3,2,2
Supervision      7/90            3       12       Eng,Ec          2,2,2,2,2    2,2,3,3,2,2
Suporvision      11/90           3        6       Eng,Ec          2,2,2,2,1    2,2,3,3,2,2
Supervision      4/91            1        4       Ec              2,2,2,2,1    2,2,3,3,2,2
Supervision      10/91           3        6       Ec,Eng          2,2,2,2,2    2,3,2,2,2,2
Supervision      2/92            2        5       Ec,Eng          2,2,2,2,2    2,3,2,2,2,2
Supervision      7/92            1        4       Eng             2,2,2,2,2    2,3,2,2,2,2
Supervision      10/92           2        6       Ec, Eng         3,2,2,3,3    2,3,2,2,2,2
Supervision      12/92           1        4       Eng             2,2,2,3,2    2,3,2,2,2,2
Total for Supervision                     S
"Estimate
Key to Spocialization Represented: Ec - Eoonoriot; Eng - Enginoer; Lo - Loon Officer; FA - Finanoid Analyst
Perforrncneo Status Indicators:                           Types of Problmes:
A  - Availabity of Funds                                  P - Procurement
P  - Project Manogemnt                                    T - Training Progress
D  - Development Impact                                   A - Technical Assistance Progress
0  - Overall Status                                       S - Studies Progress
E - Environmental Aepoots
0  - Overall Status                                       F - Financial Performaneo
P     Pro,bot Developrnmnt Objectives
C  - Compliance with Leglp Covenants
M  - Project Managerment Perforrn nce
A  - Avaibility of Funds



35
Table 10. U. of Bnk R"ou,oe (oontinued)
B. Staff Inputs IStaff Weeka)
Fiscal Year  Proparation   Appraisal  Negotiations    Proce.s Sunn Totol
FY77         1.0                                                                         1.0
FY78                                                                              0
FY79         1.0                                                                         1.0
FY80         2.5                2.5                                                      5.0
FY81                                                                                      0
FY82                                            24.3                                     24.3
FY83                                             15.0                                    15.0
FY84                            7.0              9.2                                     16.2
FY85                                     22.1                                    22.1
FY86                                             0.8                    5.5              6.3
FY87                                                                    4.8              4.8
FY88                                                                    13.7             13.7
FY89                                                                    12.9             12.9
FY90                                                                    21.7             21.7
FY91                                                                    27.8             27.8
FY92                                                                    13.9             13.9
FY93                                                                    18.5    10.3    28.8
Total        4.5                9.5             71.4                   118.8   10.3   214.5



36
Table 11 Status of Covenants
Agreement Reference                Subject                     Status of Compliance
Loan Agreement
Sec 2.04               Loan Closing Date 6/30193(Rev)      Satisfactory
Loan Agreement
Sec 2.02               To establish Special Account        Satisfactory
Loan Agreement
Sec 3.01               FGN to pay FMBN contribution to    Satisfactory
home construction loans
Imo State Proj. Agrmt.
Sec 2.01 (d)           Imo State to establish local        Full compliance
committees in 3 towns
Sec 2.02 (a)           Imo State to provide sufficient     In Imo State, partial compliance
counterpart funds                  initially and satisfactory toward
completion of project. In Abia
State, partial compliance.
Sec 2.02 (b)           Imo State to (1) provide plan for   Strengthening of vocational
equipping vocational centers and (ii)  training center was aborted.
develop training courses           Instead, tools-lending centers
were built.
Sec 2.02 (c)           Imo State to budget recurrent       Partial compliance. All
expenditures for education and health  completed facilities were
facilities on sites and subsequently    transferred. Education facilities
transfer such facilities to Ministry of  are being fully used. Some
Education and Ministry of Health   health facilities are not staffed
yet.
Sec 2.02 (d)           Imo State to transfer water facilities   Satisfactory
on sites to Imo State Water Board
and budget for their maintenance
Sec 2.03               Imo State to transfer community and   Partial compliance
other facilities to Local Government
and cause LGAs to budget for their
maintenance
Sec 2.04               Imo State to prepare proposals for  Satisfactory
refuse collection, and cost recovery
in upgrading areas
Sec 2.05               Imo State to grant C of Os to all   Partial compliance
persons allocated plots in the sites
service areas



37
Agreement Reference                Subject                    Status of Compliance
Sec 2.06 (i)           Plots to be allocated in accordance    Satisfactory
with agreed procedures
Sec 2.06 (ii)          Cost of upgrading to be recovered  Partial compliance (recovering
from beneficiaries in accordance  through property rates but not
with acceptable cost recovery system   successful in raising rates
themselves)
Sec 2.06 (iii)         Charges for plots to be satisfactory    Partial compliance
to Bank and to be recovered
including interest at least at rate of
Bank loan
Sec 2.07 (a)           Imo State to employ consultants,   Partial compliance (PIU does
experts, specialists, according to  not have management advisor,
Bank guidelines                   sanitation expert, maintenance
expert and rating valuation
expert)
Sec 2.07 (b)           Imo State to prepare TOR for above   Partial compliance
specialists, experts and consultants
for Bank review
Sec 2.08               Procurement of goods and works     Satisfactory
according to Schedule 1
Sec 2.09 (a)           Goods imported for project to be   Satisfactory
insured
Sec 2.16               Imo State to cause Cost Recovery   Satisfactory
Study to be provided for Bank
comments and review
FMBN Agreement         FMBN to review annually level of    Satisfactory
Sec 2.04               its service charges to ensure that
FMBN maintain positive spread in
its lending operations
Sec 3.01 (a)           FMBN to manage its operations and   Satisfactory
maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial and banking
practices
Sec 3.01 (b)           FMBN to review with Bank and       Satisfactory
FGN recommendations of study of
FMBN's policies and procedures



38
Agreement Reference                Subject                   Status of Compliance
Sec 3.05               FMBN to furnish to Bank and FGN    Satisfactory
program of its operations scheduled
for 1985 to 1989 together with
financing proposals
Sec 4.02               FMEBN to furnish to the Bank      Satisfactory
audited financial statements and an
audit report every year
Sec 4.03               FMBN to present and subsequently    Satisfactory
carry out administration of a cost
recovery system for project



39
ANNEXES



40
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
ORGANIZATIONAL AND POLICY CONTEXT OF THE PROJECT
1.    Responsibility for urban planning and development rests largely with the states. The Federal
Government, however, is also involved in the sector; it provides major urban infrastructure and
formulates national policy for urban development including housing. In 1984, the Federal
Government had not yet formulated a comprehensive and coherent policy framework which might
serve as a basis for defining its urban development strategy. By 1993, some modest progress had been
made in policy formulation at the Federal level of government but the task remained largely
incomplete. Similarly, at the state level, while progress has been made in recent years in a few states,
there is room for improvement in creating at this level a sound strategy for urban sector development.
2.    Beginning in the late 1970s, the World Bank provided assistance to the Federal Government
and to selected states for sectoral development; the Bank helped to establish objectives in the urban
sector, strengthen institutions for urban planning and development and finance urban infrastructure
and housing. The first such effort was the Urban Development Project, focusing on Bauchi State,
approved by the World Bank in 1979 and completed in 1984. The Bauchi project was intended to
demonstrate how urban infrastructure and low-cost housing could be efficiently and effectively
provided. The pilot project itself provided 2,099 plots over a six year period or an average of some
350 plots per annum; houses were constructed on most of these plots. An important lesson of that
project is that, in a country as large as Nigeria, policy dialogue must be based upon a realistic
assessment of the dimensions of the urban sector and recognize the modest scale of individual site and
services operations, such as the Bauchi project, that it is possible to mount.
3.    The administrative structure for the urban sector is somewhat complex, in part because of the
different levels of government involved. In recent years, the relevant structure has undergone a
number of significant changes. As noted above, a major change at the state level occurred in 1991
when Imo State was divided into a smaller Imo State and a new Abia State; this division had an
important impact on the Second Urban Development Project since two of the three project towns
came under the jurisdiction of the new State of Abia. Each of these two states has a Ministry of
Works and Transport with primary responsibility for urban sector planning and development; within
that ministry is a Public Utilities Board and a Project Implementation Unit, the latter having direct
authority for project execution. A Ministry of Lands, Survey and Urban Development in each state
was responsible for land surveys and issuance of land title for plot/land allottees. Environmental
sanitation was the special responsibility of Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority and a
comparable organization was created in Abia State. Local Governmental Authorities (LGA) have a
very limited role to play in urban development; certain facilities completed under the project,
however, were handed over to LGAs for operation and maintenance.
4.    At the Federal level of government, a Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) has
responsibility for general policy formulation and overall planning, development and financing in the
urban sector. As indicated above, however, most of the planning and development activities in the
sector are carried out at the state level. The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) is a federal
parastatal organization under the aegis of the FMWH with authority to finance construction or
improvement of commercial, industrial or residential property development for individual, corporate



41
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
or public clients, including state and federal governmental agencies; it depends on Government funds
for loans although it has authority to borrow funds in financial markets. Within the FMBN is a
Research and Project Development Department which has been responsible for feasibility studies
carried out in various states. The FMBN has established branch offices in a number of towns
including the three project towns of Owerri, Aba and Umuahia.
5.    Several important policy issues were recognized by the Bank and the Government of Nigeria
during the early 1984s. One of these issues was that of deermining how best to carry out the
development of sites and services projects in various towns of the country. The Bank's First Urban
Development Project, directed to Bauchi, was designed as a pilot effort; after project completion it
was anticipated that the basic project design would be replicated in subsequent projects in other towns
with serious shortages of low cost housing. While the demonstration was achieved in Bauchi,
important lessons were learned from the experience, such as the importance of cost recovery
considerations in project design.
6.    Another policy issue in the late 1970s was that of expanding the financial resources available
to individuals for housing construction on plots created under sites and services developments. There
was little to be gained from plot development if the plot owners could not finance home construction.
While some of these needs for funds could be met from savings and private borrowing, in the Bauchi
project the FMBN was provided with expanded resources which could be loaned for this purpose.
The Bauchi project included about US$6.5 million for mortgage loans for home construction from the
FMBN; although only about 81% of that amount was actually disbursed, these loans probably resulted
in faster home construction than would otherwise have occurred. The concept of FMBN mortgage
loans for home construction was also an important feature of the Second Urban Development Project.



Annex 2:  INPLZEDTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year
Component                                1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Land DeveloPment
Off-site Infrastructure                 ...... ......          ... ......
Owerri and Umuahia
Aba
On-site Infrastructure                  ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Owerri and Umuahia
Aba
Comzmnity Facilitie-                    ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Owerri and Umuahia
Aba
Housing   Loans                                ......  ...... ......  ......  ...... ......
Owerri and Umuahia
Aba
Infrastructure Improve (Upgrading)    ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Owerri
NOTES:  Source:  Annex 4-1 in Staff Appraisal Report, Second Urban Development Project (Imo); and Table 4 of PCR
Legend:   Plan .......                 Actual



Planned Versus Actual Disbursements
Cumulative Loan Disbursements (US$ million)
60
50-
40-
30-
20-
10
FY1986 FY1987 FY1988 FY1989 FY1990 FY1991 FY1992 FY1993 FY1994
-Appraisal Estimate        +Actual Amount
NaIL, On December, 1903. US $8.3 million of the original US $53million loan was canceled.
SourceL Based on data in Table 7.






BRD 15465P
2         ,-            t                ?8;                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R                                                rt7              CHA
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N    I  G    E  R         ,             ,                _                     b    o     ,          j                     /                                         -Dms                    <03- 
// URBA  DEELPMN PrCAMEROOJC
O y s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                <        Loatios  of  ProiectTowns
| F                                                                                                                                                                          * k _,bAN LeneI N
i   y--  <   ,J   - -, --  K 5-                 >                                   -             (                    _ 2                                    -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L,b,    Iooe~  --
, ~   ~ ~~~~ tc'7<                                                                                      r  -                                                   =A .'    )0 -C *3
67\ gb Gyof 77Gshambo ~~~~~' > _=/ io r/@ a~~~av>7 \> / ~NIGERIA
</ \7v--\\   s)   t   tL  7 E   G@@    '   <- >   MAKUB                                /                /     \  }SECOND
$ \ AsE cn2.:< . o ............................. C CURBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r t = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~oct /Friobns    DeeGmof Prjc   Town
A F   R I C A                                                                                                                                                               8..     \- SiEOOE  ta 7  COP-'O
. .;  ,0wr73fl-0o t /C A M  E R                                                O O N-
.  .   Y.nOAWi       \ /              4X,\;J  7                                                                      ~~ ~ ~ ~            ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID  2X  3D
_                      e                  . R         9WO  Etet  ~  A _ .,                                              v   A            5           ID7         15         ID
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                                   w     m                      2  'M 



