DocuDent of
The World Bank
FoR omvAL USE ONLY
Report Ne. P-4122-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMEDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$53.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 1985
InEs deme  b  a resulct.d dsibgtdai and =ay be uad by repients ouy in the performance of
their oEdd dutIs. Us costeb s   not odterwbe be dbioed widhot World Bnk xuhorkzaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984           June 1985
Currency Unit  =    Naira (N)                 N
US$1                N 0.77                    N  0.87
NI             =    US$1.30                   US$1.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare        =    2.47 acres
1 acre           =    0.405 hectare
1 kilometre (km) =    0.62 mile
1 liter          =    0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN       Central Bank of Nigeria
FMGN      Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FMF       Federal Ministry of Finance
FMBN      Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
FMW-H     Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ISESA     Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
ISG       Imo State Government
LGA       Local Government Authority
MLG       Imo State Ministry of Local Government
MLSUD     Ministry of Lands, Survey and Urban Development
MWT       Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport
NEPA      National Electric Power Authority
NSUDP     Nigerian States Urban Development Program
PDD       Project Development Department
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
UDPEC     Urban Development Project Executive Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:      Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and Imo State
Amount:             US$53.0 million.
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    US$16.3 million would be relent by the Federal
Government to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
which would repay the loan on the same terms as the
IBRD loan. The remaining US$36.7 million would be
channelled through the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
and onlent to the Imo State Government on the same
terms as the IBRD loan. The Federal Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The project would seek to extend the experience of the
first urban project in Bauchi State (Loan 1767-UNI) by
providing affordable shelter, infrastructure and
related urban services to low income households in Imo
State. The project would also enhance the planning and
project implementation capabilities of key institutions
at the federal and state levels so as to strengthen the
basis for a more extensive program of urban develop-
ment. In this context funds would be provided to the
Project Development Department of the Federal Mortgage
Bank of Nigeria for studies and consulting services,
and technical assistance and equipment would be provid-
ed to state and local authorities participating in the
project.  Serviced housing sites would be developed in
the three principal towns and low income residential
areas would be upgraded. Sites would also be provided
for small scale enterprises to generate employment.
Low income families would be given access to construc-
tion loans and supporting social facilities would be
constructed in the project areas.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project would directly benefit some 87,000 people,
of which an estimated 80 percent have incomes below the
relative urban poverty threshold. Urban development
This document ha a resricted distribution and may be used by recipiei.s only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withowu Vorld Bank authoriztion.



- il -
projects of this nature are new in Imo and may entail
risks associated with inexperience. However, xperi-
ence gained during Itpl_mentation of the first urban
project and technical assistance provided under the
proposed loan is designed to minimize these risks. The
project implementation unit is fully staffed, counter-
part funding is assured and all major civil and build-
ing contracts have been awarded.
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Urban Infrastructure                        15.0     13.7       28.7
Community Facilities                        2.9       2.3        5.2
Construction Loans                         12.9      10.5       23.4
Technical Assistance and Training           0.2       0.3        0.5
Equipment, Vehicles and Spares              0.4       1.6        2.0
Studies                                     1.6       2.0        3.6
Total Base Cost:                           33.0      30.4       63.4
Contingencies:  Physical              1.7       1.4        3.1
Price                13.6      4.9       18.5
Total Costs:                               48.3      36.7       85.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                       16.3      37.7       53.0
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria           21.1       -         21.1
Imo State Government                       10.9       -         10.9
Total Financing Required                   48.3      36.7       85.0
Estimated Disbursement:  a/        FY86   FY87      FY88     FY89   FY90
-  US$ million-
Annual              11.7   12.1     12.2      10.1    6.9
Cummulative:        11.7   23.8     36.0     46.1   53.0
Economic Rate of Return:          The land development and infrastructure
improvement components representing abiut
90 percent of project costs would together
yield an estimated economic rate of return
of 27 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:           No. 3295-UNI dated June 28, 1985.
a/   Based on Bank-wide sectoral profile but adjusted to reflect the award
of all major civil and building works contracts.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of
US$53.0 million to help finance a project for urban development in Imo
State in Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The assessment of the Nligerian economic situation in this
report is based largely on the work of an economic updating mission of
November 1984 supplemented by further analysis undertaken by Bank
staff on the basis of the 1985 budget speech. The findings of a 1982
economic mission were more fully reflected in a Country Economic
Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 15, 1983. Annex 1 presents selected social and economic
indicators for Nigeria.
Background
3.        Nigeria, with a population of about 94 million in 1984, is
the most populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members,
in 1980 Nigeria accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and
more than 60 percent of regional investment. Its GNP per capita is
estimated at about US$760 in 1983, which is twice the average for
sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria as a major oil exporter since the
early seventies enjoyed a substantially improved resource base from
increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early stage of
development in terms of socio-economic indicators, in which it
compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.        Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new
federal constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government
came into power in 1979. This goverment was re-elected in
September 1983. However, a military government (FMGN), led by
Major-General Mohammadu Buhari, took power in December of the sae
year.
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Borno Water Supply Project (P-3692-UNI) approved by the
Board of Directors on May 7, 1985.



-2-
Macro-economic Davelopments
5.        Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic
transformation since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which
dramatically altered the country's resource position. Between then
and the late seventies, Nigeria's development strategy was based on
sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the economy through
the resources generated by the oil sector. The principal objective of
the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to translate
the large oil revenues accrued -- about US$100 billion in current
prices during the 1973-81 period -- into investments in economic,
social, and physical infrastructure. While there have been some
"non-economic" investments and waste, significant development gains
were made in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded conslderably.
Power generating capacity tripled, and refining capacity has more than
quadrupled since 1973. Manufacturing grew at an average annual rate
of 10 percent during the 1973-82 period, although there was a highly
distorted investment structure due to large variations in the rates of
effective protection provided to various industrial sub-sectors.
There also has been a rapid spread of education at all levels; in
particular, the primary enrollment ratio which was about 35 percent in
the early seventies has more than doubled.
6.        Developments were not as positive in some other areas.
According to official statistics, overall output in agriculture
remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-83 period, with the
production of grains increasing probably at the same rate as the
population growth rate, but the production of root and export crops
declining substantially. Within a decade, Nigeria became a major food
importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in 1982) as domestic terms of
trade moved against agriculture. Inflation, coupled with an
appreciating domestic currency, pushed up domestic costs of
production, thus putting the commodity-producing sectors at a
disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods. This encouraged
diversion of resources from commodity production to services
(including trade and construction). Both agriculture and industry
became "high-cost" activities. Trade and exchange rate policies,
which were formulated in response to frequent swings in oil export
earnings, were largely used to dampen inflationary pressures or ration
imports rather than to provide appropriate incentives to domestic
production.  This was partly due to the fact that, as a result of the
fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the balance
of payments and goverment revenues, Nigerian policy-makers were
preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This diverted atten-
tion from the formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the
country's dependence on oil and to strengthen the domestic productive
sectors.
7.        The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980
when the world oil markets presented a favorable outlook. Nigeria's



oil exports for the year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign
exchange reserves stood at US$10 billion. The Plan, accordingly,
reflected an ambitious investment program. It envisaged a total
capital investment of N80 billion (about US$145 billion at the 1980
rate of exchange) over the period 1981-85, half of which was to be
invested directly by the Federal Government and a quarter directly by
the states -- with the remaining quarter to be invested by the private
sector. Emphasis was placed on the development of agriculture
(through statewide agricultural support programs and massive
irrigation schemes) and on heavy industry based on cheap energy
(steel, petrochemicals, fertilizers, etc.), both supported by
substantial investments in infrastructure.
8.        Nigeria's development plans, however, were overtaken by the
sharp decline in oil export revenues since 1981. Its economic
problems during 1981-83 were exacerbated by the inability of Nigerian
decision-makers to cut back the public investment program
sufficiently, partly because of a continuing belief that oil markets
would soon recover. Nigeria's imports reached US$24.2 billion in
1981, while oil production fell by one-third from its 1980 level of
2.06 mbd to 1.44 mbd. Although the oil price peaked at US$39 per
barrel, oil export revenues declined 'rom US$23.4 billion in 1980 to
US$17.4 billion in 1981, resulting in a current account deficit of
US$6.5 billion, which was financed largely through the drawing down of
foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing.
9.        Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial
situation. However, these measures failed to achieve their
stabilization objective: oil production declined further and, coupled
with a decline in the oil price to US$34.4 per barrel, oil export
revenues fell to US$12.8 billion. Imports of goods for the year
declined only marginally to US$17 billion (from the 1981 level of
US$19.1 billion), resulting in a wider current account deficit of
US$7.7 billion. Reserves declined further to only US$1.4 billion by
the end of 1982, whilst trade payment arrears of US$4 billion were
accumulated.
10.       By 1983, previous measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions together with a growing reluctance of the trading
partners to extend further trade credits to Nigeria led to a reduced
import level of US$12.2 billion. Oil export revenues continued to
fall, however, reaching US$10.1 billion in 1983. The trade deficit
was largely financed by further accumulation of trade payment arrears
(US$3.8 billion), a process which had already begun during 1982.
Discussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the
rescheduling of the arrears owed to these institutions (for
confirmation of letters of credit) of about US$2.1 billion accumulated
prior to August 31, 1983, with repayments to be made over a period of
31 months starting January 1984. In April 1984, the Government



completed negotiations to reschedule US$4-5 billion of the remaining
arrears incurred through "open-account" inter-company import
financing. This agreement included only those arraars not covered by
export credit insurance and rescheduled the payments ovor a period of
six years including a grace period of two and half years at an
interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR. Outstanding arrears at this
point are about US$2 billion insured by export credit agencies (ECAs).
The terms under negotiation for these remaining arrears are similar
although formal agreement to reschedule has been made conditional by
the ECAs on Nigeria reaching an agreement with the IMF. The military
government (FMGN) has so far been regular in making repayments due on
earlier medium- and loug-term debt, as well as on the 1983
reschedulings.
11.       The deterioration in the external financial situation had a
severe impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State
Governments as well as on grovth. Federally collected revenues fell
from N15.2 billion in 1980 to N12.0 billion in 1983, because oil
revenues account for such a large percentage of total revenues (about
80 percent in 1980 and almost 60 percent in 1983). Until 1984, the
Federal Government did not reduce expenditures in line with the
reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits emerged over the period
1981-83, with the deficit/GDP ratio in excpss of 8 percent. In order
to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from the Central
Bank. This, coupled with the physical shortages of many imported
commodities, led to an acceleration in the inflation rate which rose
to about 23 percent in 1983. As a result of a decline in Imports of
about 30 percent in real terms, domestic output contracted by
6.0 percent in 1983 following declines of 5.9 percent in 1981 and
2.3 percent in 1982; as a consequence, most manufacturing industries,
starved of imported raw materials and spare parts, are now operating
at very low capacity levels. In addition to the decline in manufac-
turing output, the construction sector suffered from an almost
one-third decline in gross output in 1983.
12.       In order to get the balance of payments situation under
control, and accommodate the increase in debt service to about
US$4.2 billion in 1984, the FMGN imposed in early 1984 very strict
limitations on imports through the use of an import licencing/foreign
exchange allocation scheme. As a result there was a sharp curtailment
of imports which are estimated to have amounted to only about
US$10 billion in 1984. Since oil export revenues increased by about
US$1.3 billion over the 1983 level to US$11.4 billion, due to an
increase in oil exports that more than offset the US$2 per barrel
reduction in price in October 1984, there was also an improvement in
the external balance. The current account deficit is estimated to
have amounted to only about $150 million in 1984. The improvement of
the external balance through measures to constrain imports carried
with it, however, very high costs for the economy in the form of.
further decreases in industrial production, construction and
investment, accelerated inflation (officially estimated at 37 percent



5
in 1984) as well as increased unemployment. The manufacturing sector
as a whole is estimated to have operated at only about one-third of
capacity in 1984. However, due to the increased oil revenues as well
as good performance in the agricultural sector -- in part explained by
a return of workers to farming following recent years' increases in
agricultural prices -- Nigeria was able to break three consecutive
years of decline in overall production, and held it about constant in
1984.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.       At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues:
first, the management of the short-run financial crisis and
stabilization of the economy; and second, the longer-term structural
adjustment of the economy by stimulating productive sectors, lessening
dependence on oil, and developing a wider resource base. With regard
to the short term, the measures that the FMGN has taken since
January 1984 to reschedule trade arrears, control imports and restrain
domestic expenditures which were reconfirmed in the 1985 budget
released in January, may help to arrest a further deterioration of the
external and internal financial situation.  However, the remaining
external arrears need to be rescheduled, particularly in view of the
need for substantial external borrowing in the near future.
14.       While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to
overcome the current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues
facing the economy. More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the
measures taken to restore financial stability, will be needed to bring
about structural change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further
incentives for efficient export promotion and import substitution,
including appropriate exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies;
(ii) complementary steps to strengthen the balance of payments through
judicious management of foreign borrowing and external reserves;
(iii) continued control of aggregate demand through prudence in
monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improvements in the
composition and implementation of public investment to increase its
efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and
improv±ng tax collection, to increase private and public savings and
investment.
Prospects and Financing of Development
15.       Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are
expected to be significantly reduced well before the turn of the
century, the bulk of its foreign exchange resources will continue to
come from the hydrocarbon sectors during the next twenty years. In
addition to oil exports, this could include exports of liquefied
natural gas (LNG) -- although the market prospects for LNG during the
1990s are more uncertain than before -- and some exports of
petrochemicals. To maintain economic growth, major structural changes
are needed in order to adapt the economy to lower levels of oil export



-6-
earnings. In the short run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is
likely to be determined by the uncertain conditions of the world oil
markets rather than by the deliberate extraction policies of the
Government. It is projected that oil production would rise gradually,
possibly attaining a level of 1.6 mbd in 1987, from its estimated
level of 1.3 mbd in 1984.
16.       The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term
are closely related to the kind of economic policies the Government
pursues over the next few years. One option open to the Government is
to pursue a "high growth/economic reform" strategy comprising policy
measures which have been discussed in the context of a possible
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the IMF and a Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) from the Bank. Such a strategy would also give Nigeria
renewed access to international borrowing from commercial banks,
although the amounts that would be available are difficult to
quantify. On the estiaation that about US$2-3 billion per year of
international lending would be available from all different sources,
this would permit a moderately high growth rate of about 4 percent per
annum over the period 1985-1992. It would prevent a further
deterioration in the average standard of living and allow employment
to expand broadly at the same pare as population growth.  In addition,
it w-ould, over time, stimulate non-oil exports, which, in the longer
run will need to replace oil as the engine of growth.  In the "low"
case, on the other hand, assuming no agreement is reached on an
EFF/SAL package, and the only "reform" is in maintaining enough
macro-economic discipline to avoid the reemergence of trade arrears as
a major problem, the possibility of foreign borrowing would be very
limited and balance of payments constraints would necessitate the
continuation of restrictive policies. The result would be lower
growth rates for the rest of the decade leading to a further deterio-
ration of the average standard of living, low capacity utilization
rates in many sectors and increasingly severe unemployment problems.
17.       At present the Government is pursuing an intermediate
strategy. In addition to the adjustments in the investment program
mentioned above (para. 12), the Government has recently introduced new
schedules of customs and excise duties that move in the direction of
equalizing effective protection across industries. In the 1984 budget
the Government made reductions in public expenditures in line with
Bank recommendations and, to help rationalize future investments,
instituted a Project Review Committee which has reviewed projects
funded under the capital budget.  The Committee has proposed that all
projects be categorized as "core" or "non-core" with the former to
receive full funding and the latter being shelved pending availability
of funds or abandoned. The recommendations of the Review Committee
have to a significant extent taken into account in the 1985 federal
capital budget. Measures to streamline public sector employment have
resulted in a reduction of some 55,000 employees; and a freeze an
public sector salaries and wages has also been introduiced. Together
these measures are estimated to have resulted in a reduction of the



- 7 -
Federal budget deficit from about 23 percent of GDP in 1981 to about 5
percent in 1984. The 1985 budget continues with the policy of
stabilization and the sectoral allocation of public expenditures is
*7nce again in line with the Bank's recommendations. The new
Covernment has also enforced much greater financial discipline on
'tate Governments which has resulted in greater revenue raising
efforts by the states together with improved focus on development
priorities. T._ghter monetary policies including increases of 1.5 to 2
percent in interest rates have also been introduced. With this
progress on fiscal reform, but little progress on incentive reform,
growth would be higher than in the low case, but would result at best
in a stagnation of per capita income.
18.       The three policy scenarios differ more from each other in
their impact on growth than in their impact on Nigeria's ability to
service external debt. This is because in the low and intermediate
cases, lack of confidence on the part of commercial lenders would mean
severely limited access to international borrowing. Of course, if the
moderate fiscal discipline assumed even in the low case is not
maintained, there would be pressure on imports and an eventual risk of
a build-up of trade arrears with a resultant further decline in access
to external credits. At the present time, though, this does not
appear likely, given the Government's firm commitment to austerity.
Under all these scenarios there will be severe liquidity problems over
the next few years, with the debt service ratio likely to range from
39 to 45 percent between 1985 and 1987. Under all the scenarios also,
the debt service ratio begins to decline after 1987. The decline is
somewhat slower -- although still marked -- in the high case, because
with better growth policies, access to international borrowing is
higher. In the high case, the debt service ratio in 1992 would be 22
percent, while in the intermediate and low cases it would be about 10
percent. The volume and composition of Bank lending would be
determined by the policies pursued by the Government -- ranging from
an expanded lending program including a Structural Adjustment Loan in
the high case to a limited program focussing primarily on social and
physical infrastructure in the low case.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1985
amounted to US$2,561.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of
loans and credits disbursed as of March 31, 1985 was US$1, 418.8
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
President's Report for the Borno Water Supply Project
(P-3692-UNI) approved by the Board of Directors on May 7, 1985.



million, leaving an undisbursed balance of US$1,142.2 million.
Agriculture accounts for about 49 percent of total commitments;
transport, power, and water supply together for about 34 percent; and
education, industry, urban, and the post-war rehabilitation loan for
the remaining 17 percent. There have been only two IDA credits to
Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC has made
six loans to borrowers totalling US$24.5 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these amounts, US$7.4
million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
20.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil,
public revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing
projects to run into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank,
the Federal Government, and the relevant state governments are making
concerted efforts to alleviate the situation. The Bank, under the
Special Action Program, reallocated proceeds of several loans and
increased disbursement percentages to speed up disbursements. Working
within the resource constraints (which are likely to continue in the
near future), the Federal Government supplemented the funding for
selected projects for 1984 and has agreed to ensure that adequate
funding will be provided for projects for 1985 on the basis of updated
estimates of funding requirements. The state governments are
instilling a greater degree of discipline in their budgeting processes
and cutting back on new capital expenditures in order to fund existing
obligations. As a result, the prospects for counterpart funding for
Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
21.       Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, the
Bank's lending program would aim primarily at the urgent
diversification of Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive
dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal
revenue. At the same time, the Bank would continue to support efforts
to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby
diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in recent
years, the Bank would continue to provide support for agriculture and
rural development with emphasis on institution-building and transfer
of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal
Government's priorities and with the emphasis it is placing on the
need to use the proceeds of the country's oil revenues to increase the
productive capacity of the economy, and thereby raise the standard of
living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would
similarly support efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated
development of Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would
entail a combination of intensive sector work and policy dialogue with
the Government, as well as Bank assistance for industrial projects in
crucial subsectors.



- 9 -
22.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the
coming two to three years. Effective support for the commodity
producing sectors will also require strategic investment in
production-related infrastructure. There are good opportunities for
the Bank to make a sign'ficant contribution in energy and highway
maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case of continued lending
for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher
training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would
support the Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the
benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some
of the pressing problems of rapid urbarization will continue to be
addressed through a number of urban development projects focussed on
the needs of the urban poor and resource mobilization for urban areas.
The Bank is also assisting the Government in overcoming the country's
health problems with a project aimed at both federal and state
(Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the Government on
population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this area.
23.       Although annual disbursements have increased from
US$52 million in FY1978 to nearly US$272 million in FY1984, Nigeria's
disbursement performance has lagged behind that of other countries in
the region. The undisbursed balance now stands at 45 percent of the
US$2.6 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the reasons for
this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio
since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans, with
relatively large, planned disbursements during the early years, were
extended during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In
many cases, however, disbursements have been slowed by long delays in
loan effectiveness and institutional and management problems.
Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of projects by federal
and state governments, resulting from lower oil revenues, has further
slowed disbursements. The FMGN, with the assistance of the Bank's
Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan disbursements with
a view to identifying problems early and taking corrective action.
Also, the Bank has been taking a series of measures aimed at
accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects
(para. 20). These efforts are showing results.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Trends in Nigeria
24.       Nigeria's 1984 urban population of about 29 million,
some 30 percent of the total, is rising rapidly. It is estimated that
rates of urban growth of between 6 percent and 8 percent will result
in an urban population of over 75 million, or about half the total
Nigerian population, by the year 2000. This growth, once mainly



- 10 -
confined to the largest centers and the traditionally more urbanized
southwest has, in the last ten years, been far more widespread and
caused in large part by migration from rural areas, a trend slowed in
recent years by the economic stagnation.
25.       The main cause of urban migration has been due to relatively
better employment opportunities in urban areas accelerated by the oil
boom of the 1970s. Despite the sizeable urban labor force expansion,
however, an estimated 50 percent of urban residents' incomes fall
below the absolute urban poverty level of about US$700 per capita per
year.
26.       The rapid growth of urban populations has severely strained
the capacity of the institutions responsible for urban management and
has overwhelmed the limited infrastructure networks. Many of the
poorer residential districts have no provision for piped water, storm
water drainage, sewage disposal or public transport. The shortage of
housing is acute at all income levels and overcrowding, which is
commonplace, is rising. It has been estimated that housing
construction would need to average 440,000 a year nationally in the
period 1975-1990 in order to satisfy requirements. Actual housing
construction was probably no more than one quarter of this level
during the period 1975-1983 and, due to current financial constraints,
is not likely to increase.
27.       Imo State, with an area of about 12,700 km2 and an estimated
population of nearly six million, is one of the most densely populated
and urbanized areas of West Africa. Lying in the densely populated
and industrialized southeastern region of Nigeria, between Port
Harcourt, Enugu and Onitsha, it has an average density of more than
450 persons per km2 and more than 50 towns of over 50,000 people.
Densities of 1,200 to 2,000 persons per km2 have been recorded in the
vicinity of major towns.
28.       The pace of urbanization is likely to continue.  The towns
play an important role in the regional economic system. They are
vital market, production, communication, educational, social and
cultural centers, closely linked economically to their rural
hinterland. The towns provide storage, transshipment and distribution
facilities for the agricultural and artisanal products of the
surrounding rural areas and also supply farmers with necessary inputs
to support their production. Above all, they are the dynamic centers
of the cash economy, entrepreneurship and modernization.
29.       The three largest towns in Imo State are:  Owerri, the state
capital; Aba, the main trading and industrial center; and Umuahia, an
important rail link with the north. Because of dislocation caused by
the civil war and the lack of reliable census data, population
estimates are difficult to verify. Current estimates are: Owerri,
180,000; Aba, 450,000; and Umuahia, 90,000. Growth is estimated at



- 11 -
7 percent in Umuahia, 9 percent in Aba, and 10 percent per annum in
Owerri. These towns are clearly major and rapidly growing economic
centers in the state, accounting for over 60 percent of industrial
establishments and a similar percentage of total employment. There
are more than 1,800 registered industries in the state, of which
nearly half are located in Aba. There is demand for serviced sites
for small-scale industries in all three towns.
30.       A large part of public and private sector investment in
reconstruction and development in the nine years since Imo State was
created out of the East-Central State, has been directed to these
towns and resulted in substantial growth in employment. In spite of
the significant investment in urban infrastructure and services, much
of it to repair war damage, supply has not met the backlog and
incremental demand. Projected growth in the state economy and in
urban population will place additional strains on the already
overburdened systems.
31.       Past investments, also, have not benefited all areas within
towns or income groups equally. For example, the extensive road and
drainage reconstruction of the late 1970s in Owerri left pockets of
dense, lower-income neighborhoods, the traditional "village cores",
with poor access and drainage, little water and severe sanitation
problems. The older main market, a major trading center in the state,
was also neglected and is now beset by congestion, poor access and
drainage, and hazardous sanitary conditions. Similarly, the
infrastructure reconstruction programs in Aba did not benefit the
densely-populated area of Ndiegoro, near the main market, and this has
been subject to flooding, poor access and environmentally hazardous
conditions.
32.       Equally imbalanced have been the investments in housing in
the state. Until now, investment in housing has focussed on middle-
and high-income groups while serviced land for low-cost housing is
unavailable close to employment. Rents in the towns are relatively
high and rising. This forces many urban workers to commute from rural
areas, causing them to spend between 25 percent and 50 percent of
their minimum wage on transportation and wasting considerable travel
time. In spite of all the recent construction it is estimated that
the current housing shortfall in Owerri, Aba and Umuahia is 5,000,
14,000 and 3,000 units respectively, virtually all low-cost.
Incremental demand is estimated respectively at 10,250, 24,800 and
4,000 units between 1985 and 1989.
Institutional Framework and Constraints
33.       A number of institutions have been established by the
Federal Government to tackle the complex problems of urban



- 12 -
development. However, the field of responsibility and the
jurisdiction of these public sector institutions are not always
clearly defined and eometimes they overlap.
34.       Responsibility for urban development, planning and most
infrastructure investment rests with the states. The Federal
Government, however, is involved in the provision of major
infrastructure and utility networks of national importance such as
federal highways, waterways, railways, airports, telecommunications
and electricity. Through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH), formerly Ministry of Housing and Environment, it is also
responsible for the formulation of a national policy of urban develop-
ment and housing. As part of this function FMWH is charged with su-
pervising both the Federal Housing Authority (FRA) which is primarily
concerned with middle- and high-income housing, and the Federal
Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). FMBN is responsible for housing
finance, and makes loans directly to individuals as well as to
state-level development agencies.
35.       A central aim of the first Bank-supported urban development
project (Loan 1767-UNI), was to strengthen the planning and project
implementation capability of the FMBN by furnishing technical
assistance in project development, mortgage operations, accounting and
systems management. As a result of this assistance FMBN has gained
experience in project preparation and supervision and now participates
actively in the identification and preparation of new urban projects.
In this capacity it has provided assistance to the states by onlending
funds for urban development feasibility studies which it is also
helping to formulate and supervise.
36.       In Imo State a number of state agencies and local govern-
ments (LGAs) are involved in planning, capital investment,
maintenance, service delivery and revenue collection in the three
major urban areas. Most planning and technical functions have, since
a reorganization in January 1984, been concentrated into the Ministry
of Works and Transport (MWT), which includes Departments of Housing
and Environment; Lands and Survey; and Works, in addition to the
Project Implementation Unit. As such, MWT is responsible for planning
and development control in urban areas, land registration, transport
regulation and licensing, provision and distribution of water,
construction and maintenance of state roads, housing and environmental
control.
37.       MWT is also responsible for two parastatals, the Imo State
Transport Corporation and the Imo State Housing Corporation and
oversees the Owerri Capital Development Authority. The Ministry of
Local Government, which oversees local government administration and
finances in the state, is also responsible for the Imo State



- 13 -
Environmental Sanitation Authority (ISESA) which provides solid waste
management services on behalf of the local governments, presently only
in Owerri, Aba and Umuahia.
38.       There are no separate municipal or town governments, and the
urban areas are administered by the local government authorities
(LGAs) in which they are located. ThLe LGAs constitutionally are
responsible for a broad range of services; from providing and
maintaining local infrastructure and facilities (roads, drains, parks,
markets, etc.) to licensing bicycles and canoes; from the maintenance
of cemeteries to the management of solid waste, rate assessment and
collection. They also share responsibility with the state government,
for providing and maintaining health and education facilities. Their
activities are monitored by the Ministry of Local Government.
39.       In the past local governments have experienced financial
constraints aggravated by limited personnel with suitable management,
technical skills and training. They have been unable to perform even
the most perfunctory infrastructure maintenance functions, let alone
embark on significant capital development. As a result, either state
agencies have taken over particular LGA responsibilities (such as
solid waste management, provision of infrastructure), or services
remain neglected. The Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
set up in 1981, has been successful in dealing with waste collection.
However, its future operational capacity is predicated on availability
of spare parts for its fleet and revenues to enable it to function
without State subventions, which in 1984 were estimated at N 1 million
annually.
Past Initiatives
40.       The Federal Military Government in 1978 handed over the
entire implementation responsibility for housing to the states. At
the same time the Land Use Decree of 1978 was promulgated in which
land allocation authority was vested in the State.
41.       In 1980, because of dissatisfaction with the efforts of
states, a Federal Low-Cost Housing Program was announced by the
civilian government for the construction of 40,000 units per year:
2,000 units in each of the 19 states, plus the Federal Territory of
Abuja. The scale of this program, lack of involvement by state-level
personnel to complement the efforts of Lagos-based Federal Ministry of
Housing and Environment (FMHE) staff in its implementation, poor
coordination and cost control, delayed the program, led to cost
overruns and effectively prevented FMHE from performing its main
policy and program functions. Less than one year's planned program
had been achieved by early 1984, when construction was suspended.



- 14 -
42.       The Federal Government has still to formulate a
comprehensive and coherent policy framework within which to cast its
urban development strategy. In its efforts to define clearly the
difficult issues of incentives and controls, standards for shelter and
infrastructure, cost recovery, subsidization and the identification of
priority target groups, the Government has solicited the assistance
and collaboration of the Bank. As part of its sector work program the
Bank has already opened a dialogue with Government on the
compatibility of the various federal and state initiatives.
Recent Imo State Government Initiatives
43.       In January 1984, after the coup the new Imo State Government
inherited a difficult financial situation: declining revenues, a
large foreign and local debt, a backlog of overdue payments to
suppliers, contractors and civil servants' wages, and a stagnant
economy. To overcome the severe financial constraints, the Imo State
Government embarked on a program of austere budgeting on the one hand,
and on seeking additional local revenues on the other. Recurrent
expenditures have been trimmed through the releasing of redundant
staff and "ghost workers", while capital expenditure has been limited
to priority projects. State subsidies and subventions to parastatals
were reduced and revenues mobilized.
44.       Results have been impressive.  Revenues in the first five
months of 1984 were reported 240 percent higher than in the
corresponding period in 1983. Efforts are being made to introduce
user fees for urban services such as solid waste collection, and for
hitherto free social services such as education and health care.
45.       Additional improvements, however, depend on greater adminis-
trative efficiency and financial control at both the State and LGA
levels. Greater emphasis should be placed on operations and
maintenance of existing assets while investments in neglected high
priority services and infrastructure should be programmed.
Constraints to productive enterprises, particularly those low-capital,
small-scale units with many forward and backward economic linkages,
should be removed wherever possible. To help alleviate some of these
problems, the Imo State Government is participating in a Bank-assisted
project of technical and financial assistance to small and medium
businesses (Loan 2376-UNI).
Bank Assistance Strategy
46.       Bank urban assistance strategy in Imo State has focussed on
the folloving key issues: an imbalanced state investment program that
overly emphasized capital-intensive and social programs while
neglecting to develop sound financing practices, and high levels of



- 15 -
subventions for housing (particularly for higher income groups).
Improving access to reliable, basic services and utilities is a
fundamental need if the economic growth of Imo State is to be
maintained. Given the poor level of services in many areas, it is
also seen as a necessary prerequisite for public acceptance of
measures to increase tax revenues.
Experience of the Bauchi Project
47.       The Bank's involvement in Nigeria's urban sector began
within the framework of the Nigerian States Urban Development Program
(NSUDP), which has been incorporated in the Federal Government's
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1981-85). Under this program, a
pilot first project was funded and is being executed in Bauchi State,
providing sites and services and area upgrading in Bauchi and Gombe,
technical assistance at state and federal levels, and funds for
feasibility studies in seven other states. 1/
48.       The Bauchi project (Loan 1767-UNI), approved in 1979 and
scheduled for completion in 1985, is considered to be a success by the
Federal as well as the Bauchi State Governments. It has already
demonstrated the feasibility of providing affordable shelter,
infrastructure and related urban services to low-income households.
Initially plagued by administrative and start-up delays and
subsequently constrained by counterpart funding problems, the project
is progressing satisfactorily. In the upgrading areas, about
6,000 families, one quarter of Bauchi's population, have benefited
from improved basic infrastructure such as roads, drains, water supply
and electricity. In the site and services areas some 1,850 of the
2,050 plots have been allocated and beneficiaries are building
low-cost houses with FMBN loan funds and other savings. Cost recovery
from these sites and services beneficiaries iB satisfactory and
repayments are not in arrears.
49.       Lessons learned from the Bauchi project have been applied in
the present project. To avoid start-up delays, all major contracts
have been awarded, more than 60 percent of counterpart funding has
been spent or deposited in the Project Account by the Imo State
Government (ISG), and the implementation unit (PIU) is fully staffed.
1/ Imo, Benue, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Gongola and Niger.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin and Objectives
50.       The proposed project was first identified in October 1977 by
a Bank mission which visited Nigeria to assess the scope for Bank
assistance. Subsequently, the Imo State Government engaged
consultants to prepare a feasibility study which was completed in
July 1980. The project was appraised in September 1980 and negotiated
in July 1981. However, the project was not presented for Board
approval at that time because Imo State had failed to provide
counterpart funds for the Imo Oil Palm Project (Loan 1191-UNI), and
because of Bank concerns about the ability of Imo State to fund this
and other pressing development needs. Recently, the State satisfied
all of its obligations under the Oil Palm Project and has undertaken a
wide-ranging program of financial reforms. Outstanding conditions for
Board presentation were met in early 1984, and the Staff Appraisal
Report (3295-UNI), and loan documents were updated and amended to
reflect changes in the project implementation, costs, financing plan,
and institutional framework. However, further delays in loan
processing were due to the new Federal Military Government's
assessment of all proposed loans in its portfolio, including those
from the World Bank. In October 1984 the FMGN gave the go ahead for
this project.
51.       The project has two major aims:
At the Federal Level: to continue the long-term objective
of the Nigerian States Urban Development Program by
strengthening Government's capability for policy formu-
lation, program monitoring and evaluation, and extending
project preparation assistance to the states;
At the Imo State Level:
(a) to extend the demonstration begun in Bauchi of a
replicable approach to providing shelter and related
services that is affordable by the low-income urban
population; and
(b) to strengthen institutional capacity in the State to
carry out future low-income urban development projects,
while improving the local financial resource base.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
52.       The project would redress past investment imbalances by
focusing primarily on the provision of improved infrastructure systems
and services for lower-income, neglected areas of the project towns
and meet some of the backlog in demand for serviced plots for



- 17 -
residential, mixed and small-scale enterprise use for lower income
groups. This should encourage economic activity, raise productivity
and justify the introduction and improvement of cost recovery
mechanisms for urban infrastructure and services. Improved financial
management, revenue collection and maintenance are critical to the
State's and LGAs' efforts to plan, program and maintain urban
investments without overrelying on external financial resources.
Neither the State nor the Federal Government has sufficient resources
and technical skills necessary to plan, coordinate, finance, and
implement a low-cost scheme of the type proposed. Because of its oil
revenues, Nigeria has, in the past 10 years been a low priority
country for most bilateral assistance programs.   Furthermore, the
type of investments proposed, with a relatively low foreign content
for both goods and services, is not very attractive to commercial or
export credit sources.
Project Concept and Summary Description
53.       The principal focus of the project would be to alleviate the
serious housing shortage in Imo's major towns through the development
of some 8,500 plots for residential, mixed and small-scale industrial
use in Owerri, Obioma NgwalAba and Umuahia for low-income groups.
Plots would be serviced with the full range of urban infrastructure
and utilities such as roads, drainage, water supply, electricity and
refuse collection, located within well-planned communities.
Supporting community facilities such as schools, health clinics and
community centers would also be constructed. The three areas are
expected to accommodate about 60,000 beneficiaries and meet some
25 percent of the projected demand for housing in the three towns in
the coming five years. Families would be able to choose the most
appropriate of five plot sizes according to their family income.
54.       The project would provide serviced sites for small-scale
businesses within the project areas in all three towns. More than
1,000 sites would be provided in total, of which two-thirds would be
designed for mixed residential/business use. Businesses locating on
these plots would have access to credit facilities and to technical
assistance furnished within the context of a small- and medium scale
enterprise project, that is being developed with Bank assistance in
Imo State (para. 45).
55.       To ameliorate the particularly acute problems caused by
overcrowding and inadequate infrastructure in Owerri, five traditional
village cores would be upgraded to improve the physical layout and by
providing access to roads, drainage, electric power, water and sanita-
tion facilities. The areas affected at present accommodate some
16,000 people in about 1,200 dwellings. In Aba, about 9,000 residents
living in environmentally hazardous and frequently flooded areas in a



- 18 -
high-density, residential neighborhood (Ndiegoro) near the town center
and main market, would be provided with drainage, roads and water
reticulation. Home improvement and reconstruction loans would be
offered to residents of the affected communities, particularly for
construction of sanitary facilities and connections to water networks
and sewerage facilities.
56.       To complement the development of physical infrastructure,
loans for the improvement and construction of shelter would be offered
to project beneficiaries by the Imo branch of the FMBN. It is
estimated that about 75 percent of the households locating in site and
service areas would take up construction loans ranging from
US$3,900 to USS8,600 depending on family income and plot size. Using
some self-help labor, these loans would suffice for the construction
of a minimum two-room shelter on a plot of 200 square meters with
individual water connection and septic tank. Households in the
upgraded area of Owerri would have access to loans ranging from
US$930 to US$1,600 for purposes of repair and reconstruction.
57.       Finally, the project would provide technical assistance to
key federal, state and local institutions with the aim of enhancing
their planning and project implementation capabilities. At the
federal level, funds would be provided for FMBN to extend the program
initiated under the first urban project, t1hrough which the Project
Development Department (PDD) assisted states in identifying, preparing
and financing urban development feasibility studies. In addition,
sector studies and surveys would also be undertaken. Training in key
areas of program formulation and coordination, project analysis and
administration would also be provided for FMWH and FMBN staff. Under
the Bauchi Urban Project FNBN agreed to discuss with the Bank by
September 1985, recommendations of a study concerning FMBN's
operational policies and procedures.
58.       Technical assistance to the state and local governments
would be related more specifically to project implementation and
maintenance. Finance would be provided for 30 man-months of
consultant services to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
within the Imo Ministry of Works and Transport, ir start-up
activities, accounting, planning and project supervision. The bulk of
these consultant services would be for engineering supervision. A
further 36 man-months of consultant services would be provided to
local governments to assist with environmental sanitation cost
recovery, equipment and infrastructure maintenance, property tax
administration, and the training of local government administrative
staff. The project would also finance studies and priority action
plana related to flood control in Aba and market facilities in Owerri.
Equipment, vehicles and spares for maintenance and solid waste col-
lection would also be financed through the project.



- 19 -
Project Cost
59.       Total costs for the project period 1985-1989 (including
duties and taxes of US$4.1 million) are estimated at US$85.0 million
of which the foreign exchange component would amount to 43 percent or
US$36.7 million. A breakdown of cost by major category is given in
the loan ard the project summary. Civil works costs are based on
actual tenders already awarded. An allowance has been made for
physical contingencies equivalent to 10 percent of base costs for
civil works and buildings. Price contingencies for foreign costs
allow for a rise in the annual rate of international inflation from
3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1984, 9 percent per annum
thereafter. Price contingencies for local costs are estimated at
22 percent in 1984 and 14 percent per annum thereafter. On the basis
of these considerations, total contingencies are estimated at
US$21.6 million - some 34 percent of base costs.
Project Financing and Flow of Funds
60.       The proposed IBRD loan of US$53 million would finance
62.4 percent of total project cost (65.6 percent of the total cost net
of taxes). The IBRD share would cover disbursements of 100 percent of
estimated foreign costs (US$36.7 million) and US$16.3 million of local
costs. Retroactive financing, to cover costs eligible for IBRD
funding incurred from September 1, 1980, is estimated at approximately
US$5.3 million. Retroactive financing would cover disbursements for
detailed design, engineering and preparation of tender documents,
technical assistance for start-up activities at the state level since
first project appraisal, and some civil and building works
construction, begun in June 1984 to avoid further delays due to rains.
61.       The remaining project cost would be financed by the FMBN and
the Imo State Government. Their contributions would amount to
US$21.1 million (24.8 percent of total project cost) and
US$10.9 million (10.8 of total project cost) respectively. The Imo
State Government has already spent more than US$2.7 million of their
contribution on the project. To ensure adequacy of counterpart
funding it has also deposited the equivalent of US$3.7 million up to
the end of 1984 into the project account. It is estimated that, to
meet its counterpart funding obligations, the State will need an
additional US$4.5 million equivalent (approximately) spread as
follows: US$2.0 million in 1985; US$1.2 million in 1986; and
US$0.5 million in 1987. In addition, the State will have to continue
to provide for operating expenses of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) over the life of the project. Assurances were obtained from ISG
that budgetary provisinns would be made to cover these financial
commitments.



- 20 -
62.       At the time the project was prepared in 1979-1981, the
prospects for securing cofinancing were limited and were therefore not
considered determining factors in project design. Nigeria, relatively
flush with oil revenues, was at that time a low priority country for
most bilateral assistance programs, and the relatively low foreign
exchange content for goods and services in this kind of project is not
attractive to commercial or export credit sources.
63.       The equivalent of US$53.0 million is to be lent by the IBRD
to the Federal Government. Out of the proceeds of this loan, the
Federal Government would onlend the equivalent of US$16.3 million to
the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). FMBN would repay the loan
over 20 years including 5 years grace at the same rate as the IBRD
loan (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). This was agrzed during
negotiations to allow FMBN, whose effective onlending rate is 13.6
percent, a significant spread over the cost of its borrowings to
enable it to develop a better financial base and to devote more
attention to housing projects for lower incame groups. This
US$16.3 million would be used by FMBN in part (US$13.1 million) to
finance home construction and improvement loans associated with the
project (paras. 66 and 69), and the remainder for states urban
feasibility studies and sector consulting services.
64.       The remaining equivalent of US$36.7 million out of the
proceeds of the IBRD loan would be channelled through FMBN and onlent
to the Imo State Government (ISG) on the same terms as those of the
IBRD loan to the Federal Government (Section 2.01(b) of the FMBN
Project Agreement). Of these funds, approximately US$22.5 million
would be earmarked for on-site infrastructure, detailed design, and
supervision. The remainder US$14.2 million would be used by ISG for
off-site infrastr.jeture, upgrading and commmuity facilities (paras. 69
and 71).
65.       It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that
Subsidiary Loan Agreements be executed between the Federal Government
and FMBN and between the FMBN and Imo State in a form acccptable to
the Bank (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreeme:Qt).
Project Implementation
66.       At the Federal level the principal project implementing
agency would be the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) subject to
the overall supervision of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH).  The FMBN would be responsible primarily for financing of
housing loans in the sites and services areas and home improvement and
reconstruction loans in the upgrading areas. At the Imo State level
the Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT), through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), would be responsible for project



- 21 -
coordination and execution. The PIU, which was established at the end
of 1981, is fully staffed and operates a separate project account.
Tenders for civil and building works have been awarded, wich B.nk
concurrence under advance contracting procedures, and construction has
started. Advanced contracting was authorized to avoid further delays
due to the onset of the rainy season.
67.       Below the state level, the Local Government Authorities
would have an important role to play in terms of community
organization and in the mobilization of population support for the
development effort. Furthermore, local services must be delivered
effectively to the project area. To strengthen administrative and
technical capabilities, the LGAs would be provided with technical
assistance in the field of tax administration and financial
management, accounting and maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment. They would also be involved in the beneficiary selection
process through Local Committees to be established by
September 30, 1985 (Section 2.01(d) of Imo State Project Agreement).
68.       A project executive committee has been established to
coordinate project activities at different levels and to provide the
project director of PIU with guidance on those aspects of project
implementation that touch upon the broader community Interest. The
co-mitte- would be chaired by the project director and would include
representatives from other pertinent state ministries as well as
representatives from those federal and local goverment agencies that
participate in the project. The Urban Development Project Executive
Committee (UDPEC) would be established by September 30, 1985 (Section
2.01(c) of the Imo State Project Agreement). The committee would also
preside over the selection of project beneficiaries by lottery and
would determine the allocatlon of plots amongst beneficiaries.
Cost Recovery
69.       There is little or no tradition of cost recovery in Nigeria
for infrastructure services provided by the public sector.
Nevertheless, following the policy established in the Bauchi project,
the proposed project would incorporate provisions for the recovery of
all land and on-site infrastructure costs for the components involving
the development of newly serviced plots, which represent more than 70
percent of total project costs. Occupants would repay these costs in
monthly mortgage payments to the FMBN over 15 years, at an interest
rate of 9.5 percent. In order to recover administrative costs, a
3 percent mortgage service charge applied on the original loan amount
and recoverable over the life of the project, has been incorporated
into the effective interest rate structure. The effective interest
rate charged to all beneficiaries would thus average about 13.64
percent.



- 22 -
70.       The combined effective interest rate is below the projected
annual inflation rate of 14 percent and is less than the average rate
experienced over the past three years (about 19 percent). The rate to
be charged is, however, considerably higher than that charged under
the federal housing program, or FNBN's social loan schemes (between
6 percent and 9.5 percent) aimed at income ranges much higher than
those of the proposed project's target population. It is also in line
with the generp.l structure of interest rates prevailing in Nigeria
today and compares favorably with the commercial lending rate charged
by FMBN, currently 13.0 percent. Interest rates are fixed each year
by the Central Bank of Nigeria and could not be changed in the context
of this project.
71.       A decision on an appropriate mechanism for the recovery of
costs incurred by the State for the components involving
infrastructure improvements (upgrading) in already built-up areas
(representing about 7 percent of total project costs) will be made
after a study, to be financed through the project, is carried out.
The study will examine alternative methods and devise a mechanism for
the recovery of upgrading costs that will be both effective and
equitable. Agreement was reached with the Imo State Government at
negotiations that the cost of upgrading will be effectively recovered
from the ultimate beneficiaries. The cost recovery system will be
determined in agreement with the Bank in the light of recommendations
made by the study, which should be completed by the end of 1985 and
this would be a loan covenant (Section 4.03 of FMBN Project
Agreement).
72.       In general, the cost of off-site infrastructure and
community facilities, not being allocable to specific residential
plots, would not be recovered. The cost of these investments,
including education and health facilities, would be borne by the State
Government and paid out of general revenues. It is expected that some
costs would be recovered indirectly after ISG introduces/increases
school fees, rates and taxes. Thus, of total prolect costs, some 70
percent would be recovered from beneficiaries directly, a further 7
percent indirectly, and eventually, about 5 percent from school fees,
rates and taxes.
73.       The proposed urban project is unlikely to be a strain on Imo
State's financial resources. The state's required counterpart capital
contribution, the balance of which is only about US$4.5 million, will
be easily financed from its domestic surplus resources. The required
amounts are to be spread over four years and will never exceed
2 percent of total capital available for investment. The incremental
recurrent expenditure not covered by user charges will represent an
insignificant proportion of the state's recurrent expenditure.



- 23 -
Procurement
74.       Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Method         Value of
Items to be Procured         ICB        LCB     Other      N/A   Contracts
Civil Works b/              33.9        4.0       -         -       37.9
(27.2)     (3.2)                        (30.4)
Social Facilities b/         -          6.9       -                  6.9
(3.5)                        (3.5)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans           -          -         -        32.7 c/  32.7
(13.1)   (13.1)
Start-up Costs (PIU)         -          -         0.6       -        0.6
(0.6)              (0.6)
T.A. and Studies (Imo)       -          -          0.6      -         0.6
(0.6)              (0.6)
Vehicles and Equipment       1.3        0.4        -        -         1.7
(1.3)     (0.3)                         (1.6)
States Studies, FMBN         -          -         4.6       -        4.6
(3.2)              (3.2)
Total Financing Required   35.2        11.3       5.8      32.7     85.0
(28.5)     (7.0)      (4.4)   (13.1)   (53.0)
a/ Contingencies are included in the amounts shown. Amounts enclosed
in parentheses indicate amount of IBRD participation.
b/ Design and supervision costs of civil and building works included.
c/ Beneficiaries of home construction and improvement loans would
be selected on the basis of agreed criteria and therefore not
subject to procurement procedures.



- 24 -
Disbursements
75.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over the period
L985-1989. Disbursements would be made against 80 percent of expendi-
tures for civil works relating to on-site and off-site infrastructure
and upgrading in Owerri, Aba and Umuahia and against 50 percent of
expenditures for community facilities.  Total disbursements for such
items are estimated at US$29.7 million. Disbursements would be made
against the full foreign exchange cost of technical assistance to the
FMWR, Imo State and local authorities for consultant services and
studies nud 70 percent of local expenditures. Total disbursements for
these purposes are estimated at US$7.5 million. Disbursement would also
be made against 40 percent of the loans issued by FMBN for home
improvement and home construction in the project areas subject to an
aggregate limit of US$13.9 million. The full foreign expenditure cost
of directly imported vehicles and equipment would be financed or, if
they are locally procured, 70 percent of the total cost would be
eligible for reimbursement. An allocation of US$1.8 million has been
made for this purpose. An additional provision of US$5,300,d00 has been
made on an unallocated basis. Retroactive finance amounting to some
US$5.3 million is recommended to cover project unit start-up costs,
detailed design engineering, supervision, Aba flooded area study from
September 1, 1980 and some initial civil works begun in June 1984.
Reimbursement for FMBN home construction and improvement loans, civil
works contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent and other contracts of
less than US$10,000 equivalent, would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures. Amounts so disbursed would be subject to special
auditing provisions.
Economic Benefits
76.       The overall economic rate of return for the serviced sites and
upgrading components of the project is estimated at approximately
27 percent. The economic rate of return is probably understated because
benefits were calculated on the basis of rental values prevailing in
neighborhoods that are due for upgrading. The value of property in such
neighborhoods is probably less than that to be located in the proposed
site and services scheme. Sensitivity tests show that a 20 percent
change in the overall balance of benefits affect the rate of return by
about 33 percent either way. These tests indicate that the project
would still be economically viable if achievements are significantly
less than anticipated.
77.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be drawn from the
lowest income groups. Some 80 percent of project beneficiaries would be
families below the estimated relative urban poverty threshold of
US$700 per capita and some 70 percent of total project expenditures
excluding technical assistance would be targeted at this income group.
By raising significantly the living conditions of these families; the
proposed project would have a substantial poverty impact.



- 25 -
78.       The economic benefits that would accrue to the residents of
the flooded areas of Aba and of the village cores to be upgraded in
Owerri have not been estimated because of their intangible nature. The
health and welfare impact, in addition to physical service improvements,
would be considerable. At a broader level, the successful implementa-
tion of this project would further reinforce the successes of the Bauchi
project in demonstrating viable solutions to the shelter and infrastruc-
ture problems associated with rapid urbanization elsewhere in Nigeria.
79.       In this regard, the institution building objectives of this
project assume particular importance. Technical assistance to the FMBN
and FMWH would play a critical role in facilitating the establishment of
a sector-wide policy at the federal level.
Project Risks
80.       Because of its still innovative nature, this project inevita-
bly brings with certain risks associated with the introduction of
relatively new project concepts to Imo State. However, experience
gained in the implementation of the Bauchi Project has been used to
minimize these risks. In addition, the project unit is fully staffed,
counterpart funding is assured and all major civil and building works
contracts have been awarded.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of
Nigeria and the Bank, the draft FMBN Project Agreement between the Bank
and the FMB`N, the draft Imo State Project Agreement between the Bank and
Imo State, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articl&s of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. Conditions of loan effectiveness include
execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and FMBN
and between FMBN and Imo State (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
84.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 28, 1985



- 27 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA                - SOCIAL INDICATOPS DATA SNHeE
NIGERIA                              REVERE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERUI)U
HOST                (MST RZCETr ESTIMATE) lb
tw/b    19EOb RECENT             "lo w. NC              NDDOLE INOco
96W__    ,,OLk    ESTIMATE-    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA I HILD EAST
ARE  (TOUSAND SQ. M)
TOTAL                               923.6       923.5       923.8
AGRLCULTURAL                        471.0       497.4       511.1                  -
CP rU CArITA (USS)                     200.0       330.0       860.0             1112.9                 1149.6
r_UrY COUE?fPTU MM CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        20.0         35.0      141.0              529.0                  622.1
POPATWO  AlND VIL SWATISTICS
PUPULATIONUMIu-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   51598.0     66382.0    90572.0
URBAN POPULATION (z OF TOTAL)        13.1         16.4       21.4               29.7                   48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                            369.3
STATONARfY POPULATION (HILL)                              637.7
POPULATION GHOENTM                                          2.0
POPULATION DENSrIT
PER SQ. IN.                        55.9         73.6       94.8               55.8                   36.3
PER SQ. DI. AGRI. LAND            109.6       133.0       170.7             311.5                   46l.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (t)
0-14 YRS                          45.4         46.6       47.8               45.4                   43.6
15-64 IRS                          52.3        53.0        49.8               51.7                   53.1
65 AND ABOVE                        2.3         L4          *.4                2.9                    3.3
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.*4         L5         2.6                2.6                    2.8
URBAN                               4.7         4.7         4.9                5.2                    4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         52.0        50.7        49.5               47.0                   40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THotS)         25.3        20.8        36.2               35.2                   31.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4        3.4                3.2                    2.8
FAMILY PLANNINC
AACCEFTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           .          7.6
USERS (I OF HARRIED  OE)             ..          ..         6.0                 ..                   22.2
M AIND NUErrTO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       100.0       102.0        92.0               91.6                   97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CT OF REQUIREIENTS)       83.0         84.0       91.0               98.2                  110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          45.0         45.0        49.0               56.7                   70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        30.0         11.0       11.0 /i            31.0                   37.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          50.0        34.0        20.0               28.7                   34.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        38.7        43.7        49.6               53.7                   57.5
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THODS)       190.0       154.0       109.0              102.7                  101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..               35.6                   59.7
URRAN                                ..          ..          ..               54.1                   84.5
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..               27.3                   38.4
ACCESS TO EXLRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..          ..                 .                      .
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          73710.0     24670.0    12550.0 Id          1194.-3                 4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            4040.0 I.   5070.0      3010.0 rd          2248.9                 1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            3020.0 If   2220.0      1180.0 Id           986.9                  632.9
UREAM                             43o.o 7c    490.0       370.0 7            368.7                  545.5
RURAL                           25630.0      18490.0     5490.01I           4012.1                 2513.5
ADMrISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..          ..          ..                 .                    26.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SUZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URIAN                                ..         4.7 /h
RURAL..                                                                         .                      .
AVERAGE NM. OF PERSONS/ROCP
TOrAL                                                     ..                ..
URBAN                               3.0         2.2 lh
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. tI OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..                 .                    46. Z
URBN                               813         62.4 /h       ..                 ..                   77.7
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                 ,.                   16.3



- 28 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NIGCRIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 8HEET
NIGERIA                              REPRESNCE GROUPS (WEIXGIHTD AVERAGES) Le
MOST                (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) lb
RECENT       MIDDLE IlCZK            MIDDLE INCOME
L96/b_   im0bLk    cETmiAYfIk   AFnICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EST
EDUCATON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    36.0         37.0        98.0 Li           91.0                    88.3
MALE                    46.0         47.0          ..               90.5                   102.5
FEtALE                  27.0         27.0          ..               73.6                   73.6
SECONIDARY: TOTAL                   4.0          4.0        16.0 /1            17.4                   43.0
MALE                     6.0          6.0          ..               23.7                    52.3
FINALE                   1.0          3.0          ..               14.8                   33.0
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)           4.6          8.5         3.1 /1.j          5.3                    10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0         34.0         ..                38.6                   30.3
SECONDARY                          19.0         21.0         ..                24.3                   23.1
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (1)              15.4 /a        .         34.0               35.6                   43.5
consUMrTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           0.6          0.9         1.4 /A           20.7                    17.8
RADIO RECEIVERSITROUSAND POP          2.8         19.3       66.1              10D.8                   138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.0          1.1         5.3               18.5                   46.1
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             5.5          4.8         6.9 /             17.2                   31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..          0.0 7d            D.3                     1.7
LABOR Oce
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         21788.0      25992.0    32478.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3         40.6       39.7               33.8                    10.8
AGRICLLTrUOE (PERCENT)             71.0         62.0        54.0               57.1                   42.4
IMDUSrRY (PERCENT)                 10.0         14.0        19.0              17.4                    27.9
PARIICIFATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              42.2         39.3        35.9               36.3                   26.2
MALE                               50.3         47.3        43.7               47.6                   46.4
FEMALE                             34.4         31.5        28.2               25.1                    5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1          1.2         1.4               1.4                     1.8
INCOME DISRIUBUTIOM
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Y OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOwEST 401 DF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
POVERTY TA        CRODPS
ESTIMATED ABSDLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       696.0             525.3                   274.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       341.0              249.0                   177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        621.0             477.4                   402.6
RURAL                                ..          ..       207.0              186.0                   284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
/   The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted arithmecic means. Coverage of countries amng the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dats for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -MEst Recent Estltte- between 1980 and 1982.
/c 1977; /d 1979; /e 1962; /f Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration; /g 1976; /h 1972; /i 1979;
/L  Certain fields of study previously classified ugder otber secoand level education of vocetLonal or technical
nature are now reported under general educatlon.
JUNE, 1984



-29-                                                                     ANE 
-IsLQM                                       ~~~Page 3 of 5
ta".I Alituslb It au.. sea tic  ira Sara  samIsi  laigsl im -s   abaiaa  at notiS., Is as-ti  L.. be asse Stat Sb. aspec  ta illosrwa.Ssiat
= Joaisth  baas. a  st l-0 Ci c.e-.atsaai d.icl.11a.S SeaSaps1 ces  kr tsi.scc't Abmiss  Sc .sS..S  S                  .  Wt. ices  -i,ca..ls    ac  Sc
basltb. ci... si sarsle,f. se.da-. Se.ai. Sat c               -".S.ela   cari .,c a ar isieimo  Wstma  arts,ia
7Th. ci.ra.a  racifci. SuI  b  ca cindrsi a"`  or    SutSi    sclc r at 4  2 (Et  SSyA-  hi-P cast -.e5  tLIRec ca.c1es S.c       It.  5  a'assLy dgocap  Wa-
stcc   ae. I-sa     'RIOsu  Ses   555 Repattcs sa    r.- *lSiSdi. Iq-u  tilt APr15 55 SSStti* IRA.'5  Ic ihac  been. at alraSci ecal,-uslscr
se  Te.As.Wic  _bec  tei _cse   Sa..s Sb. cccc.ds eS aa,.crga    -Sbfil Sasac      .       - 9  1k sslastltsa aW  t.c  aid     -.laise  asic  -s  be.
*aaisaflIs v5.51 t sstt5   i-.   Ias-scI aabe    b.Mcil   r  at.sca =1IPIII aeiu   et - aSic kg.  -1 SIacac  e tlu   s..s.  se-                  a-P   a
U=6    L.tI-  a.1te   -t--           ldlg:.          %I.V- - P                  1'.1      4. A.M.11     inifla. - Parlcssa        tiscit raIlt at. p-mg`slAm
7~jfl- ~act acccca  rac rc.rlsce Sa  cnccci ateet cScc.  Sil.  ~  liq~lifatJS a a  l.Sa  coal -1 ssSa.iaslem Pcat. M
jil..act tll is.                                                      Pulsata~i isascq  erca- iclSuIowiaasii Th te taP 1 pcutlm
bce -.l*.eut- auiasaci sssclsas  cic  assssaiial S s psuauaS 5  ~   et lasS  aut.cc  crac*  sSSac  cas. rcsISt sn..sa
esca. rcaaefls.asita  cci blub, teitsu  - is ISaSuStaci 101.  c.ic5  seSsISeus ."                             t   .
;gIpol-                                                       =     91~~~~as  m      alisclua    ..ptct. M aa-VeA I Itaatct  -at it a
(crpTcuesal.a  iS  cqS'.- aa.l  ircse  scssaeI o W cr ee .cIst .               att-I ...e..   -a. .idslass  asare  be. c.  aqtolm Eta be a tssaS 
oilaciecuistci          tSct.  i         94s. rtuc  usilsa  ctTric.usSs                   sscSSac, uia.  alia. sudtoatiut asfc  saetcuas-t                     a
-   W.   I . I1 & IW. tore, at tut          il
ssiaiss&caiucm  P cts  ien-~  irc. an.nstte c  as                       a  abZ   aCe" -as".  a lacitar   a   I lan  -, a ya W  be sai"Wi S.
.    aau,Iftsesa  1151, sill, atW    ista ...S.  hobautc1i Psi asasSata  pciiaa
iacctcutaarnla-eesca1om     IU                                              bais  aa   tsgc   aiia-rs                   au5    e ioaia  fl
sasSclsab    c L W      5t us. a  afta l    cbi5 ia nht-      r LIttl,   iansct .11aftosj  ssS                                      -ains  ssssa
Sea . aec  tata apiaasaacc      israt 1 taaau  cut  &.-.A.  sitcg...I.  asceiccscsaSt-as.55.9cis-t-ic 
ca-Ist  ulsa  5. iailt   ceiia  .Su..Sa   atisiat
itc -teai-ci-&-a-Iea--Iiss. 5-abaasscuadcus   cbsuSa
fl   -Icsca - sa .ctce-Isas  tastabscaaabi   aats                                                            saata  -t Ge,eae,  eta cat Paa_
icsta   e  tbu  scac a Sun a.sa. f   L-ts  ca -cracti           Z icillSeif                  "ItFi.siil          1-   Scat  .. a   -iac l.ctqcsia
a'a".ataW sti   its .at c.  [teiats,  Sbtntrt cc-  cutccI.                              an    e   tastinitse   ss.at n-c'                     aesePc
-  sac  L la dca cb. ci  -acaec' SasS.. sus. .        sat cP-cuscl-  e-l* alasa-icatsantc qcs                                           5 ileca
uSe ba it  sa.   eta  1eilleaa W-           ft- calca- a  taint. 1--.                             ,                          -Pisea eW eetsse
cc.aca  sesecc.a5   esscicc  si ts-scbicstu..e ..s..l.a..as
ua,ca Z.4    casa5  t  ur~i   eai-acd   tM                                          tcatesaiiu.  ir..  caactrc-cca.leiei
S.a5ars-a l~tG. tle.,ma  misS icac.                                                 bililcea  i. laW         ulltit    t.ScIta  .ra2cccea
i.fct    a ucclua I.asL  6.ce -          s a.a eA  ciicua Ilseic'aca   i  ..  ae  cetccastI  acaa ce
iuilces   -nstSaeicaaattj mct   - al aerh a-p-tirce1  i                           citjesce aattaceaa-.I .,
,s.a                                tii.S.cl.,f                                  Setia tacal.aa Sac ALcsi  niss    ABS  ec..i naa               n Pd.c iaite
icacaa  ca  Mcc puusal- cts- saabjiaa   -s-        racsbstcs -  ffuais` i-lt    L-c f- atistaasaciss
Cessa ant lute Psi, cbaaaaatl - N.sa5   Hee  sic' ctasiLse P-am  ad--s             Sc sttsic;IcaS Mfas   -n V.     -    -ao   sarsi utua ac
usc- iccalati. ta,-ttiltas                                                                 eea  Sstiaaatj
,-sIt,aSlac   set,u, as aw Fc.                                                            aapia.ieeba-aL-Ss   ctiacteaaiWeecr
:as W-satauc.9  cc.. - Anna ase  aS desean  Snk.4   stat cae  aa   m                                  MS ruAcaft  -iscsca  ltue                    auL siuan.d9 o,
istliy  'atmal0  ssaecITI.pastrsc  110   ct.-                                             ceucs' e  cla  uss  Stne  uacst    ata       asitits
tile.                                                       sititeaala iscacat re~~~~Ituscit   c - pacil  p sisc  -.I Se t arct
iaact. cst.. - sasacca.  s-st tcbaccei -  asal s-s   ar eanaact  as 5 -AstIr-Ii Ic Scsa a  taac isF-   sas a mat
at  acs-Sesa  .ucs  cae sasa  i cala-  Pale  istilPM,                        CIcaus c-sc cacaI,c     -     1 a. Luc Scar a tact a7 eta  1e S..
isSac ileusce c tanfeec sce aCuscctat aus c---Aicac-aila.i asides               'ta_c   ._Sa
tat-bem   u              P- Saani   -aa-  el-c, ctI-Alt.u 'gm                        taclIta  rae   i-ctc-tibt,me'  icu.sa.ia 
IP       -L eBS euffdtTes                                                                aa.ta    u    tr -`_T--%I till dcct-
tuc  ci.a  cr-iPect s.c -crse LeisclilS  -L. otais  . is, antis                            L"jj~~-astl           tas ao isaaa..  Sc   aep
saas  aedil cLal at icecS-is.   casasescat to. cCcs  eadcdfPina  aac,tceeasi
i-bat-      alsic  use. s-ta  ~ttsM            scptceat(a.                             ssi        isuoteaelt   scals,ststtledc
ta -.t -uslm  eaI         maca - sass,  "bS       ""til -se   Su   su!s   uie
ccc's-aa.  ast sisla..    F"sc acsc   racanaset   Geap"a,Id ir                    saea  es--s-  caL..catct -  sat ask.          Psi  tae Sun.. -
cue-sicasasci e  aD ..    ,Au etcati :tac   met. insaint                                 -      tat  -Lt.     a   iiacu    b   i   ta sad=s 
neuara  eettst.ca        i-acW  eaieecaun. bear , a 1sac7                     ibaPIi,a-11      1ccca. di. i  ea  t 11-51
asmasel tea . na-c,,                  -A-         d ace. as lime....              j               tuucir
tIl . c a.ccs a  ccelrusect  n ic  at 1  jima at-                               wa- St as7                          fb     -    L   -   -   f    .
sum  aaaa, .5silt  IS  ema  tai be  tat  ntel.  ltea          esel cs_  "s-il                             t.
,oow I          L.                   0ttaeds a"la.odU.
_ldS-W-,ba  eataebat-ct!tat   ne-ca   cSsmc  lse   an  lus_a  a,t."in_-__sj_a_ _                                                             us- ca  itast -
al si-c. 5-... ye   "ft - elda   sit   .asc  c   a   asas                                atclta   iae  Seam Issl te aa-ebet    a                 laalse   .
.51& ae.: te., 1ft ag  till3is.         -                                              ref
iccasct.ttt o ta.4 'Isee  laceui- ce    NaIsa u  tel-s. o    IL.
Waa   l1C _U tts II Lau-AI.eI a - a -s-acau- cacat cea.. a, lcuist I
-s-acaaise.  Icat .--  atg -sal etet -cad!suss   si-a- ccc-dcst   atrt  u   aeHit
as   ple-EAd tetsc-seuai5.   ccsasebeec    -et   siaalasups



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ICONOWIC INI7CATOES
CROSS  ArAIONAL PRODUCT IN 1912                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROVTYNI, Constant Priea)
U36 NIn. /I/    S               1975-80                    1961 /2/             1982 hi'
_______ ---      ___-           -------                    ----                  ----
CGP at Market Prices               70,106        100.0                3.1                    -7.6                  -.2_
aross Domestic Investmont          1,6.15         24.0                1.3                      7.6                -to.8
aroma NatiOnal Saving               9,070          12.9               5.2                   -31.6                 -24.0
Current Account Sninee             -7,3141       -10.5
&aports of Cooda,NFS               13,590         ¶9.6                2.0                   -34.6                 -11.1
Importa of Cooda,NPS               19,989         28.5               15.6                    -7.1                 -31.9
OUTPUT. LABOR roPc! AND
PRODUCTIVITY  IN 1982
Value Added /1/                 Labor Force /3/               V.A. PET Worker
__________ ___________-__-___ ____---------------_________
US5INin.         5                 M.            7                 US 6          w
Agriculture                        15,66          21.1               19.6         59.                 878          60.6
Industry A Mining                  27.709         39.0               6.2          18.9               *.320        199.5
3ervices                           27,817         39.2                7.0         21.3               3.978        163.7
Total/Avernge                  71.020        100.0              32.1         100.0              2,165        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                   Central Government
(N Nln.2       I of CDP                              CU "n.)        S of GDP
________ ___________________----                   ------__- _______________
1982 /11  1982 /1/  1979.-1 /-/                      1982 /1/  1962 /1/ 1979-i /6/
---             ------ __ _ _----_                        ----       -------
Current Recelpts                   12.620      26.4          29.5                         T,320      15.3          21.3
Current Expenditure                 9,612      20.1          20.1                         6,o78      10.2          10.1
Current Surplus                     3,003       6.3           9.4                         2,J42       5.1          10.5
Capital Expenditure                 9.567      20.0          11.0                         6.270      13.1          12.9
Iaternal Assistance(net)                                                                   26         0.6           0.6
NONE?. CREDIT AND PRICES                          1976       1977       1978      1979       19o0       1981       1962
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Ouasl Money                            5.813      7,813     7.521      9,649    16,390    15,239    16,694
Sank Credit to Publtc Soctor(net)                  551      2,309     3.143      3.313      3,539     6,299    10.328
RanK Credit to Private Sector                    2,382      3,659      *.t85     5.126      6,744      8,917    10,567
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
money A OusWi Money as I or GDP                   21.6       24.7       22.2      24.3       30.9       32.3       36.9
General Price Indezll97Su10)                     123.9      143.0      166.T     186.3      206.9      2a7.5     266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               21.7       15.6       16.6      11.3       10.0       20.8       7.7
Sank Credit to Public Sector                                319.1       36.1       5.6        6.8       78.0      64.0
lank Credit to Private Sector                     36.8       65.2       29.7      10.3       31.6       32.2      18.5
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---
Not&::  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing durlng period
covered.
/1 Revised estimates. /2/ Offielal eatiastem. /6/ Provisional.
/3/ The data is derived from planalng documents and refers to the number of  gainfully employed'.
Not Awailable.
April lI, 1986.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PATMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PATMENTS                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-1983) 14/
1961 /1/  1982 12/  1983 /3/                                 US2 Nl".         s
(Millons US SI
Laports of Goods f.o.b.              17.718    12.930    10.730              Crude Ol                13.421       96.7
of which:Petroleum                 17.162    12.751    10.350              Cocoa Products              225        1.6
Imports of Goods r.o.b.              18.390    16.838    12.254              Palm Products                85        0.6
Services A Income                    -4.803    -3.060    -3.208              Tin                          2S        0.2
ett Transfers                          -567       -373       -260            Other Comodltles            127        0.9
Current account Balance              -6.042    -7.341    -4.992                         Total         13.182      100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1983 /5/
Direct Foreign Investment                165        3S5       365            ----------------------------------
Met Officil NLT Borrowing               811       753        980                                               35 Wln.
or which: AmortlzatLen               -583       -477       1200                                              --------
Public Debt. ncl. Undisbursed   18,504
Other Capltal(Short-Tsrm)                409        496      -643            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Bet Errors A Onissions                -1543       -689          0            Total Outstanding A Dlsbursed    11.756
Overall Balance                       -6200      -641D      -4290
Flnanclng                              6200       6418       4290
---------                             -----      -----      -C--U T SERVICE RATIO For 1983 /6/
Reaerve Movesent2(Incr.-)             6.200      2.367        518            ------------___--------------
Arrears                                    0     4.051      3.7T0 O
Beserve Levels                       4'261       1.429      1.092
Reserve as Month or Imports            0.18       0.07       0.07            Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed         17.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                              16.390    16.83B    12.'Z54                                                    --
of whlch: Food                        3.154      2.786      1,875            Total Outstanding & Disbursed         17.9
Consumer Goods             4.612      4.141      3.259
Intermedlate Goods         4.682    4'342        3,137
Capital Goods              5.942      5.569      3.983            IBRD/IDA LENDING (Feb. 29.1984) (MIllions 8)
RATE OF EICHANGE
_   ____________                                                                                                 I8IDdD    IDA /7/
1973: N1.D0 =US.l 57
1979: 1 .00 : 0U31.66                                                       Outstanding A DIsbursed              841.0       '6.7
1980: N100 =U5631.D3                                                         Undlsbursed                       1,091.4        -
1981: N1-00   03US1.63
1982: NI.00 z US1.49                                                        Outstanding mcnl  Undlsbursed   1.939.4          16.7
1983: NI00 = US31.39
III Provlsional- /21 ofricial estimates. /3/ Starf etistes.
/4/ Official estimates ror 1961 and 1982.
/5/ Excluding 85.9 bIllion short-term arrears.
/6/ Ratio-of MLT debt service to *eports of goods and non-ractor services.
/T/ As of February 1984.
Not Available
April 18, 1984



- 32 -
TH sBAm T   N*us I=eam OPTAT INNEX  II
A. 07or                                                                  USW. 0   IS NU/
Credi                                                         Amassvvu   fee  usies  aslatm
er   Tsa   Nroe            r
Teeny eight leew   d cem crdts fully d4sbursed               743.7   35.3 a
1191     1971    Sies    E.C state Ol. PaCl                   19.0               7.5
1591     1976    NigerLa    Pus. Est. Uselheldar OI1          10.0               1.6
1597     1976    Was         Xadsteri  Dweh_le                14.7               10.8
1167     1979    Nieria    Apis. 3e. - SI"                    23.0               2.9
1168     1979    Niewa    Spin. 3e. - Elena                   27.0               5.8
1679     1979    Nigeria   isretry,                           31.0               3.6
1711     1979    NigYria    Watr Supply - Kdmas               92.0              67.0
1719     1979    Nigeria    Apis. a Ntna Io. Eea.              9.0               5.3
1786     1930     NlA        Por  lawos                      100.0              63.4
1767     1950    Nig&eia    Orbs Davepeat - Nauh              17.8               8.1
1838     1980    Nigei    ApIs. Dew. - Oye-USith              28.0              19.7
I156     1980    Nigeri      A4is. Dew. - intl-Aobb           12.5              19.3
1883    190     Nigeria    bes                               76.0              22.1
1981     1931    Nigeria    Agric. Dew. - Nascl              132.0              46.6
1932     1981    NIgerla    Ate. Dew. - Kane                 142.0              36.6
2032     19611    Nliser     Tech. AsatateuCa - Agic4.        47.0              28.1
2031     1982    Nigeria aLter Supply - -Anbra                67.0              50.4
2"P      1982     NrA        Powe - DitrIbutlou              100.0              70.6
-     1982    Nieria   ASpi. Dew. - sowto                  147.0             108.3
2299     1983   N3D3         ZfduatriAL Developmt            120.0             117.5
2345     198     Nigri a      ertilize  Iqurt                250.0             159.4
2376     1984    M=          bal  A Media Scale ILdutry    41.0                 40.8
*2390     194    lts C        Tech. Ast. - Gm Kugi0aring    25.0                  25.0
2436     1984    Nigeris    Sptc. Dew. - Madam               122.0             122.0
a20        1985    NgWr        Tech. Saeieawe                   13.0               13.0
"l303      L985    Nigeria    Hedch - Soatco                    34.0              34.0
Total                                             zIs2s.7     35.3  1,142.2
Of which baa be  repaid                             299.7      4.6
ToL outat-odn                                     2,ZZ6.   3s7
Ant sold                        16.8
Of which bs bee repad           T3w                   0.0
Total  m held by sak & 1nA                        2.226.0    30.7
Total Undlhursed                                                    14142.2
S. STAUEDET Or UIC rIVESTEM
UAs of March 31. 198S5
Flncal                                  Typ  of         _Aount in us6 Willi
*s                                      Nuainess       Los      5 -f    Tot;aL
1964. 1967.   Araw  rattles Ltd.    Tactila Hf,.   1.0           0.6       1.6
1910
1964          SNieria Industril         Dew. Fin. Co.            1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973          Ftia  Cottonseed          Teg. Oil       1.6                 1.6
Crushn  Ltd. Crushig
1973          Nigeria Alurnirw          Alum           1.0       0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.           Processing
1974          Lifiama Sugr              Sugar                    a.i       0.1
Esarte
1980          nt                        Tetiles        6.2       0.7       6.9
1981           h1aa Motel               Tourim        10.1       1.4      11.5
1985          Tgr Bettary               Dry-cal        4.6        -        4.6
Nacterias
Total groos c-    c ts                 24.5       4.5      29.0
Less cancellations. terduna..
tles. repaymens and sales             5.8       1.6       7.4
Teol coemmiet now hold by D1C          18.7       2.9      21.6
DndLsbursad                             7.1   -   0.3       7.4
f Not yet effective.
Ia4  The s      of the proje  lhaed Is Part A i  deibed in   eparte
r    o -a   Mek/ma fianced proje-ct in exStUeS. whic  iS
updaed twin Yarly  n  circulted to the xecutive Director ma
APtr  30 ad October 31.
A Prior to exchange rate edjusmsrs.



- 33           ~~~ANNEX III
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IKO)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  18 months
(b)  The agency which prepared the project:               Imo State MWT
(formerly
MLSUD) and
consultants
Cc)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:              October 1977
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                         October 1977
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              September 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  July 1981, re-
negotiated May
1984
(g) Date of Government's confirmation of
intention to borrow:                                 June 1985
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       November 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) The Federal Government would onlend US$53.0 million to the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan. Of this amount,
US$36.7 million vould be passed on to ISG for infrastr:ucture and
community facilities on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan and the other US$16.3 million would be retained by FMBN for
home construction and improvement loans (para. 63). It would be
a condition of loan effectiveness that a SubsidIary Loan
Agreement be executed between the Federal Government and the FMBN
in a form acceptable to the Bank (para. 65);
(b) The FMBN would onlend US$36.7 million of the proceeds of the loan
to the ISG under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. It would be a
condition of loan effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
be executed between the FMBN and the ISG in a form acceptable to
the Bank (para. 65); and
(c) The FMBN would recover directly from project beneficiaries the
cost of land and the cost of plot development. Such costs are to
be recovered over a period of 15 years (without grace) and with
interest and service charges together amounting to an average
effective rate of 13.6 percent per annum (para. 69).



Kolmolo   .     #Wt
---SOKOMO 
I  G   E  R
's-        K    0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DaGlb 1,ntCLpe-
//                         )            n   >                             K   A   D
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2
B El N  I NN    I   G    E                                         R
BoIo
,/- '',._y' ,< i fS ,  A-                                  p,
a                                                            4~~~~~~1
-v  BodqS.~~  ~OO'  Bid.   WLTERRAL3R
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T BRd TORY
1                            IL0_s;n-.    <  bORIN     *,       Abo1
)   I    -          Ogbo.a,os4'ClAjw       Egbe 
g*  \ r) 8EgO.,dodO     N  D                                     ld h
Ad   L.  L  _   L         '  Ayo
|.A F R I C A                                         )           q    \M 
-"'NIGERIA                                                                _>a
~    M .-                   1   i.                                 Da0wa 
i BEOKUA .M E                                              Id-  R   I
*121~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
_~~ 0,   B_,   N                 F  LBnI



IT                           100
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
C    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pr m3[_  | [  r    B    |    ;;i g               \                         9                            ;   t
[~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _n                                                                                    j cIf /    r- Jp
oc  ~                                                                        0*f~.--/A~
z             //                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  O






