Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3295-UNI
STAFF APPRIASAL REPORT
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
June 28, 1985
Urban Division
Western Africa Project Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984           June 1985
Currency Unit  =  Naira (N)                N
US$1           =  N  0.77                  N  0.87
N 1            =  US$1.30                  US$1.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare              2.47 acres
I acre           =     0.405 hectare
1 kilometer'(km) =     0.62 mile
1 liter          =     0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN     -     Central Bank of Nigeria
FMGN    -     Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FMF     -     Federal Ministry of Finance
FMBN    -     Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
FMWH    -     Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ISESA   -     Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
ISG     -     Imo State Government
LGA     -     Local Government Authority
MLG     -     Imo State Ministry of Local Government
MLSUD   -     Ministry of Lands, Survey & Urban Development
MWT     -     Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport
NEPA    -     National Electric Power Authority
NSUDP   -     Nigerian States Urban Development Program
PDD     -     Project Development Department
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
UDPEC   -     Urban Development Project Executive Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE..........................i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY...............................         iii
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND .............................         1
A.  Urban Trends in Nigeria ...................         1
B. Institutional and Financial
Constraints .............................         3
Federal Level .............................         3
Imo State Level ...........................         3
C.  Past Initiatives ..........................         4
Recent Imo State Government
Initiatives ......      ......................    5
Bank Assistance Strategy ..................         6
Experience of the Bauchi Project ..........         6
II.  PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCIES ....................         7
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria ..........         7
Imo State Ministry of Works and
Transport ...............................        8
Imo State Ministry of
Local Government ........................        8
Imo State Environmental
Sanitation Authority ....................       10
Local Governments .........................        10
This report is based substantially on the findings of an appraisal
mission to Nigeria in September 1980. Mission members included
Judy O'Connor (mission leader), M. Rathnam, Z. Shalizi and F. Kahnert
(World Bank), B. di Zitti and A. Iwu (Consultants). The project was
subsequently updated in April 1984 and the report extensively rewritten
by B. di Zitti and L. Clarke (World Bank) to reflect updated costs,
financing plan, implementation schedule, and institutional changes
without altering the scope of the project. Ms. Victoria Sancea (WAPUR)
and Mrs. A. Artaza (WAPUR) assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........................                  11
A. Origin and Objectives                  .        .            11
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement              .     .         12
C. Project Concept and Summary
Description                   . .                        12
D.  Main Components and Cost Estimates    .            .        14
E. Detailed Description of Project
Components ..............................               14
Infrastructure and Sanitation
Improvements--Owerri and Aba
(Ndiegoro)                   . .                        14
Land Development Component               . .               15
Owerri ..................................               15
Obioma Ngwa/Aba                 . .                     16
Umuahia .................................               17
Home Improvement and Construction
Loans    ..................................             17
Urban Services and Institutional
Development ............................                17
F.  Cost Estimates ............................                 19
G.  Financing Plan and Flow of Funds             .    .         19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................                  22
A.  Implementation Responsibilities             .     .         22
The Federal Mortgage Bank
of Nigeria (FMBN)                .         .            23
Imo State Ministry of Works
and Transport (MWT)                .        .           24
Other Institutions                 .         .             25
B. Project Implementation                  .       .            26
C. Procurement                      .           .               26
D. Disbursements                     .           .              26
E. Maintenance                      .           .              28
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................                 28
G. Supervision                      .           .              29
H.  Accounts, Audits, and Reports              .      .         29
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............................                  30
A. Imo State's Finances                   .        .            30
B. Local Governments                   .. .                     31
C.  Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria             .    .         32
D. Cost Recovery and Pricing                 .      .           32
Interest Rate               ........    33
Pricing ...................................                35
E. Affordability, Replicability and
Urban Poverty Impact               . .                  37



Table of Contents (continued)
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .............................    38
A. Project Benefits .......................       38
B. Rates of Return ...........................    38
C. Other Benefits ............................    41
D. Risks .....................................    42
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ...........................     42
ANNEXES
1      Project Towns
3-1    Infrastructure Standards
3-2    Planning Standards
3-3    Flow of Funds and Cost Recovery Diagram
4-1    Implementation Schedule
4-2    Schedule of Disbursements
5-1    Imo State Finances
5-2    Assumptions Used for Imo State Financial Projections
5-3    FMBN Finances
5-4    Assumptions Used in FMBN Financial Statements
5-5    MLG:  Cost Recovery for Upgrading Areas
CHARTS
Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport: Organization Chart
Flow of Funds and Cost Recovery Diagram
Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 15465:  Location of First and Second Project Towns
in Nigeria
IBRD 15294:  Sites and Services - Owerri
IBRD 15295:  Sites and Services - Obioma Ngwa/Aba
IBRD 15296:  Sites and Services - Umuahia
IBRD 15297:  Owerri Upgrading



I



- i -
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                     Document
A.      Reports and Studies Related to Imo
Al.     Project Feasibility Study, MLSUD, Imo State,
Nigeria - Imo Urban Development.
A2.     Inception Report, August 1979, Weidleplan
Consultants Document No. 124911(F).
A3.     Intern Report, November 1979, Weidleplan
Consultants (3 volumes) Document No. 124911(G13):
(i) Volume 1: Main Report
(ii) Volume 2: -Household Survey
-Small Scale Industry Survey
-Site Study
(iii) Volume 3: Feasibility Study and Design:
Supplemental Data.
A4.     Draft Final Report March 1980, Weidleplan
Consultants (3 Volumes Document No. 124911(E 1)3
(i) Volume 1: Main Report
(ii) Volume 2: Infrastructure Standards and Costs
(iii) Volume 3: Maps and Plans.
B.      Bank and Consultants Reports on Project
B1.     Comments on Project Feasibility Study.
B2.     Draft Final Report April 1980 - Ln-1767-Vol. 7
B. di Zitti, Consultant.
B3.     Report on Institutional Arrangements, October 1980.



- ii -
A. Iwu, Consultant - Imo Urban Development
Correspondence.
B4.     Reports on FMEN (filed in Ln. 1767-UNI).
a.   Interim Report, August 1979, BMB Consultants
Document No. 125428(G1-3).
b.   Final Report, April 1980, BMB Consultants Document
No. 125428(C).
C.      Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Cl.     Master Plans, Owerri, Aba and Umuahia:
a.   Imo State Capital, Owerri May 1977,
Fingerhuth and Partners Document No. 126534
b.   Aba Master Plan, Phase 2, September 1980,
Concept Ecodesign Internat. Document No. 127736
c.   Umuahia Master Plan Phase 3, July 1980,
G and G International. Document No. 127734.
D.      Government Publications, Reports
DI.     Imo State of Nigeria - Approved Estimates 1980, Imo
State. Official Document No. 1 1981 - No. 182.
D2.     Imo State of Nigeria - 1980 Approved Estimates, Official
Documents No. 2 1980 - No. 182.
D3.     Approved Estimates 1979-1980 of Imo State of Nigeria,
Official Document No. 3 1979 - No. 182.
D4.     Approved Estimates 1982, Imo State, Imo State of Nigeria,
Official Document No. 6 1982 - No. 182.
D5.     Approved Estimates 1983 - Imo State of Nigeria, Official
Document No. 7 1983 - No. 182.
D6.     Budget Speech by Bridgadier I.O.S. Nwachukwu, Military
Governor of Imo State of Nigeria, May 16, 1984 - No. 182.



- iii -
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:           Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and Imo State
Amount:                  US$53.0 million
Terms:                   Payable over 20 years including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         US$16.3 million would be relent by the Federal
Government to the Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria which would repay the loan on the same
terms as the IBRD loan. The remaining
US$36.7 million would be channelled through the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and onlent to
the Imo State Government on the same terms as
the IBRD loan. The Federal Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:             The project would seek to extend the experience
of the first urban project in Bauchi State
(Loan 1767-UNI) by providing affordable shelter,
infrastructure and related urban services to low
income households in Imo State. The project
would also enhance the planning and project
implementation capabilities of key institutions
at the federal and state levels so as to
strengthen the basis for a more extensive
program of urban development. In this context
funds would be provided to the Project Develop-
ment Department of the Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria for studies and consulting services, and
technical assistance and equipment would be
provided to state and local authorities partici-
pating in the project. Serviced housing sites
would be developed in the three principal towns
and low income residential areas would be
upgraded. Sites would also be provided for
small scale enterprises to generate employment.
Low income families would be given access to
construction loans and supporting social facili-
ties would be constructed in the project areas.






- iv -
Project Benefits
and Risks:               The project would directly benefit some 87,000
people, of which an estimated 80% have incomes
below the relative urban poverty threshold.
Urban development projects of this nature are
new in Imo and may entail risks associated with
inexperience. However, experience gained during
implementation of the first urban project and
technical assistance provided under the proposed
loan is designed to minimize these risks. The
project implementation unit is fully staffed,
counterpart funding is assured and all major
civil and building contracts have been awarded.
Estimated Cost:
Local        Foreign        Total
----      (US$ million)-------
Urban Infrastructure                 15.0          13.7          28.7
Community Facilities                  2.9           2.3           5.2
Construction Loans                   12.9          10.5          23.4
Technical Assistance and Training   0.2             0.3           0.5
Equipment, Vehicles and Spares        0.4           1.6           2.0
Studies                               1.6           2.0           3.6
Total Base Cost                      33.0          30.4          63.4
Contingencies:  Physical            1.7           1.4           3.1
Price             13.6           4.9          18.5
Total Cost                           48.3          36.7          85.0
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign        Total
----------(US$ million)--------
IBRD                                 16.3          36.7          53.0
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria   21.1              -           21.1
Imo State Government                 10.9            -           10.9
Total Financing Required             48.3          36.7          85.0






Estimated
Disbursements: a/
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
-------…=_US$ million)---------
Annual         11.7   12.1   12.2   10.1    6.9
Cumulative    11.7   23.8   36.0   46.1   53.0
Economic Rate of Return:               The land development and infras-
tructure improvement components
representing about 90% of project
costs would together yield an
estimated economic rate of return
of 27%.
Maps:  IBRD 15465:  Location of First and Second Project Towns in Nigeria
IBRD 15294:  Sites and Services - Owerri
IBRD 15295:  Sites and Services - Obioma Ngwa/Aba
IBRD 15296:  Sites and Services - Umuahia
IBRD 15297:  Owerri Upgrading
WAPUR
June 1985
a/ Based on Bank-wide sectoral profile but adjusted to reflect the
award of all major-civil and building works contracts.



I



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urban Trends in Nigeria
1.01      Nigeria's 1984 urban population of about 29 million, currently
some 30% of the total, is rising rapidly. It is estimated that rates of
urban growth of between 6% and 8% will result in an urban population of
over 75 million, or about half the total Nigerian population, by the
year 2000. This growth, once mainly confined to the largest centers and
the traditionally more urbanized southwest has, in the last ten years,
been far more widespread.
1.02      The main cause of urban migration has been due to relatively
better employment opportunities in urban areas accelerated by the oil
boom of the 1970s.   Despite the sizeable urban labor force expansion,
however, an estimated 50% of urban residents' incomes fall below the
absolute urban poverty level of about US$700 per capita per year. 1/
1.03      The rapid growth of urban populations has severely strained
the capacity of the institutions responsible for urban management and
has overwhelmed the limited infrastructure networks. Many of the poorer
residential districts have no provision for piped water, storm water
drainage, sewage disposal or public transport. The shortage of housing
is acute at all income levels, and overcrowding, which is commonplace,
is rising. It has been estimated that housing construction would need
to average 440,000 a year nationally in the period 1975-1990 in order to
satisfy requirements. Actual housing construction was probably no more
than one quarter of this level during the period 1975-1983 and, due to
current financial constraints, is not likely to increase.
1.04      Imo State, with an area of about 12,700 kM2 and an estimated
population of nearly six million, is one of the most densely populated
and urbanized areas of West Africa. Lying in the densely populated and
industrialized southeastern region of Nigeria, between Port Harcourt,
Enugu and Onitsha, it has an average density of more than 450 persons
per km2 and more than 50 towns of over 50,000 people. Rural densities
of 1,200 to 2,000 persons per km2 have been recorded in the vicinity of
major towns.
1/        Available data on income distribution in Nigeria is unreliable
and should be considered to have a large margin of error.



- 2 -
1.05      The pace of urbanization is likely to rise unabated.  The
towns play an important role in the regional economic system. They are
vital market, production, communication, educational, social and
cultural centers, closely linked economically to their rural hinterland.
The towns provide storage, transshipment and distribution facilities for
the agricultural and artisanal products of the surrounding rural areas,
and also supply farmers with necessary inputs to support their
production. Above all, they are the dynamic centers of the cash
economy, entrepreneurship and modernization.
1.06      The three largest towns are:  Owerri, the state capital; Aba,
the main trading and industrial center; and Umuahia, an important rail
link with the north. Because of dislocation caused by the civil war and
the lack of reliable census data, population estimates are difficult to
verify. Current estimates are: Owerri, 180,000; Aba 450,000; and
Umuahia, 90,000. Growth is estimated at 7% in Umuahia, 9% in Aba, and
10% per annum in Owerri. These towns are clearly major and rapidly
growing economic centers in the state, accounting for over 60% of
industrial establishments and a similar percentage of total employment.
There are more than 1,800 registered industries in the state, of which
nearly half are located in Aba. There is demand for serviced sites for
small-scale industries in all three towns.
1.07      A large part of public and private sector investment in
reconstruction and development, in the nine years since Imo State was
created out of the East-Central State, has been directed to these towns
and resulted in substantial growth in employment. In spite of the
significant investment in urban infrastructure and services, much of it
to repair war damage, supply has not met the backlog and incremental
demand. Projected growth in the state economy and in urban population
will place additional strains on the already overburdened systems
(Annex 1).
1.08      Past investments, also, have not benefited all areas within
towns or income groups equally. For example, the extensive road and
drainage reconstruction of the late 1970s in Owerri left pockets of
dense, lower-income neighborhoods, the traditional "village cores", with
poor access and drainage, little water and severe sanitation problems.
The older main market, a major trading center in the state, was also
neglected and is now beset by congestion, poor access and drainage, and
hazardous sanitary conditions. Similarly, the infrastructure recon-
struction programs in Aba did not benefit the densely-populated area of
Ndiegoro, near the main market, and this has been subject to flooding,
poor access and environmentally hazardous conditions.
1.09      Until now, equally imbalanced have been the investments in
housing in the state. Likewise, investment in housing has focussed on
middle- and high-income groups, while serviced land for low-cost housing
is unavailable close to employment. Rents in the towns are relatively
high and rising. This forces many urban workers to commute from rural
areas, forcing them to spend between 25% and 50% of their minimum wage
on transportation and wasting considerable travel time. In spite of all



the recent construction, it is estimated that the current housing
shortfall in Owerri, Aba and Umuahia is 5,000, 14,000 and 3,000 units
respectively, virtually all low-cost. Incremental demand is estimated
at respectively, 10,250, 24,800 and 4,000 units between 1985 and 1989.
B. Institutional Framework and Constraints
Federal Level
1.10      A number of institutions have been established by the Federal
Government to tackle the complex problems of urban development.
However, the field of responsibility and the jurisdiction of these
public sector institutions are not always clearly defined and sometimes
they overlap.
1.11      Responsibility for urban development, planning and most
infrastructure investment rests with the states. The Federal
Government, however, is involved in the provision of major
infrastructure and utility networks of national importance such as
federal highways, waterways, railways, airports, telecommunications and
electricity. Through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH),
formerly Ministry of Housing and Environment, it is also responsible for
the formulation of a national policy of urban development and housing.
As part of this function FMWH is charged with supervising both the
Federal Housing Authority (FHA) which is primarily concerned with
middle- and high-income housing, and the Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria (FMBN). FMBN is responsible for housing finance, and makes
loans directly to individuals as well as to state-level development
agencies.
1.12      A central aim of the first Bank-supported urban development
project (Loan 1767-UNI) was to strengthen the planning and project
implementation capability of the FMBN by furnishing technical assistance
in project development, mortgage operations, accounting and systems
management. As a result of this assistance, FMBN has gained experience
in project preparation and supervision and now participates actively in
the identification and preparation of new urban projects. In this
capacity, it has provided assistance to the states by onlending funds
for urban development feasibility studies which it is also helping to
formulate and supervise.
Imo State Level
1.13      In Imo State, a number of state agencies and local governments
(LGAs) are involved in planning, capital investment, maintenance,
service delivery and revenue collection in the three major urban areas.
Most planning and technical functions have, since a reorganization in
January 1984, been concentrated into the Ministry of Works and Transport
(MWT), which includes Departments of Housing and Environment, Lands and
Survey, and Works, in addition to the Project Implementation Unit. As



- 4 -
such, MWT is responsible for planning and development control in urban
areas, land registration, transport regulation and licensing, provision
and distribution of water, construction and maintenance of state roads,
housing and environmental control.
1.14      MWT is also responsible for two parastatals, the Imo State
Transport Corporation and the Imo State Housing Corporation, and
oversees the Owerri Capital Development Authority. The Ministry of
Local Government, which oversees local government administration and
finances in the state, is also responsible for the Environmental
Sanitation Authority which provides solid waste management services on
behalf of the local governments, presently only in Owerri, Aba and
Umuahia.
1.15      There are no separate municipal or town governments, and the
urban areas are administered by the LGAs in which they are located. The
LGAs constitutionally are responsible for a broad range of services,
from providing and maintaining local infrastructure and facilities
(roads, drains, parks, markets, etc.) to licensing bicycles and canoes;
from the maintenance of cemeteries to the management of solid waste,
rate assessment and collection. They also share responsibility with the
state government for providing and maintaining health and education
facilities. Their activities are monitored by the Ministry of Local
Government.
1.16      In the past, local governments have experienced financial
constraints aggravated by limited personnel with suitable management,
technical skills and training. They have been unable to perform even
the most perfunctory infrastructure maintenance functions, let alone
embark on significant capital development. As a result, either state
agencies have taken over particular LGA responsibilities (such as solid
waste management, provision of infrastructure) or services remain
neglected. The Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority (ISESA),
set up in 1981, has been successful in dealing with waste collection.
However, its future operational capacity is predicated on availability
of spare parts for its fleet and revenues to enable it to function
without State subventions, which in 1984 were estimated at N 1 million
annually.
C. Past Initiatives
1.17      In 1978, the Federal Military Government handed over the
entire implementation responsibility for housing to the states. At the
same time, the Land Use Decree of 1978 was promulgated, in which land
allocation authority was vested in the State. Local Governments were
delegated by the States control and management of all land not designat-
ed as urban.
1.18      In 1980, because of dissatisfaction with the efforts of
states, a Federal Low-Cost Housing Program was announced by the civilian



- 5 -
government for the construction of 40,000 units per year: 2,000 units
in each of the 19 states, plus the Federal Territory of Abuja. The
scale of this program, lack of involvement by state-level personnel to
complement the efforts of Lagos-based Federal Ministry of Housing and
Environment (FMHE) staff in its implementation, and poor coordination
and cost control, delayed the program, led to cost overruns and
effectively prevented FMHE from performing its main policy and program
functions. Less than one year's planned program had been achieved by
early 1984, when construction was suspended.
1.19      The Federal Government has still to formulate a comprehensive
and coherent policy framework within which to cast its urban development
strategy. In its efforts to clearly define the difficult issues of
incentives and controls, standards for shelter and infrastructure, cost
recovery, subsidization and the identification of priority target
groups, the Government has solicited the assistance and collaboration of
the Bank. As part of its sector work program, the Bank has already
opened a dialogue with Government on the compatibility of the various
federal and state initiatives.
Recent Imo State Government Initiatives
1.20      In January 1984, after the coup, the new Imo State Government
inherited a difficult financial situation: declining revenues, a large
foreign and local debt, a backlog of overdue payments to suppliers,
contractors and civil servants' wages, and a stagnant economy. To
overcome the severe financial constraints, the Imo State Government
embarked on a program of austere budgeting, on the one hand, and on
seeking additional local revenues, on the other. Recurrent expenditures
have been trimmed through the releasing of redundant staff and "ghost
workers", while capital expenditure has been limited to priority
projects. State subsidies and subventions to parastatals were reduced
and revenues mobilized.
1.21      Results have been impressive.  Revenues in the first five
months of 1984 were reported 240% higher than in the corresponding
period in 1983. Efforts are being made to introduce user fees for urban
services such as solid waste collection, and for hitherto free social
services such as education and health care.
1.22      Additional improvements, however, depend on greater adminis-
trative efficiency and financial control at both the State and LGA
levels. Greater emphasis should be placed on operations and maintenance
of existing assets, while investments in neglected high priority
services and infrastructure should be programmed. Constraints to
productive enterprises, particularly those low-capital, small-scale
units with many forward and backward economic linkages, should be
removed wherever possible. To help alleviate some of these problems,
the Imo State Government is participating in a Bank-assisted project of
technical and financial assistance to small- and medium-businesses
(Loan 2376-UNI).



-6-
Bank Assistance Strategy
1.23      Bank urban assistance strategy in Imo State has focussed on
the following key issues: an imbalanced state investment program that
overly emphasized capital-intensive and social programs while neglecting
to develop sound financing practices, and high levels of subventions for
housing (particularly for higher income groups). Improving access to
reliable basic services and utilities is a fundamental need if the
economic growth of Imo State is to be maintained. Given the poor level
of services in many areas, it is also seen as a necessary prerequisite
for public acceptance of measures to increase tax revenues.
Experience of the Bauchi Project
1.24      The Bank's involvement in Nigeria's urban sector began within
the framework of the Nigerian States Urban Development Program (NSUDP),
which has been incorporated in the Federal Government's Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1981-85). Under this program, a pilot first project
was funded and is being executed in Bauchi State, providing sites and
services and area upgrading in Bauchi and Gombe, technical assistance at
state and federal levels, and funds for feasibility studies in seven
other states. 2/
1.25      The Bauchi project (Loan 1767-UNI), approved in 1979 and
scheduled for completion in 1985, is considered to be a success by the
Federal as well as the Bauchi State Governments. It has already
demonstrated the feasibility of providing affordable shelter,
infrastructure and related urban services to low-income households.
Initially plagued by administrative and start-up delays and subsequently
constrained by counterpart funding problems, the project is progressing
satisfactorily. In the upgrading areas, about 6,000 families, one
quarter of Bauchi's population, have benefitted from improved basic
infrastructure such as roads, drains, water supply and electricity. In
the site and services areas some 1,850 of the 2,050 plots have been
allocated and beneficiaries are building low-cost houses with FMBN loan
funds and other savings. Cost recovery from these sites and services
beneficiaries is satisfactory and repayments are not in arrears.
1.26      Lessons learned from the Bauchi project have been applied in
the present project. To avoid start-up delays, all major contracts have
been awarded, more than 60% of counterpart funding has been spent or
deposited in the Project Account by the Imo State Government (ISG), and
the implementation unit (PIU) is fully staffed.
2/        Imo, Lagos, Benue, Ondo, Ogun, Niger and Gongola.



II. PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCIES
2.01      This Chapter reviews the Federal, State and Local Government
agencies which will be involved in the proposed project. The role of
these agencies in project execution is described in Chapter IV.
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
2.02      The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) is a Federal
parastatal under the aegis of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH). It was established in 1977 and is the only national mortgage
institution. FMBN has wide powers: to finance construction or improve-
ment of commercial, industrial or residential property development for
individual, corporate or public clients, including state and Federal
government agencies. Although it currently depends on Government funds,
both for equity and loans, it has authority to borrow on private and
foreign markets.
2.03      FMBN was given a major role supported by technical assistance
under the first Bank-assisted Urban Development Project in Bauchi State.
Its Project Development Department (PDD), established to assist in
preparing, evaluating, monitoring and supervising FMBN's urban
investments throughout Nigeria, has grown from modest beginnings in 1979
into an effective unit of dedicated staff who are accumulating experi-
ence in preparing, evaluating, and administering Bank-assisted projects
in Nigeria, including the Imo State Urban Development Project.
2.04      In 1980, FMBN had only one branch office in Owerri to serve
the whole of Imo State. Since then, it has expanded its staff and
office accommodations in Owerri, where a new office is nearing
completion, and has opened new branches in Aba and Umuahia primarily to
serve the project beneficiaries and also as savings mobilization
centers. The Owerri branch, which will be responsible for processing,
disbursing and collecting the construction and improvement loans in
Owerri, has a staff of 28, including the branch manager and seven other
professional level staff. The Branch manages a portfolio of 1,500
mortgage loans totalling N 23.5 million in value and over 3,500 savings
accounts with total deposits of about N 950,000. Of these, about 250
deposits totalling more than N 180,000 in value represent prospective
project beneficiaries who have already opened accounts to start the
special contract savings plan. The Aba and Umuahia branches have,
together, a staff of about 25, including two assistant branch managers
and two other professionals.
2.05      The project is expected to have a significant impact on the
FMBN Imo mortgage portfolio, adding 6,500 new low-income mortgages to
the 1,500 accounts currently being serviced. The need for strengthening
and expanding FMBN's operations in Imo with additional staff, equipment
and-ac?commodation was anticipated during project preparation and reforms



- 8 -
have largely been carried-but. It was agreed during negotiations that
FMBN would provide a timetable and staff development plan for further
strengthening its operations in Imo State for Bank approval by
September 30, 1985. It was also agreed during negotiations that FMBN
would submit a five-year financing plan for review by the Bank by
September 30, 1985. The Federal Government during negotiations agreed
to grant FMBN a loan to cover the share of federal contributions to
project costs earmarked for home construction loans and feasibility
studies.
Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport
2.06      The Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT) is the
result of the amalgamation, in January 1984, of three previous
ministries: the Ministry of Works and Transport; the Ministry of
Housing and Environment (MHE); and the Ministry of Lands, Survey and
Urban Development (MLSUD). It is the major technical ministry in the
State and is responsible for supervising the Imo Public Transport
Corporation, the Imo State Housing Corporation, and the Owerri Capital
Development Authority (OCDA). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
orginally established in 1981 to implement the proposed urban project
and similar projects in the future, is part of the MWT. It is run as a
self-accounting unit with its own director and special project account.
Departmental responsibilities in the Ministry follow the demarcation of
the previous ministries: the Department of Works is responsible for
state highway construction and maintenance, and transport regulation and
licensing; the Department of Housing and Environment for housing,
related services and environmental controls; and the Department of Lands
and Survey,-for land allocation, plot parcelling and survey, and urban
physical planning. In addition, a Department of Public Utilities is now
responsible for water and electricity.
2.07      MWT is generally well-staffed (with only localized shortages
of qualified personnel) but lacks the experience of coordinating and
supervising large, multi-sectoral urban investments. An organization
chart of MWT is given on the following page.
Imo State Ministry of Local Government
2.08      The functions of the Imo State Ministry of Local Government
(MLG) include monitoring of LGA activities, review and approval of
annual LGA estimates, approval for plans and major purchases at the
local government level, audit, and training coordination. These
functions are carried out by the Local Government Inspectorate with
field staff and inspectors. MLG is also responsible for supervising the
Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority (ISESA), a statewide
corporation entrusted with solid waste management throughout Imo on
behalf of the local governments.



NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
IMO Ministry ot Works and Transport
Organization Chart
_  _ecrary                                                                                           Secreto_Secretuyy
(FaJtnrmeity     Water     state
Board &       Hosin
E!ectrrcrty Board)io
wJ.ratWr                                                                                                                                           k6
i |     Housmrz &                              Secretary      ]             Seretalry                     Secretary                 Szecretary
Environment                Lo~~~nds & SUNYYWok                                         Public Utilifies          Adm,n,strct,on
BoIcrd &
Elerctric,ty Boo,d)
WAPUR. Januaury 1985                                                                                                                      World Bun,k-2644



- 10 -
Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority
2.09      The Imo State Environmental Sanitation Authority (ISESA) was
established by the Imo State Government in 1981 as the agency
responsible for environmental sanitation of Imo's urban areas. A
turnkey contract was signed with a German solid waste management
company, SIJLO, for the design of a solid waste management system for
Owerri, Aba and Umuahia and for the supply of equipment and vehicles,
spares, workshop and office facilities needed. An integral aspect of
the contract was the supply of management services and a training
program designed to develop management and operational skills for
counterpart Imo staff.
2.10      ISESA has been successful in providing a much improved solid
waste collection and disposal service in Owerri, Aba and Umuahia with a
capable and enthusiastic team of local management and operational staff.
It has been able to do that thanks to liberal state government
subventions estimated at about N 1 million in 1984. However, after
three years of operations, stocks of some essential spares are running
low or have been exhausted. Operations cannot be expanded without
jeopardizing service and, in view of current financial constraints, the
Authority cannot continue to meet its recurrent and capital expenditure
requirements without an independent revenue source.
Local Governments
2.11      LGAs are the third tier of Government, reintroduced in Nigeria
in 1976 to bring government closer to the people. Financially they are
weak. Years of almost total support from allocations of Federal and
State revenues have meant that the local resource base has been neglect-
ed. Property taxation, assessment and collection have been neglected in
the past due to lack of incentives and little attention has been paid to
collecting other revenues from existing sources. Furthermore, the major
source of LGA revenue, the cattle tax and the community tax, were
abolished in 1980 for political reasons. Because of their financial,
technical and managerial weaknesses, the LGAs have been relegated to the
background in the provision of urban services with most functions being
carried out by State agencies. The devolution of financial
responsibility for primary education operations in 1980, combined with
discontinuation of earmarked Federal universal primary education grants
to the States, has meant that virtually all of the Federal allocation to
local governments has been absorbed by teachers' salaries.  This was
originally intended to support other local functions and capital
programs.
2.12      Owerri, Aba and Umuahia LGAs exhibit all of the problems
previously noted to varying degrees. In general, they are financially
stronger than other essentially rural LGAs in the State because they
have a stronger economic base. The urban LGAs' local revenues, as
meager as they may be, mean greater budgetary resilience in times of
declining Federal and State allocations than in the case of more rural
local governments. Apart from shortages of qualified staff, their



- 11 -
greatest current weaknesses are financial record keeping, financial
management, and organization and effectiveness of technical staff.
Budgets submitted to MLG for approval bear little relation to reality
because final accounts have not been prepared for years, and MLG budget
approval delays confound any effective control. This hand-to-mouth
financial existence means that technical staff are frequently idle due
to lack of supplies and materials, and staff salaries are three to six
months in arrears.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Origin and Objectives
3.01      The proposed project was first identified in October 1977 by a
Bank mission which visited Nigeria to assess the scope for Bank assis-
tance. Subsequently, the Imo State Government engaged consultants to
prepare a feasibility study which was completed in July 1980. The
project was appraised in September 1980 and negotiated in July 1981.
However, the project was not presented for Board approval at that time
because Imo State had failed to provide counterpart funds for the Imo
Oil Palm Project (Loan 1191-UNI), and because of Bank concerns about the
ability of Imo State to fund this and other pressing development needs.
Recently, the State satisfied all of its obligations under the Oil Palm
Project and has undertaken a wide-ranging program of financial reforms
(paras 5.02 and 5.03).   Outstanding conditions for Board presentation
were met in early 1984, and project and loan documents were updated and
amended to reflect changes in project implementation, costs, financing
plan and institutional framework. However, further delays in loan
processing were due to the new Federal Military Government's assessment
of all proposed loans in its portfolio, including those from the World
Bank.
3.02      The project has two major aims:
At the Federal Level: to continue the long-term objective of
the NSUDP by strengthening Government's capability for policy
formulation and program monitoring and evaluation in the urban
sector and extending project preparation assistance to the
states;
At the Imo State Level:
(a) to extend the demonstration begun in Bauchi of a
replicable approach to providing shelter and related
services that is affordable by the low-income urban
population; and
(b) to build on and strengthen institutional linkages and
capacity in Imo State to carry out future low-income



- 12 -
urban development projects, while improving the local
financial resource base.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.03      The project would redress past investment imbalances by
focussing primarily on the provision of improved infrastructure systems
and services for lower incbme, neglected areas of the project towns and
meet some of the backlog in demand for serviced plots for residential,
mixed and small-scale enterprise use for lower income groups. This
should encourage economic activity, raise productivity and justify the
introduction and improvement of cost recovery mechanisms for urban
infrastructure and services. Improved financial management, revenue
collection and maintenance are critical to the State's and LGA's efforts
to plan, program and maintain urban investments without overrelying on
external financial resources. Neither the State nor the Federal
Government has sufficient resources and technical skills necessary to
plan, coordinate, finance and implement a low-cost scheme of the type
proposed. Because of its oil revenues, Nigeria has, in the past ten
years, been a low priority country for most bilateral assistance
programs. Furthermore, the type of investments proposed, with a
relatively low foreign content for both goods and services, is not
attractive to commercial or export credit sources.
C. Project Concept and Summary Description
3.04      The principal focus of the project would be to alleviate the
serious housing shortage in Imo's major towns through the development of
some 8,500 plots for residential, mixed and small-scale industrial use
in Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia for low-income groups. Plots
would be serviced with the full range of urban infrastructure and
utilities such as roads, drainage, water supply, electricity and refuse
collection, located within well-planned communities. Supporting
community facilities such as schools, health clinics and community
centers would also be constructed. The three areas are expected to
accommodate about 60,000 beneficiaries and meet some 25% of the
projected demand for housing in the three towns in the coming five
years. Families would be able to choose the most appropriate of five
plot sizes according to their family income.
3.05      There is a demand for serviced sites that will accommodate
industry and generate employment. Catering to this need, the project
would provide serviced sites for small-scale businesses in all three
towns within project areas. More than 1,000 sites would be provided in
total, of which two-thirds would be designed for mixed
residential/business use. Businesses locating on these plots would have
access to credit facilities and to technical assistance furnished within
the context of a small-scale enterprise project (Loan 2376-UNI) that is



- 13 -
being developed with Bank assistance in Imo State and implemented in
parallel with the proposed urban project.
3.06      To ameliorate the particularly acute problems caused by
overcrowding and inadequate infrastructure in Owerri, five traditional
village cores would be upgraded to improve the physical layout and by
providing access to roads, drainage, electric power, water and sanita-
tion facilities. The areas affected at present accommodate some 16,000
people in about 1,200 dwellings. In Aba, about 9,000 residents living
in environmentally hazardous and frequently flooded areas in a
high-density, residential neighborhood (Ndiegoro) near the town center
and main market, would be provided with drainage, roads, and water
reticulation. Home improvement and reconstruction loans would be
offered to residents of the affected communities, particularly for
construction of sanitary facilities and connections to water networks
and sewerage facilities.
3.07      To complement the development of physical infrastructure,
loans for the improvement and construction of shelter would be offered
to project beneficiaries by the Imo branch of the FMBN. It is estimated
that about 75% of the households locating in sites and services areas
would take up construction loans ranging from US$3,900 to US$8,600
depending on family income and plot size. Using some self-help labor,
these loans would suffice for the construction of a minimum two-room
shelter on a plot of 200 square meters with individual water connection
and septic tank. Households in the upgraded area of Owerri would have
access to loans ranging from UJS$930 to US$1,600 for purposes of repair
and reconstruction.
3.08      Finally, the project would provide technical assistance to key
federal, state and local institutions with the aim of enhancing their
planning and project implementation capabilities. At the federal level,
funds would be provided for FMBN to extend the program initiated under
the first urban project (Loan 1767-UNI), through which PDD assisted
states in identifying, preparing and financing urban development fea-
sibility studies. In addition, sector studies and surveys would also be
undertaken. Training in key areas of program formulation and
coordination, project analysis and administration would also be provided
for FMWH and FMBN staff.
3.09      Technical assistance to the state and local governments would
be related more specifically to project implementation and maintenance.
Finance would be provided for 30 man-months of consultant services to
assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Imo Ministry of
Works and Transport in start-up activities, accounting, planning and
project supervision. The bulk of these consultant services would be for
engineering supervision. A further 36 man-months of consultant services
would be provided to local governments to assist with environmental
sanitation, cost recovery, equipment and infrastructure maintenance,
property tax administration, and the training of local government
administrative staff. The project would also finance studies and
priority action plans related to flood control in Aba and market



- 14 -
facilities in Owerri. Equipment, vehicles and spares for maintenance
and solid waste collection would also be financed through the project.
D. Main Components and Cost Estimates
3.10                                                Cost
(N million) (US$ million) % of total
Component
Infrastructure Improvements            3.4            4.5            7.1
(Owerri and Aba/Ndiegoro)
Land Development a/                   22.0           29.4           46.4
(Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba Umuahia)
Home Construction and Improve-
ment Loans                           17.6           23.4           37.0
Urban Services and Institutional
Development:
Technical Assistance b/            0.3            0.5            0.8
Equipment, Vehicles, Spares c/   1.5              2.0            3.1
Studies and Consulting Services
(FMBN/PDD)                            2.7            3.6           5.6
Sub-total                           47.5           63.4           100.0
Physical Contingencies             2.3            3.1
Price Contingencies               13.9           18.5
Total                               63.7           85.0
a/ Includes small-scale enterprise plots and community facilities.
b/ Includes training, maintenance, cost recovery, solid waste
management and resource mobilization.
c/ Includes vehicles and start-up costs for PTU, maintenance
and solid waste management vehicles, spares, and training equipment.
E. Detailed Description of Project Components
Infrastructure and Sanitation Improvements--Owerri and Aba (Ndiegoro)
(US$4.5 million)
3.11      Six traditional core areas in Owerri, currently overcrowded
and lacking in infrastructure and public utilities generally available
to surrounding areas, are to be upgraded. The areas cover a total of



- 15 -
about 43 ha, contain 1,182 inhabited dwellings and accommodate approxi-
mately 16,000 people. The upgrading measures are designed to offer
residents a better standard of living by improving access to basic
utilities and services.
3.12      Measures include:  storm water drainage, electricity networks,
street lighting, water supply, refuse collection points and shared
sanitation facilities (septic tanks and soakaways). The proposed
sanitation component entails the construction of 150 common septic tanks
and soakaways, each shared by seven dwellings through individual con-
nections. Residents would be given access to loans for water and sewage
connections, home improvements and reconstruction.
3.13      The main market in Owerri, close to the proposed upgrading
areas, suffers from difficult vehicle access, poor drainage and inade-
quate sanitation facilities. It represents a health hazard and traffic
bottleneck. The project would finance a study and emergency action plan
to improve access, drainage and sanitation.
3.14      The Ndiegoro area of Aba has been subject to severe flooding
causing many homes in the area to be submerged, particularly in the
rainy season, and posing environmental health hazards to the affected
population of some 9,000. The project would finance a study to find a
solution to the flooding problem and improve funds to infrastructure
networks in the area. Measures to be taken will include: (a) flood
control and drainage; and (b) improved roads, drains, water supply and
electricity. Planning and engineering assistance would also be
provided.
Land Development Component (US$29.4 million)
Owerri
3.15      Some 3,650 plots would be developed on an area of 132 ha and
serviced with the full range of urban infrastructure and utilities such
as roads, drainage, water supply, electricity and refuse collection
(Annex 3-1). Three types of serviced plots would be offered:
(a) exclusive residential use; (b) mixed use for residential and
commercial or workshop activities; and, (c) exclusively small business
use, located on main access roads and near utility mains. The number
and size of plots expected to be developed for partial or exclusive use
by businesses are given in Annex 3-2.
3.16      The project site was selected in conformity with the layout
and land use proposals of the Owerri Master Plan. The site, almost
flat, forms part of the proposed urban growth area of the town, and is
composed of three areas of approximately 44 ha each, separated and
bordered by planned and partly built highways (Map IBRD 15294). It
offers good access to an industrial estate, less than 1 km to the north,
which should provide about 21,000 work places when fully implemented,
and to the administrative complex, currently under construction, to the
south. A green belt links the site to a proposed park to the north and



- 16 -
forms an integrated system of open space with direct access to schools,
sport fields, playgrounds and other social facilities. Road access to
the site, to be improved under the project, will be off the Port
Harcourt Road, about 1 km to the south, where an existing water main
would also be branched and an existing power line tapped.
3.17      Community facilities to be constructed under the project in
Owerri include three primary schools, one health center, one health
clinic/dispensary and one community center. Serviced land would be
reserved for one secondary school, markets, churches and public open
space. Each primary school would initially provide the equivalent of
20 classes at a ratio of 40 pupils per classroom, based on current
enrollment rates of about 75%. The proposed health center would include
outpatient treatment and serviced land has been set aside for a second
health clinic/dispensary within the project site. Recurrent costs for
the schools and health facilities would be borne by the Ministries of
Education and Health respectively.
3.18      The project would provide a centrally-situated, multipurpose
community center, which initially would comprise a multipurpose room, an
office block for administration facilities and open space for outdoor
activities. Community centers would be taken over by the local govern-
ment, which would bear the recurrent costs. Eventually, the facilities
of each center would include: a hall for meetings, etc., a library,
adult education facilities, a fire and police station, a post office,
club and playground.
3.19      Land has been designated within the Owerri sites and services
scheme for a local market. The market site would accommodate areas for
covered market stalls, petty traders, a car park and a bus station, but
these would not be built under the project. The market would become the
responsibility of the local government.
Obioma Ngwa/Aba
3.20      In Obioma Ngwa, on the outskirts of Aba, some 3,650 plots
would be developed with the same range of infrastructure and utility
networks as in Owerri for residential, mixed and exclusively small
business use.
3.21      The project site is situated astride an existing main access
road on the western fringes of the built-up area of Aba. To the west,
the site would be separated from an expressway by a 100 m wide green
belt. To the east, existing palm groves would be integrated into the
layout and retained as a green belt and recreation area of about 70 ha.
From this, open space corridors lead into the residential areas and the
community facilities (Map IBRD 15295).
3.22      Community facilities, similar to those in Owerri, would be
provided within the project site in Aba/Obioma Ngwa. In addition, an
exclusively industrial area for somewhat larger, more space-consuming
enterprises which would be administered by the Ministry of Trade and



- 17 -
Industry, would be provided. Road access, power and water supply to the
site would be from the main Owerri Road, about 0.7 km to the north,
while a major overflow storm water drain would be built from a basin
within the site to the Aba River.
Umuahia
3.23      The site in Umuahia is situated northeast of a planned
extension of the existing timber market, a section of which is planned
as a consumer market and would serve the sites and services scheme. The
mixed-use zone, comprising shops and service establishments, would be
located along the road linking the market to the center of the
residential area. The central green area, surrounded by the primary
school, sports field, church and community center, would be linked to
the open spaces in the residential clusters (Map IBRD 15296).
3.24      Some 1,250 serviced plots would be provided on the 50 ha site
for residential and mixed residential/business use. In addition, a
primary school, a health clinic/dispensary and a community center,
similar to the ones to be built in Owerri, are to be provided within the
project site. To enhance water pressure in the distribution network a
new high-level water reservoir is to be constructed on site. A new
1.2 km paved road connection would be built to provide access to the
site and also link two existing major roads.
Home Improvement and Construction Loans (US$23.4 million)
3.25      Loans ranging from N 2,930 to N 6,470 (US$3,900 to US$8,600)
would be available to about 6,400 households in the sites and services
areas. A take-up rate of 75% has been assumed. A loan of N 2,930
(US$3,900) would enable a household to construct a two-room dwelling,
with individual water connection on a 200 m plot, using some self-help
labor. On-site development costs would range from N 930 for the
smallest plots to N 2,900 for the largest (US$1,240 to US$3,870).
Beneficiaries would be free to construct to their own design. A variety
of standard plans would, however, be made available through FMBN and
MWT's PIU. In the upgrading areas N 694,000 (US$925,000) has been
earmarked for home improvement and reconstruction loans. This would
comprise some 200 loans of N 500 (US$670) each for dwellings in need of
repair and some 370 loans of N 1,000 (US$1,350) each for dwellings in
need of some reconstruction or additions of sanitary facilities.
Urban Services and Institutional Development (US$6.1 million)
3.26      Urban Development.  Technical assistance and equipment would
be provided to MWT consisting of the following:
(a) recruitment of:
(i) up to six consultant months for an advisor to the project
director to plan and initiate project implementation;



- 18 -
(ii) twenty-four consultant months for civil engineers to
coordinate project preparation, bidding documents,
contract awards, and supervision of construction
works; and
(b) start-up costs, including vehicles and equipment.
3.27      Urban Services and Management.  Some 30 consultant months of
technical assistance, some of which may be found locally, are to be
provided to help strengthen management capabilities of local governments
in Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia, as follows:
(a) six months of an environmental sanitation expert to
formulate cost recovery mechanisms for refuse collection
and disposal systems, and improved road and drain mainte-
nance;
(b) twelve months of an equipment maintenance expert to
evaluate the present system of vehicle and equipment
maintenance and develop action plans to improve mainte-
nance management capabilities; and
(c) twelve months of a rate and valuation expert to review
the present system of property valuation and rate col-
lection including mechanisms for cost recovery in the
upgrading areas, and formulate appropriate action plans.
MWT, in consultation with the Ministry of Local Government, would
prepare a timetable by December 1985 to implement the recommendations
arising from these studies.
3.28      Maintenance and Solid Waste Equipment.  To upgrade the ca-
pability of local governments in the project areas to maintain roads,
drains, water, sewerage and refuse collection facilities, they would be
provided with maintenance and refuse equipment and spares worth
N 1.2 million (US$1.5 million) under the project. Specifically, three
graders, three desludgers and related spares would be provided, one of
each to each of the LGAs. Solid waste collection vehicles and particu-
larly spares for the existing fleet would be provided for the Imo State
Environmental Sanitation Authority (ISESA).
3.29      Training.  Six months of a training expert to run on-the-job
courses for local government staff in administrative systems, account-
ing, and maintenance would be funded under the project. In addition, the
capacity of existing technical colleges in Owerri and Obioma Ngwa/Aba
would be strengthened through provision of equipment and physical
facilities valued at about N 180,000 (US$240,200). Courses would be
provided initially in plumbing, masonry and carpentry, the most serious
problem areas. The Ministry of Education will develop appropriate
curricula and training formats for technical training by
December 31, 1985.



- 19 -
3.30      FMBN/PDD:  Studies and Consulting Services.  Funds were
provided under the First Urban Development Project (Bauchi) for
financing urban development feasibility studies in seven states (Imo,
Ogun, Lagos, Benue, Ondo, Gongola and Niger), and for the establishment
of FMBN's Project Development Department to assist in the
identification, preparation and supervision of NSUDP. In order to
strengthen and expand FMBN's successful role in program monitoring,
evaluation and development to meet the needs of all the states in
Nigeria, funding is provided in the project for urban policy and project
preparation studies and short-term consulting services to review and
analyze urban and housing finance sector issues. Following recent
practice, terms of reference for urban feasibility studies would be
drafted by FMBN's Project Development Department in consultation with
the states and reviewed by the Bank. The work program would be reviewed
and agreed on a rolling, yearly basis by FMWH, FMBN and IBRD.
F. Cost Estimates
3.31      The estimated total cost of the project is N 63.8 million
(US$85.0 million) of which US$36.7 million or 43% is foreign exchange,
including physical and price contingencies. Excluding taxes and duties
estimated at N 3.0 million (US$4.1 million), total project costs are
N 60.7 million (US$80.8 million).  Base prices include design and
supervision costs of N 1.1 million (US$1.5 million). Final design and
detailed engineering started in September 1980 and were completed by end
July 1982. Cost estimates are based on tender bids for civil and
building works.
3.32      Physical contingencies for the project are based on an allow-
ance of 10% of civil works and building construction components. Price
contingencies are based on the projected average inflation rates for
Nigeria throughout the project period 1984-1988. The following in-
flation rates have been applied to April 1, 1984 prices:
1984      1985       1986      1987       1988
Local     22%        14%        14%       14%        14%
Foreign   3.5%       8.0%      9.0%       9.0%       9.0%
3.33      A summary of project cost estimates for the basic project
components is outlined on the following page.
G. Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
3.34      The financing plan for the project is based on agreements
between Federal Government (FG), ISG, FMBN, and IBRD, whereby project
costs and annual allocations would be shared in the following manner:



20 
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (INO)
SUNlLRY PROJCT COST ESTIMATES
(Base Cost at April, 1984)-
PERCEIITA&E
M41RA '000                                          USI 000                                --------
- - - -- --- - ------ -------        fORICI   OF
LOC4L    TAKES   FOREKiU         TOT.L            LOML    TAKES   FOREIGN          TOTAL            EI4SUE  "a
A. INFRAST.SI TAIONT1011 llPt117.
1. Of!RR
villa"e Cren lWrading                       541.6      51.5      51l.9      1,111.9            722.1      68.7      61.8      1,482.6                 47
Central Market Upgrading                     96.4       0.0       93.6        180.0            115.2       0.0      124.1       240.0                 52
2.4AD
Ndiegoro  rea Study                          22.5       0.0       52.5        75.0              30.0       0.0      70.0        100.0                 70
Ndieora Infrast. Ioprnants.                 877.0       0.0      950.0      1,827.0          1,169.3       0.0   1,266.7      2,436.0                 52
Dnign and Eginerin                           54.0       0.0      126.0        180.0             72.0       0.0      168.0       240.0                 70
Subtotal                                 1,581.4     51.5   1,741.0       3,373.9          2,108.6      68.7   2,321.3      4,490.5                 52   7
K. L4UD KV!ELDPVJIIT
1. LOIERRI
Off-ite Infrastructure                      454.3      45.5      409.3        909.5            606.3      60.6      545.7     1,212.7                 45
Gn-site Infrastructure                    2,865.5    280.9   2,921.2        6,075.6          3,820.7    385.0   3,015.0       8,100.8                 40
Social and Comnity Facilities               914.9      81.5      733.4      1,620.8          1,016.5    10.7      977.9      2,173.1                45
2. OA/BI109 NGM
0ff-site Infrastructure                     276.4      28.2    239.5          564.2            368.6      37.6      346.0       752.2                 46
ne-site Infrastructure                     3,699.2    333.3   3,372.7       7,405.1          4,932.2    444.4   4,496.9       9,873.5                 46
Social and Caeunity Facilitie               815.6      81.6      734.0      1,631.2          1,007.4    10.7      978.7      2,174.9                 45
3. Ul1IA1I
8ff-sit. Infrastructure                     247.9      31.4      419.1        699.4            330.6      41.9      538.7       931.2                 60
On-sit. Infrastructure                     1,236.5    112.1   1,142.7       2,491.3          1,640.7    149.4   1,523.6       3,321.7                 46
Social and Comeeity Facilitin               311.5      31.2      280.4        623.0            415.4      41.5     373.8        830.7                 45
Subtotal                                10,722.3  1,033.4  10,272.3    22,028.0           14,296.4   1,37.9   13,696.4    29,370.7                  47  46
C. HOU  IIPR914T. AN COST. LOAIS
1. aRwl                                       3,85.3    388.5   3,496.7        7,770.5           5,190.3    518.0   4,662.3    10,360.7                  45
2. ADA                                        3,536.5    353.7   3,182,9       7,073.1           4,715.4    471.5   4,243.8       9,430.8                45
3. W9WJAIA                                     1,373.7    137.4   1,236.3      2,747.3           1,131.5    193.2   1,649.4       3,663.1                 45
Subtotal                                8,795.4    a79.5   7,915.9    17,590.9            11,727.3  1,172.7  10,554.5    23,454.5                   45  37
D. URMI SERY.  ID INSTIT. EVELOPIMET
1. URUI  OEVELOflIIT IPIUI
Start-n  Costs                               115.2      0.0      268.1        384.0            153.6       0.0      358.4       512.0                 70
Technical Assistance                         16.8       0.0       39.2        56.0              22.4       0.0       52.3        74.7                 70
Vehicis aNd Equiunt                           0.0       8.8       79.2         18.0              0.0      11.7      105.6       117.3                 90
2. 1URII SERVICES MD8 IIhIENT
Rate Yaluatin and CallKtisn                  29.8       0.0       67.2         96.0             38.4       0.0       99.6       123.0                 70
Refuse CollKtion StudY                       14.4       0.0       33.6         49.0             10.2       0.0       44.9        64.0                 70
Raintannce Reneqoet                          29.9       0.0       67.2         96.0             38.4       0.0       89.6       128.0                 70
3. MIKTEtMSI AND SDL1I MSTE E[UlP.                0.0      S8.7      790.3       887.0               0.0    118.3   1,064.4       1,182.7                 90
4. TRAINING
Training Techacol Assist nce                 24.0       0.0       24.0        48.0              32.0       0.0       32.0        64.0                 50
Yocational Training Eqaipent                 6S.1       7.6       75.6        151.3             90.9      10.1      100.8       201.7                 50
S. FIII/PU
Studie and Consulting Servicn              1,209.5      0.0    1,474.7      2,601.2          1,609.7       0.0   1,966.2       3,574.9                55
Subtotal                                 1,502.6    105.1   2,927.9       4,535.5          2,003.5    140.1   3,N03.7        6,047.3                65  10
TOTAL BASE CCST                                 22,601.8  2,069.5  22,856.9    47,528.3           30,135.7  2,739.4  30,475.9    63,371.0                   48  100
PHYSICSL CEIYKIU ES                           1,127.0    104.5   1,071.7       2,315.2          1,502.6    144.7   1,439.6        3,006.9                47
PRMCE CCIiT3UEIEIS                           9,415.6    369.2   3,599.9    13,884.7            12,554.2  1,159.0    4,799.8    18,513.0                  26
TOTAL PROIECT CUT                              33,144.4  3,047.3  27,536.5    63,728.2            44,192.5  4,063.0  36,715.4    S4,970.9                   43
WAPUR
February 1985



- 21 -
Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
Up to    CY      CY    CY      CY     CY
1985    1985   1986  1987   1988   1989           Total       Total
-------------(N million)-----------------    (N million)(US$million) %
FG/FMBN a/ -       1.2    3.8    5.8    4.2    0.8           15.8 b/    21.1    24.8
ISG        4.8 c/ 1.5    0.9    0.6    0.4    -               8.2        10.9    12.8
IBRD        -      5.3 d/ 7.9    9.3    8.6    8.7           39.8        53.0    62.4
Total      4.8    8.0   12.6   15.7   13.2    9.5            63.8 e/    85.0   100.0
a/  Statements of source and applications of funds for FMBN are
presented in Annex 5-3.
b/  Includes N 1.4 million for PDD studies and consultant services
c/  Includes funds spent by ISG and those already deposited
in project account.
d/  Of this amount about N 4.0 million (US$5.3 million) represent
retroactive financing.
e/  Total project costs including N 3.1 million (US$4.1 million) in
taxes and duties. IBRD share is 65.6% net of taxes.
3.35      The IBRD share would cover disbursements of 100% of estimated
foreign costs (US$36.7 million) and US$16.3 million of local costs.
Retroactive financing, to cover costs eligible for IBRD funding incurred
from September 1, 1980, is estimated to approximate US$5.3 million.
Retroactive financing would cover disbursements for detailed design,
engineering and preparation of tender documents, technical assistance
for start-up activities at the state level since first project
appraisal, and some civil and building works construction begun in
June 1984 to avoid further delays due to rains (also para 4.15).
3.36      Imo State counterpart funding requirements under the proposed
financing plan would total some N 8.2 million (US$10.9 million). Of
this, Imo has already spent in excess of N 2.0 million on such items as
land acquisition and crop compensation, of which about N 1.2 million
would be eligible for retroactive financing. As of the end of 1984, the
project account has close to N 2.8 million (in both term deposits and
current accounts). Therefore, it is estimated that the State, to meet
its counterpart funding obligations, will need an additional
N 3.4 million (approximately), spread as follows: N 1.5 million in
1985; N 0.9 million in 1986; N 0.6 million in 1987; and N 0.4 million in
1988. In addition, the State will have to continue to provide for
operating expenses of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) over the
life of the project. Assurances were obtained from ISG that budgetary
provisions would be made to cover these financial commitments.



- 22 -
3.37      At the time the project was prepared in 1979-1981, the
prospects for securing cofinancing were limited and were therefore not
considered determining factors in project design. Nigeria, relatively
flush with oil revenues, was at that time a low priority country for
most bilateral assistance programs, and the relatively low foreign
exchange content for goods and services, in this kind of project, were
not attractive to commercial or export credit sources.
3.38      A diagram showing the proposed project flow of funds is
presented in Annex 3-3. The equivalent of US$53.0 million is to be lent
by the IRBD to the Federal Government. Out of the proceeds of this
loan, the Federal Government would onlend the equivalent of
US$16.3 million to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). The
onlending rate is the same as that charged by IBRD to the Federal
Government. This will allow FMBN, whose effective onlending rate is
13.6%, a significant spread over the cost of its borrowings to enable it
to develop a better financial base and to devote more attention to
housing projects for-lower income groups. This US$16.3 million would be
used by FMBN in part (US$13.1 million) to finance home construction and
improvement loans associated with the project, and the remainder for
states urban feasibility studies and sector consulting services.
3.39      The remaining equivalent of US$36.7 million, out of the pro-
ceeds of the IBRD loan, would be channelled through FMBN and onlent to
the Imo State Government (ISG) on the same terms as those of the IBRD
loan to the Federal Government. Of these funds, approximately
US$22.5 million would be earmarked for on-site infrastructure, detailed
design and supervision. The remaining US$14.2 million would be used by
ISG for off-site infrastructure, upgrading and community facilities.
3.40      Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be executed between FMG and
FMBN, and FMBN and Imo State in a form acceptable to the Bank as a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of Loan Agreement).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Responsibilities
4.01      The principal agencies responsible for project implementation
are the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and the Imo State Ministry of
Works and Transport. With appropriate project support in the form of
consultant services and training, these agencies are considered capable
of carrying out their implementation responsibilities. Much of this



- 23 -
suppcrt i s available within Nigeria.  Proj ect coordinaticn. and execution
will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Works and Transport
through its Project Implementation Unit (PIU), establilshed in 1981 and
now fully and competently staffed.
4.02      A summary of project execution responsibilities is showTn
below-
Project Executing Responsibilities
Project Component              Executing AgencV
(a)  Federal level studies and          FMBN
consulting services
(b)  Home construction and              FMBN
irmprovement loans
(c)  Infrastructure works in           MWT Project Tmnlementation
sites and services and            Unit
upgrading
(d)  Allocation and tenure              MWT and Local Commiittees
Upon completion of the project the respective local governments will be
responsible for maintenance of local roads, drains, and community
facilities.
The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN)
4.03      The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria has been rasponsible,
during the implementation of the first urban project (Loan 1767-UNI)9
for the onlending of loan funds and assisting states in preparirng urban
project feasibility studies.  Eight states  3/, including Bauchi and
Imo, were to be covered.  FMBN in general, and PDD in particular, has
gained valuable experience during the successful implementation of the
first project in all aspects of low-income lending operationso fronm af-
fordability analysis to loan administration. FMBN has also developedc
some capacity to assist states in preparing and supervising urban
feasibility studies. Under the Bauchi Project FMBN agreed to discuss
with the Bank by September 1985 the recommendations of a study,
concerning FMBN's operational policies and procedures.
4.04      In the context of the proposed Second Urban Proiects FIMBN's
Project Development Department would extend its assistance to states, as
well as being responsible for administering loan funds for feasibility
studies and sector-specific consultant services. The program of
3/        Bauchi, Imo, Ogun, Lagos, Benue, Ondo, Gongola and Niger.



- 24 -
assistance would be reviewed and agreed by the FMWH, FMBN and the Bank
on a rolling, yearly basis (para 3.30). Under its Low-Income Mortgage
operations, FMBN would provide shelter construction/home improvement
loans to the project beneficiaries and be responsible for recovery of
loan funds for infrastructure investment.
4.05      Each plot allottee in the sites and service areas and each
qualified plot owner in the upgrading areas would be able to obtain a
loan from FMBN under its low-income mortgage program. The State Govern-
ment would be expected to grant a Certificate of Occupancy to each plot
owner; as permitted under the Land Use Decree of 1978; this certificate
would provide security for the mortgage loan from FMBN. FMBN's Imo
branch would provide advice on the cost implications and affordability
of the various building types/house types, and conduct periodic in-
spections of construction, to offer technical advice and assess the
quantum of work as a function of loans disbursed.
4.06      FMBN would also offer building loans at prevailing commercial
interest rates to allottees of the small-scale business plots. The Imo
State Project is the first such scheme in which FMBN would introduce
this feature to its operations.
Imo State Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT)
4.07      The State MWT would have primary responsibility for the
execution of sites and services and upgrading schemes in Owerri, Obioma
Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia. It would also coordinate crop compensation and
granting of land titles, responsibilities of departments within the same
ministry.
4.08      When the project was identified, it was recognized by the
Ministry of Land, Surveys and Urban Development (MLSUD) then the
ministry responsible for planning, housing and urban development, that
sites and services and upgrading programs could not be efficiently
implemented under the existing organizational arrangements. These types
of projects require a unified team of planners, architects, engineers
and financial analysts, whereas the ministry was organized along
functional lines. As a result, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established and later incorporated into MWT to be responsible for
project implementation. It was expected that this unit would become the
permanent implementation arm of the ministry for such projects in the
future with status equal to that of a division. The ministry has
decided, however, that an official reorganization should not take place
until the first schemes are well under implementation and the concept of
a unified, multidisciplinary team has been demonstrated to be effective.
Key staff of the PIU have already been appointed, including the Project
Director. The Director is a senior and experienced local planner who
previously was Chief Town Planning Officer. He is responsible for-
handling day-to-day matters in project execution, reporting directly to
the permanent secretary and commissioner. An executive committee has
been appointed to give guidance and support to the project director on
behalf of the state government and supervise plot allocations



- 25 -
(para 4.10). Local committees have been appointed, one in each town, to
participate in an advisory capacity as representatives of the
beneficiaries (para 4.11).
4.09      Given the scale of the project, a premium was placed on the
ability of PIU to manage and coordinate all aspects of project implemen-
tation. It has the following key professional staff, in addition to the
project director: one town planner; one architect and one estate
surveyor, two civil engineers, one community development officer and one
senior accountant to supervise project finances. To facilitate coor-
dination with state and federal agencies involved in implementation,
each ministry has been requested to designate an officer as principal
contact for the project. The Unit would also maintain close contact
with the Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia local governments and their
respective local committees, which would (a) pre-screen project benefi-
ciaries in the upgrading sites and services areas; and (b) assume
responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of project infrastructure and
social facilities.
Other Institutions
4.10      Urban Development Project Executive Committee (UDPEC).  The
Executive Committee of the project would be responsible for continuous
monitoring, evaluation and coordination of project implementation. It
would normally be chaired by the project director, except for purposes
of plot allocation, when it would be chaired by the Commissioner of MWT
and would include the Commissioner, Ministry of Local Government, in
addition to its normal membership. The executive committee would
include representatives of Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Industry,
Education, Health, Works and Transport, FMWH, FMBN and the affected
local governments. Selection of beneficiaries would be approved by the
UDPEC, then forwarded to FMBN-Imo Branch, together with plot numbers and
building plans for mortgages.
4.11      Local Committees (Owerri, Obioma NgwafAba, Umuahia).  A local
committee has been established in each project town. The local commit-
tees review and give guidance on project implementation but have no
executive role. These committees are composed of the Sole Administrator
and secretary of the local government, the area town planning officer, a
representative of the beneficiaries and MWT; FMBN would participate as
observer with no voting power. The local government nominee would chair
the committee. The local Committees provide the pre-screening of
project beneficiaries on the basis of the prescribed selection criteria
which were agreed at negotiations:
(a) annual household income of between N 1,800 and N 4,100 in 1984
prices, which represents roughly the 20th to 70th percentiles
of household income in project towns;



- 26 -
(b)  minimum residence in the project town of two years; and
(c)  no existing housing ownership in the project town, and, in the
case of Owerri and Aba, preference to residents dislocated by
upgrad4ng.
Where there are more eligibie candidates than available plots, selection
from the list of pre-screened candidates would be carried out by public
Lottery,
B. Project Implementation
4.12      Project implementation will take four and one-_alf years
(1985-1989). The implementation schedule is attached as Annex 4-1.
Implementation of the project has already started with the completion of
all final design, engineering and contract documents, and tendering.
Major civil works contracts were awarded between June and October 1984,
after review and approval from the Bank (para 4.15).
C. Procurement
41.13     The table on page 27 outlines the procurement arrangements to
be followed under the project.
D. Disbursements
4.14      Disbursement of the proceeds of the World Banak loan would be
made on the following basis:
(a)  80% of total costs for on-site civil works;
(b)  80% of total costs for off-site civil works;
(c)  50% of total costs for community facilities;
(d)  40% of expenditure by FMBN for home construction and improve-
ment loans;
(e)  iOO% of fcreign expenditure or 70% of local costs for PIU
start-up costs, maintenance equipment, vehicles (graders,
tippers and desludgers) and spares for Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba
and UJmuahia local governments; and
(f)  100% of foreign expenditure and 70% of local costs for inter-
nationally recruited consultant services and studies.



- 27 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Method         Value of
Items to Be Procured          ICB       LCB      Other     N/A   Contracts
Civil Works b/               33.9       4.0        -         -       37.9
(27.2)     (3.2)                        (30.4)
Community Facilities b/       -         6.9        -         -        6.9
(3.5)                         (3.5)
Home Construction and
Improvement Loans           -          -          -        32.7 c/  32.7
(13.1)   (13.1)
Start-up Costs (PIU)          -         -          0.6       -        0.6
(0.6)              (0.6)
T.A. and Studies (Imo)        -         -          0.6       -         0.6
(0.6)              (0.6)
Vehicles and Equipment        1.3       0.4        -         -         1.7
(1.3)     (0.3)                         (1.6)
States Studies, FMBN          -         -          4.6       -        4.6
(3.2)              (3.2)
Total Financing Required   35.2         11.3       5.8      32.7     85.0
281.5)     L7A0I      JAA)   12,1)1  53-.2)
a/  Contingencies are included in the amounts shown.  Amounts enclosed
in parentheses indicate amount of IBRD participation.
b/  Design and supervision costs of civil and building works included.
c/  Beneficiaries for home construction and improvement loans would be
selected on the basis of agreed criteria and therefore not subject
to procurement procedures.
4.15      Except for category (e) above, disbursements would be made
against contracts. Disbursement for expenditures by FMBN for home
construction and improvement loans would be made against statements of
expenditure, as would reimbursements against civil works contracts of
less than US$50,000 equivalent and other contracts of less than
US$10,000 equivalent. Supporting documents would not be submitted to
the Bank for review but retained by FMBN or PIU and reviewed during Bank
supervision missions. The minimum reimbursement application size for
this project would be US$20,000 equivalent. A schedule of estimated



- 28 -
disbursements of the World Bank loan is indicated in Annex 4-2. Any
undisbursed balance at the end of project implementation would be
cancelled. The estimated disbursement schedule differs from the
standard profile of disbursements for urban projects and the regional
profile. For this project, as for the earlier Bauchi project, the bulk
of expenditures and also disbursements for civil works are estimated to
occur in the second and third years, compared with the third, fourth,
and fifth years in the standard profiles. The appraisal team is
optimistic that the proposed schedule would be met, as some contractors
had mobilized by end 1984. The usual start-up delays of up to two years
can thus be avoided. Retroactive financing up to US$5.3 million would
cover expenditures for detailed design, preparation of tender documents
and technical assistance at the state level (para 3.35), and some civil
and building works construction approved by the Bank to avoid further
delays and associated cost increases due to the onset of the rainy
season. Contracts totaling US$12.8 million equivalent were begun by the
end of 1984.
E. Maintenance
4.16      The local governments of the three project towns, with techni-
cal assistance under the project, would be responsible for maintenance
of roads and drainage. Refuse collection would be the responsibility of
the Environmental Sanitation Authority, acting on behalf of the local
governments. Water and electrical networks would be taken over by the
Public Utilities Department of MWT and National Electricity Power
Authority (NEPA), respectively. In the past, maintenance of municipal
services and infrastructure has received little attention.
4.17      The project would provide technical assistance to the local
governments for the improvement of their administrative and accounting
systems, the programming and budgeting of assets and equipment
maintenance, and related training. In addition, maintenance equipment
(graders and desludgers) and spares would be purchased, and a study to
develop additional revenue sources funded.  Solid waste collection
equipment and spares would also be provided through the project to the
Environmental Sanitation Authority. Upon completion of the studies
agreements will be reached on maintenance procedures and financial
allocations. These measures should, together, assure both the improved
maintenance and proper functioning of the project areas, as well as
other neighborhoods. They would also improve the financial resource
base of local governments to enable them to better program and implement
routine and periodic maintenance programs in the future.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18      Monitoring and evaluation of the project would occur at
federal and state levels. The Project Development Department (PDD) of



- 29 -
FMBN would monitor and evaluate project performance in terms of its
applicability to other states and its impact on the development of
coordinated national policies and programs for housing and urban devel-
opment. PDD would also evaluate the project, particularly in terms of
the rate of mortgage take-up, house construction, affordability and
repayment experience. These findings would then be used in the design
of projects in other states and in projecting organizational and loan
capital requirements for an expanded, ongoing national lending program.
Further details of monitoring and evaluation are available in project
files.
4.19      The above activities would, however, be independent of the
monitoring activities of the PIU within MWT. This unit would prepare
quarterly progress reports on the physical aspects of project implemen-
tation, including the rate of construction of civil works, housing,
social services, and the selection process. Financial reporting on the
project would be carried out by the senior accountant in the PIU.
G. Supervision
4.20      Bank supervision would require about 50 staff weeks over four
years of project execution, beginning in FY86. This level of super-
vision is necessary in view of the location of the three towns, the
nature of the project, and the need to monitor progress of all project
components. It is anticipated that some 15 staff weeks would be re-
quired for each of the first two years, followed by 10 each in the third
and fourth years.
H. Accounts, Audits, and Reports
4.21      FMBN and PIU would keep separate accounts for project compo-
nents under their respective responsibilities. Government would cause
the accounts of FMBN and PIU to be audited by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, and audited accounts, together with the
auditors' report, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the close of each financial year. In addition, Government would make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the independent audit of
statements of expenditure covering disbursements under the IBRD Loan.
The auditors' opinion would cover that: (i) goods and services have
been procured from Bank member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan; (ii)
goods have been received or work performed; (iii) payments have been
made; and (iv) the goods and services are eligible for financing under
the Loan Agreement and have been used for the purpose of the project.



- 30 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Imo State's Finances
5.01       A review of the State's accounts in 1981 and in early 1983,
revealed a large gap between projected expenditure levels and expected
revenue, with only some 20% of revenues generated internally. The
financial shortfall was financed largely through internal and external
borrowing. At the beginning of 1983, the foreign debt, of which about
70% was guaranteed by the Federal Government, stood at about
N 550 million. Much of this debt was incurred to finance industrial and
utility investments. For 1984, debt service, estimated at N 67 million,
is projected to represent 30% of state revenues.
5.02      The military administration which came to power at the begin-
ning of 1984, has adopted a much more conservative and prudent approach
to the management of the state's financial resources. Its 1984 total
budgeted expenditure was N 382 million, of which N 274 million (72%) was
recurrent. This represented a significant reduction of 54% in planned
spending from the levels budgeted in 1983 by the ousted civilian
administration. The reductions were achieved mainly through the laying
off of redundant staff and exposing of "ghost workers", while sharply
curtailing new capital investments. Debt service, education, public
utilities and health accounted for the bulk of recurrent spending.
Subventions to parastatals and mandatory state transfers to local
authorities also represented significant amounts. Capital expenditure
was mainly for public utilities and infrastructure, education, and
industry.
5.03      In FY84, Imo State's recurrent budget was to be financed
mainly from three sources, (a) Federal transfers (54%); (b) borrowing
(18%); and (c) internal revenues (28%) (Annex 5-2). The dependence on
external sources of funding for budgetary activities conforms to a
historical pattern for the State and underscores the need for generating
more revenues locally. The present administration has already outlined
a clear program for enhancing local resources through increased
collection efforts, introduction of user charges for services (including
education and health), and the introduction of new revenues. Although
it is still early to judge, data already suggest some measure of success
(e.g., a 240% increase in State revenues in the first five months of
1984 compared with the corresponding period in 1983).
5.04      Despite these measures, state government surplus of recurrent
revenue over recurrent expenditure in 1984 was projected to be some
N 34.7 million, while total planned capital expenditure was projected at
N 108 million. The balance was to have been financed through domestic
borrowing (N 50.6 million) and external loans (N 22.7 million). The
state's financial position should improve significantly in the near



- 31 -
future, as its surplus for capital investment is projected to rise to
about N 125 million by 1990 (Annex 5-1).
5.05      The state's required counterpart capital contribution for the
proposed urban project, the balance of which is only about
N 3.4 million, will be easily financed from its domestic surplus
resources. Required amounts are to be spread over four years and will
never exceed 2% of total capital available for investment. Incremental
recurrent expenditure for maintenance of additional infrastructure is
expected to be about N 0.7 million yearly. This expenditure is to be
shared with local governments which will finance a large portion of
their share from incremental property tax receipts (para 5.09 below).
5.06      In view of the improved prospects for state government financ-
es, the proposed project is unlikely to be a strain on Imo's financial
resources, even when amortization of the loan begins after 1990. More
than 67% of the IBRD loan amount will be repaid through the sale of
serviced plots and this would greatly reduce the project's net debt
service burden, which should not exceed N 0.6 million per annum after
1990.
B. Local Governments
5.07      As in most other states in Nigeria, local governments in Imo
State have generally depended on statutory allocations rather than
locally generated funds to finance their recurrent and capital programs.
In FY83, external (State and Federal transfers) revenues constituted
some 87% of all local governments' total revenues. Weak financial
management, overstaffing with poorly trained staff, the lack of
incentives, the proliferation of local government administrations, and
poor tax collection performance, have all contributed to local
government's inability in the past to provide more than perfunctory
services.
5.08      The new military administration, in an effort to reverse this
trend, reduced the number of local governments in Imo to their 1979
levels and appointed qualified Sole Administrators to run them. Recur-
rent expenditures have been cut through retrenchment of surplus staff
and weeding out of "ghost workers". Revenues have been improved through
greater collection efforts, raising of licences and fees
(e.g., capitation rates raised), and the introduction of new levies
(e.g., on school-age children, market stalls, small businesses and
shops, mechanics, hotels, and residential, commercial and industrial
plots, etc.) and user charges (e.g., garbage collection fees, health
services, education, etc.). The impact of these measures on local
government finances has apparently been positive.
5.09      The net impact of the project on local governments' finances
is difficult to ascertain due to their recent reorganization. However,
the net incremental expenditure for maintenance of community facilities,



- 32 -
which is expected to amount to approximately N 104,000 per annum, is a
small part of the federal allocation to local government councils. The
project will further enhance the ability of the Obioma Ngwa/Aba, Owerri
and Umuahia local governments to mobilize local financial resources
through technical assistance and training in the key areas of financial
management, operations and maintenance of assets and revenue collection.
C. Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
5.10      The impact of the project on FMBN's finances has been estimat-
ed on the basis of current interest rates for "social loans" (9.5% p.a.)
and a 3% service charge applied to the original loan amount (paras 5.13-
5.14). The analysis is based on best estimates of FMBN's current and
projected financial situation in view of the unavailability of audited
accounts for 1983 until an investigative panel set up in early 1984
completes its work.
5.11      The project is expected to generate approximately 6,400 new
low-income mortgages for FMBN in Imo State between 1985 and 1989,
assuming a 75% take-up rate from beneficiaries. The expanded loan
portfolio and associated revenues and expenditures generated by the
project is estimated to produce a net income for FMBN of about
N 1.0 million (US$1.3 million) yearly from 1988 onwards. This is after
expected small losses of N 0.5 million and N 0.23 million in 1985 and
1986 respectively, and a modest surplus of N 0.46 million in 1987
(Annex 5-3 and Annex 5-4). The early negative project cash flow is due
partly to interest paid on disbursements during construction and
commitment charges on undisbursed amounts. Flow of funds projections
show a net outflow of N 1.25 million (US$1.67 million) in 1985, followed
by net inflows of N 3.0 million, N 5.9 million and N 5.2 million in
1986, 1987 and 1988 respectively. Net inflows in excess of N 4 million
annually are projected for 1989 onwards. The project, therefore, should
contribute to a modest strengthening of FMBN's overall financial
position over the medium and longer-term, with only a minor and
temporary strain on its finances in 1985.
D. Cost Recovery and Pricing
5.12      Cost Recovery.  The bulk of project costs (70%) will be
recovered directly from beneficiaries. The following principles of cost
recovery are to be applied to the various elements of the project:
(a) Land Development. All development costs for on-site infra-
structure, design, engineering and supervision would be borne
directly by the beneficiaries and recovered through the
repayment of mortgage loans on private residential, mixed use
and industrial plots. Home construction and improvement loans
would be recovered through loan repayments. Those charges



- 33 -
which are normally recovered by public authorities in the form
of connection charges or tariffs (e.g., electricity, water)
would be similarly recovered from the beneficiaries in this
project. Costs relating to public areas, such as schools,
community centers and health facilities, would be borne by
ISG. Because of the financial weakness of the utilities, Imo
State has agreed to construct and turn over to the respective
utility the necessary off-site infrastructure financed by the
project. Tariffs for water and electricity, which would be
paid by beneficiaries, currently cover only maintenance costs
but are expected to be raised in the future;
(b) Off-site Infrastructure. Cost for off-site infrastructure,
such as arterial roads, major storm water drains and utility
mains which serve the wider community, would be borne by ISG;
(c)  Area Infrastructure Improvements.  All area improvements and
on-site infrastructure (upgrading) costs in Owerri village
cores and Aba flooded areas, amounting to 6.8% of total base
costs, would be borne by ISG. A study would be funded under
the project to recommend appropriate cost recovery mechanisms
for area improvement investments and local resource mobiliza-
tion (para 3.27 and Annex 5-5), and implemented under a
timetable to be agreed with the Bank by December 31, 1985.
This may entail special development levies or higher property
taxes; and
(d)  Shelter Reconstruction and Improvement Loans, as well as loans
for connection to the utility systems, would be recovered
through loan repayments in a manner similar to that in sites
and service areas.
Thus, of total project costs some 70% would be recovered from
beneficiaries directly, a further 7% indirectly, and eventually, through
school fees, rates and taxes, a further 5%.
Interest Rate
5.13      There is little or no tradition of cost recovery for infra-
structure services provided by the public sector. Nevertheless, the
proposed project would incorporate provisions for the recovery of all
infrastructure and land costs associated with the development of ser-
viced plots, such as crop compensation, roads, drainage, water and
electricity distribution systems, and related design and supervision.
Occupants would repay these costs in monthly mortgage payments to the
FMBN over 15 years. The effective interest rate charged to beneficia-
ries would average about 13.6%, made up of the mortgage rate for "social
loans" (9.5%) charged by FMBN and a service charge of 3% on the original
loan amount. The interest rates to be charged by FMBN are fixed each
year by the Central Bank of Nigeria which in May 1984, announced rises
cost recovery in rates for social loans from 7% to 9.5% in an effort to
narrow implicit government interest rate subsidies. The 3% service



- 34 -
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
COST RECOVERY
COST a/                                   % of
PROJECT ITEM/SUBCOMPONENT                   (N '000)    METHOD OF RECOVERY/SOURCE   TOTAL COST
A. DIRECTLY RECOVERED FROM BENEFICIARIES
-  On-site Infrastructure               15,972.0    Mortgage Loan repayments
(incl. Business Plots)                            (Plot charges)
-  Construction and                     17,590.9    Mortgage Loan repayments
Improvement Loans                                 (Construction loans)
Subtotal                         33,562.9                                     70
B. INDIRECTLY OR ONLY PARTIALLY
RECOVERED FROM BENEFICIARIES
- Central Market Upgrading                  180.0    Higher market fees, taxi
park charges, etc.
- Owerri Core
Upgrading                              3,078.9    Partial recovery through
and Aba (Ndiegoro)                                 higher tax assessments;
Upgrading                              1,967.0    possibility of direct cost
recovery from beneficia-
ries to be studied and
established under proj-
ect (para 3.27)
Subtotal                          3,258.9                                      7
C. NON-RECOVERABLE
- Off-site Infrastructure                2,172.1    State Government
and utilities                                      general revenue
-  Social and Community                              State Government general
Facilities (schools, health,                      revenue (and some fees)
clinics centers) b/                   3,884.0
-  Institutional Strengthening
(a) Studies and Cons. Services        2,604.2    Federal Government
(FMBN)                                       revenue FMBN/States
(b) PIU costs and T.A.                1,031.0    State Government general
Resource Mobilization and            96.0    revenue
Financial Management
Training                            199.3
(c) Maintenance and Urban             1,031.0    Local Government revenues
Services Equipment)                           initially (rate and taxes
in future)
Total non-recoverable            11,017.6                                     23
Total                            47s839.4                                    100
a! All base costs are in April 1984 prices, and exclude physical and price contingencies.
b/ Includes relevant land development costs.
WAPUR
January 1985



- 35 -
charge, which applied on the original loan amount and is recoverable
over the life of the project, has been incorporated into the effective
interest rate structure. This is to recover costs of loan origination,
legal and inspection fees, and to allow for a 10% default provision.
5.14      The combined effective interest rate is lower than the average
rate of inflation experienced by Nigeria in the last three years (about
19%) and lower than the annual inflation rate of 14% projected for the
coming three years. It is considerably higher than the rates charged
under the Federal Housing Program or FMBN's conventional social loans
schemes (between 6% and 9.5%), aimed at income ranges much higher than
those of the proposed project's target population. It is also in line
with the general structure of interest rates prevailing in Nigeria
today, and compares favorably with the commercial lending rate charged
by FMBN, currently 13.0%. In view of the recent upward adjustments in
interest rates, interest rates could not be changed in the context of
this project.
Pricing
5.15      The table on the following page presents the monthly charges
for households according to plot options and construction loan amount,
and reflects the use of differential pricing among the different
categories of plots. Holders of mixed use and residential plots
(categories III and IV) with preferential location would pay 5% to 30%
above the actual development cost. In addition, the industrial plots
(category V) would be priced at 97% over the actual development costs.
The surplus generated as a result of differential pricing will be
applied against plots with less desirable locations. Differential
pricing reduces the cost of smaller plots within the sites and services
area to levels affordable by households earning N 153 (US$204) per
month. The concept of differential pricing is similar to the one
introduced under the Bauchi project.
5.16      In order to demonstrate their ability to pay, participating
households would normally establish savings accounts with FMBN and
deposit sums equal to the subsequent monthly mortgage and service charge
for 10 months, starting 10 months prior to possession of plots and the
granting of loans. These sums, amounting to around 11% of the total
capital requirements, would then be applied as down payments to the cost
of the plots and superstructure. The balance would be recovered through
monthly mortgage payments (para 5.18).



NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
LAND DEVELOPMENT: AFFORD)ABILITY, CHARGES AND PLOT OPTIONS a/
(Base Cost at April 1984)
…
Plot Category b/ and Size                                                        Cateory I                                 Category 11                                Categofy III                             Category IV
Plot Size                                               UN11t    200       240       250      300          200       240       250      300          200       240       250      500          200       240       250       300
Plot Category                                                I IA          I         IC       10           24        2J        2C       2D           30        3B        3C       3D           4A       4U         4C        40
1. Total number of plots                                        No.       2000      570      1050       230         1050      350       Ito       140           go       SO       950       455          300       100      S10       290
2. Iota] number of beneficiaries                                No.      14000     3990      7350      160O         7350      2450     1120       9d0          560       350     65O       31155        2100       700     3570      2030
3. lvelopment cost per plot                                   : -11-      1044      1600     1675      2400         1620      1944     2025      2430         1700     2040      2125      2550         2100     2524      2625      3150
4. Plat parcetieg costs                                       I -I-         --        --       S0        65           60        75       80        90           70         0       83 '5     S            90       1001      105      ItS
5. Ninioun shelter costs                                        -8-       22E0     2250      2250      3050         2250      3050     3350      4000         2230      3050     3350      4000         2230 '30           3350      4000
6. Total capital costs                                        I-l         3294     3930      4175      5515         3930      5069     5455      6520         4020      5170     5560      6645         4440      5670     6060      7265
1. lwn payennt (117 of line 61                                1 -r-        362       432      459       607          432       s58      bOO       717          442      569       6(2       731          406       624      66U       7Y9
B. AIount to be financed iline 6 sinus line 7)                1 -5- '    2932       3490     3716      4900         3498      4511     4855      5a03         3518      4601     4948      5914         3952      3046     3411      6466
9. lotal ao-site inlrastructure llines 3 plus 4 minus 111: -r-            929      1495     1713      2194         1495      1797     1073      2243         1575      1007     1967      2354         1949      2332     2430      2906
10. onthln  principal and interest on infr. lean O 110.0  71 -r-          10.01    16.11    18.46    23.64         1I.11    19.37    20.20    24.17           16.97    20.30    21.20    25.37          21.00    25.15    26.19    31.32
11. RNmtbly service charge 13! of line 9 divided by 12)    ' -1- 1    2.32          3.14      4.28      5.48         3.74     4.49      4.69      5.61         3.94     4.72      4.92      5.89         4.87     5.83      6.07      7.26
12 Total emthly infrastructuwe loan paywets (lines 1041111 -r- 1   12.33    19.85    22.74    29.12                 19.15    23.86    24.80    29.7           20.91    25.06    26.12    31.26          25.07    00.90    32.26    38.56 0
13. Total shelter  oert0age   ai (line 5 sinus [t)             1 -P-:    2003       2003      2003      2715         2003     2715      2982      3530         2003     2115      2992      3530         2003     2715      29S2      3560
14. IonothIl mortgage principal and interest (9.S1)            : -11-    20.92    2B.92    20.92    29.35           20.92    28.35    31.14    37.17          20.92    29.35    31,14    37.17          20.92    28.35    31.14    37.11
15.  mthiy  wortq. lon seHV. fees (32 ofline 13 div.by I2)1  -r-         5.01     5.01      5.01      6.19         5.01     6.79      7.45      1.90         5.01     i.79      7.45      B.90         S.O1       .79     7.43      F.90
16. Total onthly shtiter wtmale loan payeets 114413              -r-1  25.93    25.93    25.93    35.14             25.93    35.14    38.59    46.07          25.93    35.14    38.59    46.07          25.93    35.14    38.59    46.07
17. Iotal mothil payments (lines 12 plus 161                     1-N-     38.26    453.7    48.67    64.26          45.77    59.00    6S.48    15.85          46.83    6O0.1     64.71    71.33        =31.0    _y         =0       54 
=          =         =         ==        =~m       ==== ===                      ===         ===                 WC--==
lQ. Affordable at mnthly income ec/                            : -N-        153       183      195       257          183      236       254       303          187      241       259       309          207       264      283       339
19. Percentile of incoe  distribution range                       I 7:       21       31        33        41           31       44        47        57           32       45        so        57           40        52       54        64
20. Eflective annual interest rate 4d                             I  1   13.60    13.65    13S67    13.66           13.65    13.64    13.64    13.63          13.66    13MO      13.64    13.64         13.69    13.68    13.67    13.66
a/ Table Loners all residential sites and sesvices plots /Categories l-lVI, Category V, small
business plts,  re *xcluded.
b/ Category I - residential, on 5 a service lane; EategorV if - residential, on 9 a acces read;
Category iii - reosidential, on   uwnsrfaced district distributors; tateqory I  - mixed use,
alon  paved district distributor roads; Category V (not showl - small-stale industry,
alng main off-site road netmork.
cl Asoues 253  of household iAcoe allocated to shelter.
dl Total onthly payments (line 171 in relation to jaount financed  line 81.
WAPUR
November 1984



- 37 -
E. Affordability, Replicability and Urban Poverty Impact
5.17      The sites and services component of the project provides
shelter and infrastructure for households between about the 20th and
70th percentile of the income distribution, assuming they would spend
25% of income on shelter. This percentage is reasonably conservative
given the experience in Bauchi State. The table on page 36 presents the
costs and monthly charges of the sites and services program, as well as
the income groups for which the program is affordable. Income
distribution shows that the nominal incomes of N 1,640 and N 4,080
encompass households whose incomes fall between the 20th and 70th
percentiles.
5.18      In the upgrading areas, house improvement loans ranging from
N 500 to N 1,000 would be affordable by about 92% of the households.
The table below presents the costs and monthly charges of the upgrading
program.
Affordability Loan Options--Upgrading Area
Home Improvement Loan a/
Loan Size (Naira)                  500                  1,000
Less:  Down Payment (10%)           50                    100
Total Monthly Payments b/            5.83                 11.65
Affordable at Monthly Income c/   58.3                   116.5
Decile of Income Distribution
which loan is affordable           8%                   14%
a/ Loans for utility connection not included.
b/ 15 years at 9.5% plus 3% on original loan amount.
c/ Assuming families would be able to spend 10% of their income
on the improvement loan.
5.19      The 1982 World Bank relative urban poverty threshold is
estimated to be N 466 or US$620 annual income per capita, implying
monthly income of N 39 or US$52 per capita. The average household size
in the project towns of Owerri, Umuahia and Obioma Ngwa/Aba is
approximately seven persons, the corresponding relative poverty
threshold is N 273 (US$364) per-month, equivalent to N 3,280 (US$4,370)
per annum. Some 47% of the population of the project towns and 83% of
the households eligible for sites and services would have incomes below
this threshold. It is estimated that 80% of the cost of the Imo State
project, excluding technical assistance, would directly benefit
households below the poverty threshold.
5.20      Based on a survey conducted as part of the project feasibility
study, the combined population of Owerri, Umuahia and Obioma Ngwa/Aba is



- 38 -
expected to increase from a level of 720,000 in 1983 to 993,000 by 1988,
implying a growth of 38% over a five-year period. This growth will
generate an additional housing need in the order of 19,500 units between
1984 and 1988 for low-income households with annual nominal incomes
ranging from N 1,640 to N 4,080 in 1984 prices. Given a current backlog
of 14,000 units, and the absence of other low income housing programs in
the project cities, the total demand would amount to about 33,500 units
by 1988.
5.21      The proposed project is expected to provide 8,285 low income
housing units by 1988, around 25% of the expected need. An additional
25,215 units, requiring a capital investment of N 140 million
(US$187 million), at N 5,560 per unit in 1984 prices, would have to be
provided during 1984-88 in order to completely satisfy the projected
need for low-income housing units in the three towns.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The proposed project represents a major effort on the part of
Imo State to strengthen the capacity of existing institutions to respond
to the demand of low-income groups for basic and affordable shelter and
services in the urban areas. It would have the following direct bene-
fits: (a) provision of essential services in land development and
infrastructure improvement areas to benefit a population of about
87,000; (b) improvement in sanitary conditions of the population in and
beyond the project areas; (c) the provision of improved access to, and
supply of water; and (d) the creation of employment opportunities
through the provision of serviced plots for industrial and commercial
use.
6.02      In the longer term, benefits would arise from the institut-
ional support provided under the project at all three tiers of Govern-
ment, particularly: (a) continued support to FMBN for sector and state
urban-related studies; (b) establishment of PIU and the training of its
staff at the state level; and (c) strengthening the capacity of local
governments to improve the collection of local rates and taxes and
maintain and operate their fixed assets.
B. Rates of Return
6.03      Economic rates of return were calculated for land development
and infrastructure improvement areas by analyzing the present and
expected values for shelter and infrastructural improvements, based on
imputed rental values. Property values provide a measurable, though
simplified, indicator of project benefits. Other benefits, only partly



- 39 -
reflected in property values, such as improved health and education,
have not been quantified even though they are expected to have a sub-
stantial and favorable impact on morbidity, mortality, and labor produc-
tivity. The rate of return benefit stream is based on imputed rental
values of core units in both the land development and infrastructure
improvement areas (table on the following page). Rates of return are
probably underestimated, since with marginal investments additional
rooms could later be added resulting in substantially higher benefits in
terms of imputed rental values.
6.04      The following costs were included in the analyses, all in 1984
prices: (a) appropriate site development costs, including land acquisi-
tion, site preparation, infrastructure costs allocable to the project
site, administrative expenses, detailed design and engineering, super-
vision and physical contingencies; (b) on-plot development costs includ-
ing building material and labor, financed through building loans and
household savings; and (c) annual operation and maintenance costs
estimated at 4% of total infrastructure and construction costs. Commu-
nity facilities to be built under the project would serve the whole
town, and were not included in the analysis.
6.05      The evaluation of benefits is based on estimates of imputed
rental values of housing in Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia as
obtained by surveys conducted during project reappraisal. The following
estimates were made:
6.06      To more adequately reflect the true economic values of invest-
ment resources utilized under the project, foreign costs and unskilled
labor costs were shadow priced. A conversion factor of 0.51 was applied
on all foreign costs to reflect the scarcity value of, and a premium on,
limited foreign exchange. This is based on most recent Bank estimates
for the Nigerian economy.



- 40 -
Actual and Imputed Rental Value of Shelter Units
(Naira)
Without            With
Plot Sizes/Areas                        Project           Project
Land Development Areas
200 m2                                       -                 35
240 m2                                                         55
250 m2                                       -                 60
300 m2                                                         70
375 m                                        -                 80
Infrastructure Improvement Areas
(a) Unit requiring reconstruction
loans including water/sewage
connection                              10                35
(b) Units requiring home improve-
ment loan and water and sewage
connection                              15                35
(c) Units requiring water/sewage
connection                              21                35
(d) Units benefiting from area
improvements                            30                35
6.07      The land development and infrastructure improvement components
representing about 90% of project costs would together yield an estimat-
ed economic rate of return of 27%. Separately, the land development
scheme would have a return of about 28% and the infrastructure improve-
ment about 25%. Calculations of costs have been based on very conserva-
tive assumptions given the relatively similar nature of the project in
the Nigeria and Imo State context. Furthermore, rental values have been
obtained from neighborhoods that are not strictly comparable with the
proposed project areas. For these reasons, the economic rate of return
is probably underestimated. The sensitivity analysis in the table below
indicates that if costs increase by 20% and benefits are 20% less than
estimated, the rates of return would fall to 18.7% and 16.0% in the land
development and infrastructure improvement areas respectively and to
18.5% for the project as a whole.



- 41 -
Summary of Economic Rates of Return
(%)
Project as a Whole  (Combined)                       Rate of Return
(a)  Base Scenario                                   27.4
(b)  Costs Increase by 20%                           23.1
(c)  Benefits Decrease by 20%                        22.2
(d)  Costs Increase by 20% and                       18.5
Benefits Decrease by 20%
Land Development Areas
(a)  Base Scenario                                   27.6
(b)  Costs Increase by 20%                           23.3
(c)  Benefits Decrease by 20%                        22.4
(d)  Costs Increase by 20% and                       18.7
Benefits Decrease by 20%
Infrastructure Improvement Areas
(a)  Base Scenario                                   25.1
(b)  Costs Increase by 20%                           20.7
(c)  Benefits Decrease by 20%                        19.8
(d)  Costs Increase by 20% and                       16.0
Benefits Decrease by 20%
C. Other Benefits
6.08      The project represents a significant building volume, and many
of the project's target groups are likely to benefit directly from
employment generated during implementation. An early start on the
technical training subcomponent would provide improved building skills
to the target population thereby directly benefiting project implementa-
tion and future quality of construction.
6.09      Jobs for a variety of skill levels would be accommodated on
the site through 724 fully serviced small-scale plots for mixed residen-
tial/business use and 326 for exclusive business purposes. The total
net area designated for businesses in all of the three towns amounts to
24.7 ha (44.5 ha gross). Using federal standards for Nigerian factories
(7.2 m2 per workplace for industrial/crafts use and twice as much space
for businesses), the total number of permanent jobs in project sites
would amount to 15,460.



- 42 -
D. Risks
6.10      The main risks associated with this project relate to:
(a) the capability of the FMBN to administer an increase in
mortgages of the order envisaged - adding to its current
volume of 1,500 mortgages in Imo an estimated 6,400 low income
mortgages in a 5-year period; and
(b) the inexperience of the various institutions in Imo involved
with this type and scope of project.
6.11      Attempts to minimize these risks have been made as follows:
(a) FM?BN has strengthened considerably the staffing of its Owerri
offices and has opened new savings centers in Aba and Umuahia
in anticipation of the increase in business volume, and it was
agreed during negotiations that further staffing needs of the
Imo Branch would be submitted to the Bank for approval by
September 30, 1985 (para 2.05); and
(b) the inexperience of Imo State Government in carrying out a
project of this type and scope has been recognized and a fully
and a competently staffed Project Implementation Unit has been
established in MWT. This unit has been provided with engi-
neering assistance in contract supervision and administration.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The following actions have been completed:
(a) appointment of a PIU director, acceptable to the Bank, and who
attended negotiations (paras 2.06 and 4.08);
(b) appointment of senior professional staff in PTU acceptable to
the Bank, including a senior accountant, a civil engineer, and
an urban planner (para 4.09);
(c) acquisition of all land needed for the project in Owerri,
Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia (para 3.36);
(d) provision of funds for crop compensation (para 3.36);
(e) preparation of detailed design, engineering and tender docu-
ments for all civil and building works in the three project
towns (para 3.35);



- 43 -
(f) award of tenders for the civil works after prior Bank review
and concurrence, and start of construction in Owerri and Aba
(paras 3.35 and 4.12);
(g) deposit of about N 2.8 million by ISG into the PIU project
account (para 3.36);
(h) establishment of an Urban Development Project Executive
Committee (UDPEC) in a form and with membership and functions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.10); and
(i) establishment of local committees in Owerri, Obioma Ngwa/Aba
and Umuahia in a form with the membership and functions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.11).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances on the following actions were
sought and obtained:
At the federal level:
(a) provision by FMBN of timetable and staffing plan for its Imo
State branch for Bank approval by September 30, 1985
(para 2.05);
(b) submission by FMBN of its five-year financing plan, for review
by the Bank, FMBN and the Borrower by September 30, 1985
(para 2.05) and granting by Federal Government to FMBN as a
loan the share of federal contributions to project costs
earmarked for construction loans and feasibility studies
(para 2.05); and
(c) review of proposed PDD sector studies and consulting services
yearly in advance (para 3.30);
At the state level:
(d) ISG would provide its share of state level contributions to
project costs, to the account of the Project Implementation
Unit in a commercial bank account, three months in advance of
estimated disbursements (para 3.36);
(e) ISG would cause:
(i) Ministry of Education to carry out the equipping and
running of courses in Owerri and Aba vocational training
centers using funds from, and under conditions agreeable
to the Bank (para 3.29), and take over staff and maintain
the schools provided under the project which are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1987;



- 44 -
(ii) Ministry of Health to take over staff and maintain the
health facilities provided under the project which are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1987;
(iii) local governments to allocate adequate funds and to take
over and maintain the community facilities under the
project (para 4.09);
(iv) Ministry of Works and Transport and NEPA respectively to
take over and maintain the water and electric facilities
provided under the project which are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1987 (para 4.16);
(v)  MWT, in consultation with Ministry of Local Government,
to prepare a timetable by December 31, 1985, acceptable
to the Bank, for implementation of the recommendations of
the action plans on refuse collection, vehicle and road
maintenance, and rate valuation and collection
(para 3.27), and cost recovery in upgrading areas
(para 3.27 and 5.12);
(vi) MWT to use beneficiary selection procedures and a stan-
dard agreement acceptable to the Bank for plot allocation
and payment of all charges including loan repayment
(para 4.11); and
(vii) MWT to provide a certificate of occupancy to sites and
services beneficiaries (para 4.07).
7.03      The following are proposed conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements acceptable to the Bank
between Federal Government and FMBN, and FMBN and ISG
(para 3.40); and
(b)  receipt by Bank of legal opinions confirming authority and
legality of loan and project agreements.
7.04      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$53 million equivalent.
WAPUR
March 1985



- 45 -                ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
PROJECT TOWNS
1.        Owerri.  Owerri became the new capital of Imo State in 1976.
The city consists of an urban core of six indigenous villages grouped
around a common central market, interwoven by township tenement houses.
Continued high levels of illegal building in the village cores has
increased density and reduced open space for play areas, public paths
and parking. To the west, a new Capital Development Area has been
designated and is now in the first phase of development by the Owerri
Capital Development Authority (OCDA). Although about 500 public sector
houses have been built since 1976, and private sector building activity
can be seen everywhere, there appears to be an inability to meet low
income housing needs. Current housing needs are estimated at about
5,000 units. Scarcity of accommodation has led to overcrowding and
rising rents, despite the Rent Control Edict. Many buildings,
especially mud and wattle houses in the village cores, need substantial
improvement or replacement. Demolition is not, however, necessary.
Physical conditions in the village core have been improved somewhat by
the construction of new roads and storm water drains. However, defi-
ciencies persist in water supply, sanitation and refuse collection.
2.        Aba.  Aba has been a major economic center in this region
since construction of the railway from Port Harcourt to the north.
There are unplanned settlements in Aba and the surrounding areas where
overcrowding and lack of utilities result in poor environmental sanita-
tion. Some areas flood or serve as refuse dumps. Transportation is a
major problem. Roads are extremely bad and many areas are impassable
during the rainy season, although major road repairs are currently being
carried out in the town center. There is an acute housing shortage
estimated at 14,000 units, caused by large-scale migration in search of
employment. A high proportion of the economically active population is
male whose families remain in villages.
3.        Umuahia.  Umuahia's economic importance is due in large part
to its role as a rail link to the north. Growth has not been as rapid
as in Owerri and Aba and overcrowding is not as critical. The present
housing needs are estimated at 3,000 units.
4.        Living Conditions of the Low Income Population.  The majority
of households interviewed in the three towns during project preparation
had more than six members, with an average house size of 7 persons. In
Owerri, a third of the houses had more than seven rooms compared with



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
over 80% in Aba and over 75% in Umuahia, with part of the house usually
sublet to other families, often with shared kitchen and toilet
facilities. Only 20% tenants were able to save to buy a house. Notably
few had borrowed money from banks for this purpose. Some 15% of houses
in Owerri, 40% in Aba and 27% in Umuahia had water connections on the
plot; 23%, 37% and 38%, respectively had septic tanks. About one-fifth
of the population of Owerri and Umuahia grew vegetables and raised
livestock on the plot. In Aba most plots were used to produce non-food
items. Unemployment figures for the three towns appear suspiciously
high and field observations suggest much underemployment as opposed to
unemployment, with many of the urban poor engaged in work of low
productivity, earning little return for their efforts.
WAPUR
November 1984



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS
Site and Services Area (Owerri,          Upgrading Areas
Service            Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia)                  (Owerri)
On-Site Infrastructure
Roads               (Al) District Distributor I (BITUMEN):
12 m road reserve, 6 m wide carriageway
of seal cost with chippings over prime
coat (MKO/MC1), 15 cm cement-stablized
base course over 15 cm compacted subbase.   Existing
(A2) District Distributor II (GRAVEL):
12 m road reserve, 6 m wide 15 cm com-
pacted gravel carriageway.                    Existing
(A3) Access: 9 m road reserve, 5 m wide
compacted gravel carriage way.
(A4) Service: 5 m road reserve, 3 m           To be provided in
wide compacted gravel carriageway.             conjunction with
proposed building
lines and open
space development.
Footpaths            (A5) 3 m wide, graded and compacted            To be improved
gravel.                                       in conjunction
with public open
space development.
Stormwater           Open 1 m wide trapezoidal concrete-            Concrete-lined
Drainage             lined side drains on one side only             open trapezoidal
of bitumen district distributor               branch drainage
roads (Al).                                   channels feeding
into existing
stormwater drainage
system.



- 48 -                   ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
Site and Services Area (Owerri,          Upgrading Areas
Service            Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia)                  (Owerri)
Open I m wide trapezoidal earth
side drains on one side only of
gravel district distributor (A2) and
access (A3) roads.
Open Vee - earth drain 1 m wide on one
side only of service lanes (A4).
Open Vee - earth drain 50 cm wide
along centreline of footpaths.
Major stormwater earth channels
running through open space/green belt
system.
Pipe culverts at street crossings             Pipe culverts
as necessary.
Drainage design for a five-year               Drainage designed
storm frequency.                              for a five-year
storm frequency.
Water                Reticulated water supply system                Reticulated water
with individual connections to                 supply system, with
each plot at 85 lcd. average.                 possibility for
100% individual
connections to
each dwelling at
85 lcd. average
and public stand-
pipes.
Peak factor 3.5 times average.                Peak factor 3.5
times average.
Fire hydrants:  10 to each 44 ha              Fire hydrants:
layout.                                       2 to each of 5
village core areas.
Sanitation           Individual on-site septic tank and             Common septic tanks
soakaway financed through building            and main feeder
materials loans.                              pipe shared by 7
dwellings. Indi-
vidual connections
to be financed
loans.



-49                    ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
Site and Services Area (Owerri,          Upgrading Areas
Service           Obioma Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia)                  (Owerri)
Electricity/        Low voltage overhead line for                  Low voltage over-
Streetlighting       ultimate 100% individual house                head for ultimate
connections and separate street-              100% individual
lighting with mast-fitted                     house connections
sodium vapor fixtures along                   and separate
all distributor and access roads.             streetlighting with
mast-fitted
sodium vapor
fixtures along
main peripheral
roads throughout
village cores.
WAPUR
November 1984



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
PLANNING STANDARDS
1.        Layouts.  Residential and mixed-use plots ranging in size from
200 m2 to 300 m2 and small-scale business plots of between 250 M2 and
375 m2 would be provided within the project layouts in Owerri, Obioma
Ngwa/Aba and Umuahia. Due to the high cost of providing infrastructure
and services, these plots are smaller than those of other serviced land
on sale in these towns but are larger than in the traditional village
cores of Owerri. On-site infrastructure and public utility networks
would be designed to the following standards: each plot would have
individual access to the water supply reticulation system and be
suitable for individual septic tanks with soakaway. The layouts of the
sites and services schemes result in a relatively high efficiency of
land use, yielding about 63% for residential or mixed use and a private
allocable area of 65%. Adequate open space and space for community
facilities would be reserved.
2.        Plots are grouped in five categories according to their
location and use, as follows:
Category I:          Residential plots along 5 m service lanes;
Category II:         Residential plots along 9 m access roads;
Category III:        Residential plots along unsurfaced
district distributor roads and service
lanes along peripheral highways;
Category IV:         Mixed-use plots along paved district
distributor roads; and
Category V:          Small-scale industry plots along the main
off-site road network.



- 5I1 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 2
3.        Plots would be distributed as follows:
Plot Size (m2)      200      240    250    300    375   Total
Category I        2,570    1,050    -       230      -   3,850
Category II       1,050       350   160    140       -   1,700
Category III         80        50   950    455       -   1,535
Category IV         300       100   510    290       -   1,200
Category V           -          -    60      45    150    255
Total             4,000    1,550 1,680  1,160    150  8,540
% of Total           47        18    20      13       2    100
Layouts would be kept flexible in determining the final number of plots
for mixed or exclusively business use.
Plots Developed for Partial or Exclusive Business Use
Aba          Owerri     IJmuahia        Total
No.      ha  No.      ha  No.        ha  No.          ha
Mixed use         483       12.1  546   13.6  165       4.1  1,194       29.7
Approximately
Two-thirds (800)
use for business
purposes. Plot
size range in
m2              200-300         200-300      200-300           200-300
Small business   123         4.1   88      2.9  44       1.5    255      8.4
Plot size
range in mi2    250-323         250-325      250-325           250-325
Aba small busi-
ness layout      71        6.4   -        -    -         -      71     6.4
Plot size
range in mi2    600-2400         -        -    -         -    600-2400
Total             677       22.5  634    16.5 209         5.2 1,500    44.5
WAPUR
November 1984



- 52 -                                                               ANNEX 3-3
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
FLOW OF FUNDS AND COST RECOVERY DIAGRAM
_                    _   ~~~~~~~~Funds Flow
f( )   a     lch ISJ
(S530m)
s  ,                                 Fk~~~~~~~~Rows
l l  _ oect
. _d                                            Ccronw1?
s:55.aO                                  COstPROeY
I                                                                 S (s530-rirl)  '   '  Soutxe
. 7
1I_____________b FM8N                                                                         _ __ _ __ _  __
I,                                                                                                                            I   
IMCSot  |    (S367m)|              1($3.2m)1
g __ _ _ _ _ _ ~(P l.U
lI                                                                                                                            I
l   I               S12.1 m            S724 m             S282m         S32.7 m                 S4.0 m             S0onn
r(sIOm)         11($62 m)            (S22.5m)     (51311 .nr ,(S26m)                          ($506 m)
SocO Facilithes     hStlctule
off-Ste         Improvements          Lond               Home                tstoe             TA to
I       fnastuctue        (Oerr Abo&         DenentI    Construct,on                 Feasiity           & FMBN D
I    &TrA            Eautpmen)                                Loans             SttUdief          & FMNH
|   I      Genera Store  r n mor veo Areas 1  5   Lana De, (S & S)                                 M
PaI  v Rwerres   J 0   Resouents   t t      lProject rriciates                                 FM,4
L--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Worra Bak--26W
WAPUR
January 1985



- 53 -
ANNEX 4-1
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year     1982           1983           1934          1985           1964          1987           1988
1  21 314   1 12 -3  4  1 -2 -3  _4   1  2  3  4  1  2  _3  4  1  2 -2    4  _1  2  3  4
LAND DEVELOPMENT
Otf-S,te Infrast,uctwre
-O    &                                   * *     *            _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
On-SIte Infrostucture
- Ao wern&Ua .Ota ,  U                          (1*   a 6    a  * *  *                a      ** 
-AGOhiC La ouS      *                           S  S *    *  S *               * * * *  * * * * _  _-       
Hoursrng Loans
- Ab
Incustrral Layout
Socral Sences
-Owe! & umuaoha                         . .                     _*  _ a    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ 
- ADO                        4.."    *-m     *  6* ..            ..               --          S. 
INFRASTRUCTUPE IMPROVEMENTS
-Ob w,                     -              .                       .    .   .   .   . ..        m    . . 
Loans for House Improver-entcr-
& UNt, y Upgad,ng                   j
Legend
- - - -  Survey F not Desan Pepcoalo :1 cad g Z,ocurnerts
*a* a 5 5   Evouofion of Fosa AwaO  0' Cort-cc
SteCearrg Cc-s!rctI r
44,0*       G Loon Program
hrr^'NnavLX5, :ISur3e&enT
*Cr,- 6ourk -646
WAPUR
January 1985



NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (1IMO)
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS a/
EXpected
Project Completion,
Diabursements               Cumulative
Each Quarter                Dlsburseaents        X Cumulative
Quarter EndinB                (USS million)                (USS million)        Disbursements                                                                                                                          100X
FY86                                                                                                         Proj2ct Profile
First Quarter                       4.8                         4,8                    9         _   _        Nigeria Projects Profile
Second Quarter                      2.2                         7.0                   13        -            All Regions Urban Projects Profile                                                                         90
Third Quarter                       2.3                         9.3                   17
Fourth Quarter                      2.4                        11.7                  22                                                                                                                                 80
FY87
First Quarter                       2.7                        14.4                  27                                                                                                                                  70
Second Quarter                      3.1                        17.5                  33                                                                                                                                 70
Third Quarter                       3.2                        20,7                   39
Fourth Quarter                      3.1                        23.8                  45                                                                                                                                 60
FY88                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
First Quarter                       3.0                        26.8                  50.1                                                     e                                                                         50  Cumulative
Second Quarter                      3.1                        29.9                  56                                                                                                                                  50  Expenditure
Third Quarter                       3.1                        2 .0                  62
Fourth Quarter                      3.0                        36.0                   68                                                                                                                                 40
FY89                                                                                                                             /
First Quarter                       2.7                        38.7                   73                                                                                                                                 3 . /
Second Quarter                      2.6                        41.3                   78                                                                                                                                 30
Third Quarter                       2.5                        43.8                   83
Fourth Quarter                      2.3                        46.1                   87                                                                                                                                 20
FY90
First Quarter                       2.1                        48.2                  91                            1,
Second Quarter                      2.0                        50.2                  9510
Third Quarter                       1.8                        52.0                  98
Fourth Quarter                      1.0                        53.0                 100                                                      _                    ,                                                       0%
83            84           a!t¶   1186                   8 87          88            89           90      '    91
previously planned  I                  Current expected'    I                                 IBRD FY's
Board date c/         I                Board date
Assanme date of
cre',it effective-
nesti
a/  Assumus an average lag of o.e year   becween expenditure and disbursemert.
b/  Includes retroactive financing totalling U055.3 million.
cy Project Profile has been lagged by two and one half years relative to Nigeria Pr-jects Pri ile and Bank-wide Urban Project Profile                                                                                          t-1
to reflect delay in actual Board Presentation while project has been under impletenltationl., and :nay be  inconsistent with expenditure projectious. 
WAPUR
February 1985



-      -5                                    ANNEX  5-1
N16ERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELMONENT PROJECT l(IO)
IND STATE FINANCES
(llira million)
1983     1984      1985      1986      19B7      1988     1989      1990      1991
-------Budgeted--------    ---------------------Projected-------------------
REVENUES
Statutory Federal Transfers                           226.6    193.1    196.0    205.8    216.1    226.9    236.2    250.2    262.7
Borroving (incl. Dev. Stock)                           nla       74.4      67.5      74.3     81.7      89.8      98.8    108.7    119.6
of which:
IBRD Urban Project Loan                                 -         -        11.0       8.3       6.0      2.1       0 2
internal Revenues                                      n/a      114.3    117.8    131.9    147.8    165.5    185.4    207.6    232.5
of which:
Incremental Revenues from Project                       -         -         -        0.4       1.5       1.9       1.0       0.5       0.5
Total lao State Revenues                               n/a      381.8    381.3    412.0    445.5    482.2    522.4    566.5    614.8
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Debt Service al                                        nla       67.0      77,1      84.8      93.3    102.6    112.9    124.2    136.6
of which:
Project Debt Service                                    -         -         0.5       1.5       1.6       1.2      0.7       0.6       0.6
Other State Recurrent Exp. b/                          n/a      206.6    235.1    246.9    259.2    277.3    296.8    317.5    339.8
of which:
Incres. maint. and other Project Costs                  0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2      0.5       0.8       0.9       0.8       0.8
Total Recurrent Expenditure                            nla      273.6    312.2    331.7    352.5    380.0    409.6    441.7    476.3
State Capital Investment                               n/a      108.2      69.1      80.3      93.0    102.3    112.8    124.8    138.4
c/
State Contribution to Project                           4.6       0.2       1.5       0.9       0.6      0.4       -         -         -
a/ Includes Urban Project debt service and commitment fees from 1985 onwards.
b/ Includes incremental maintenance costs for project infrastructure plus
operating costs of Projects Isplesentation Unit.
c/ State contributions to Project totalled -N- 4.6 sillion up to the end
of 1983.
WAPUR
February 1985



- 56 -                         ANNEX 5-2
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
IMO STATE FINANCES
Assumptions used for projections in ANNEX 5-1
a/   Statutory Federal Transfers to Imo State are assumed to remain the
same as in 1985 for 1986 and rise by 5% per annum thereafter.
b/   Borrowing by Imo State (including Development Stock loans) to
increase by 10% each year.
c/   Internal Revenues in Imo State are assumed to increase by 12% per
annum in nominal terms.
dl   Incremental Revenues from urban project comprise additional
revenues from ground rent and property taxes from the approximately
8,500 plots developed through the project. In addition, they
include a proportion of revenues from plot sales not used to retire
principal on the IBRD loan.
e/   Debt Service is assumed to rise 10% annually from 1984 onwards.
f/   Project Debt Service includes both commitment charges on
undisbursed loan amount earmarked for Imo State and interest and
principal repayment on the outstanding loan amount not retired
through the sale of the service plots.
g/   Incremental Maintenance and other costs due to IBRD urban project
excludes maintenance costs for electricity and water systems, which
are assumed to be covered by user fees, but includes operating
costs of the Project Implementation Unit (about N 0.2 million per
annum) over the life of the project.
h/   Other State Recurrent Expenditures are assumed to rise by 5% in
1986 and 1987, and 7% from 1988 onwards.
i/   State Contribution to IBRD urban project reflect both past
contributions by Imo State into the project account prior to 1985
(totaling about N 4.8 million), and the balance of counterpart
funding needs.
WAPUR
February 1985



ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 5
- 57 -
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (INO)
FEDERAL IMORTGAAE BANK OF NIGERIA
IMPACT OF PROJECT ON PBN'S FINANCIAL POSITION /a
(Naira Million)
1984       1985       1986        1987      1999       1989       1990        1991       1992       1993        1994
====       ====       ====        ====      ===s       ...........           .. ......             .      .    ........... =  ====  -=,   ====   ,= _ ====
A.RECURRENT FINANCIAL IMPACT                                  --------------------------------------------F 0 R E C A S T---------------------------------------------
Revenues
Interest Receivable                                          0.00        0.00       0.00      1.59       3.03        3.96       4.22       3.82        3.43       3.03       2.64
Service Charges                                              0.00        0.00       0.59      1.17        1.61       1.61        1.84       1.84       1.84       1.84        1.84
Miscellaneous Incowe                                          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Total Revenues                                                0.00       0.00       0.59       2.76       4.64       5.57       6.06        5.66       5.26       4.87        4.47
Expenses
Interest on Borrowing                                        0.00        0.00       1.14      2.80        4.12       4.88       4.92        4.61       4.31       4.00        3.69
Interest on Deposits                                         0.00        0.02       0.07      0.12        0.12       0.08       0.03        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Upfront C harges                                              0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.06       0.07       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Provision for Loan Losses                                     0.00       1.84        1.67      1.11       0.34      -0.41      -0.41       -0.41      -0.41      -0.41       -0.41
Total Expenses b/                                             0.00       1.86       2.88      4.02        4.65       4.62        4.54       4.20       3.90        3.59       3.28
Net IncoteWl, Loss(-) froe Prol.                              0.00      -1.86      -2.29     -1.26       -0.01       0.95        1.52       1.46       1.37        1.28       1.19
B.FLON OF FUNDS IMPACT
Sources of Funds
Project's Net Contribution
fros Operations                                               0.00      -0.02      -0.62     -0.15        0.33       0.54        1.11       1.05       0.96       0.87        0.70
Borrowing                                                     0.00       5.80      12.10     17.50       13.30       6.50       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Loan Repaysents                                               0.00       1.31       2.60       3.58       4.08       4.08       4.08        4.08       4.08       4.08        4.08
Deposits  cl                                                  0.00       0.60       1.20       1.80       1.30       0.70        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Total Sources of Funds                                        0.00       7.69      15.28    22.73        19.01      11.82        5.19       5.13       5.04        4.95       4.86
Application of Funds
Loan Disbarseernts                                            0.00      19.70      19.30    14.70         7.50       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       .Qa
Debt Acortization                                             0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       1.51        3.25       3.25       3.25        3.25       3.25
Total Application of Funds                                    0.00      19.70      19.30      14.70       7.50       1.51        3.25       3.25       3.25        3.25       3.25
Net IvOlola Iv1utfloe(-) of Funds
from Project                                                  0.00    -12.01       -4.02       8.03      11.51      10.31        1.94       1.88       1.79        1.70       1.62
al See assueptions in detailed annexes for FPBN. All IM0 prn1ect activlties cossence in 1985.
bl No allocation sade for depreciation and overheads.
cI Savings schese to assist beneficiaries raise thelir equity for their surtgage.
WAPUR
July 1984



ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 5
- 58 -
NISERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1(MO)
FEDERAL .NORTOASE BANK OF NIGERIA
INCOME STATEMENT
(Naira Million)
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986      1987      178E       1989      1990
Actual     ---Budgeted---        ----------------------------Forecast---------------------------
REVENUES
Interest Receivable
Conventional Mortgages                15.90      26.62      33.09      40.79     50.39      60.72    71.82       84.19     97.95    114.22
IBRD - Bauchi Project Loans            0.00       0.00       0.00      0.01       0.29       0.66      0.72       0.65      0.58       0.52
18RD - Iso Project Loans               0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      1.59      3.03       3.96       4.22
Other Loans                            0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0,00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Interest Receivable            15.90      26.62      33.09      40.80     50.69      61.37    74.13      87.86    102.50    118.95
Income frog Investments                6.10       3.35       4.46      5.65       6.48       8.78    11.87       16. 62    21.98      29.08
Service Charges                        0.00      11.73      14.72      18.00     21.53      25.92    26.8       31.92     37.09      43.13
Miscellaneous Income                   0.40       0.44       0.48       0.53       D.9S      0.64      0.71       0.78      0.86       0.94
TOTAL REVENUES                      23.20      42.14      52.75     64.98      79.29      06.72   113.59    136.58    162.43    192.11
EXPENSES
Adainistrative
Personnel                              B.40      10.25      13.32      16.25     18.53      21.12    24.08       28.90     34.68      41.61
Rental                                 2.10       2.56       3.33       4.06      4.63       5.28      6.02       SUn       7.02       8.76
Training                               0.20       0.24       0.32       0.39      0.44       0.50      0.57        .S5      0.75       0.83
Travelling                              1.10      1.34       1.74       2.13      2.43       2.77      3.15       3.59      4.10       4.59
Other                                  2.00       2.44       3.17       3.07      4.41      503       5.73       6.54       7.45      8.35
Total Admin. Expenses                10.80      16.84      21.89      26.70     30.44      34.70    39.56      46.54      54.79      o4.14
Financial
Interest on Borrowing-IMO PROJ.        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.14      2.80      4.12       4.88       4.92
-OTHER           0.00       7.07      9.15       9.23      11.18      12.79    12.10      17.28      16.46      15.44
Interest on Deposits                   3.60       5.08       8.13      12.53     16.57      22.96    31.44      42.29      56.75      72.05
Interest on Debentures                 0.00       0.00       0.71       i.19       1.31      1.07      0.83       p.59      0.3o       0.12
Upfront C harges-IMO PROJ.             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.06       0.07      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
-OTHER                0,00       0.15       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Financial Expenses              3.60      12.94      18.00     22.95      29.06      37.95    47.16      64.28      70.45      92.53
Operating Surplus                      5.80      12.36      12.86      15.32      19.79     24.06    26.87       25.76     29.19      35.44
Less: Depreciation                      1.50      1.56       2.84       4.31      5.93       7.71      9.67      11.98      14.41     17.33
Provision for Loan Losses        0.00      27.93      6.97       7.39       9.92       9.57     9.24       Q.f        9.22      10.29
Net Operating Surplus                 4.30    -17.12        3.05       3.63      3.94       6.78      7.96       4.87      1.55       7.81
Other Income lSov.SLbvention)         0.00      18.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.00         O       0.00 o      1 0.00
NET iNCOME                           a.30       0.88        .05       3.63      3.94       S. B            .6   '         5.55       7.81
WAPUR
July 1984



59 -                                                           ANNEX 5-3
NISRIA                                                            Page 3 of 5
SECOND WM  DELOMAT PlAECT 1190)
FEDERAL ItO4K RAW O ItSR14
SO ES tAND APLICATION OF FJnS
(MAore Nillion)
1961      1912       1963       1964      19         16         19B7      19M       19         199D
Actual  ----d------------                             ----Forcast                 -----
SORS OF FUNDS
Dparations
NIt Ieone                              4.30       O.a6       3.05      3.63       3.94      6.76      7.96       4.67      5.55       7.11
Ad: Depreciation                       1.5S       1.56      2.64       4.31       5?.3      7.71      9.67      11.66      14.41     17.33
Provision for Loan Lsos           0.00     27.93       6.97       7.39      9.92       9.57      9.24      9.01       9.22      10.29
Funds froa Operations                 5.0       30.3e     12.66      15,33      19.79     2406      26.37      25.76     29.19      35.44
Equity
Ftirl kovernernt                       1.60       0.00      0.00      35.00      35.00     35.00    35.00       55.00     35.0X      40.00
Other                                  0.00 X     000       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Equity                          1.60       0.00      0.00      35.00      35.00.    35.00    35.04       35.00     35.00      40.00
Borrowing
Fentral GSot.                         50.00      23.00      10.00     10.00      50.00      1.10      0,00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Contral lank                           6.70       0,00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
IRD - blchi Project                    0.00      0.00       0.00       1.50       9.00      4.40      0.00       0.00      0.00       DO.
IlRI - too Project                     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       5.80     12.10    17.50       13.30      6.50       0.00
Other Debt                             0.00       O.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     50.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Debentures                             0.00       5.00      5.00       5.00       0.00     O0Oo       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Borrosung                      56.70     29.00      15.00      16.5       64.10     6.50    17.50        13.30      6.50       0.00
Loan Repayeents
Conventional rbrtojgn                  6.50      24.36     29,09      35,97      42.52     49,55    57.28       65.79     75.37      86.14
IIPI - Bauchi Lois                     0.00       0.00      0.50       0.70       0.70      0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70
16NO - Io  Loans                       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.31      2.60      3.58       4.01      4.06       4.08
Dther Loans                            0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
-~ ~~~~~ ---  --       --        ...        -----    ---                     ...---   --
Total Loan Repayment,                 8.50      24.36     30.39      36.67      44.13     52.35    61.56       70.57     60.15      90.92
Culstoor Deposits                    06.80      20.16     25.20      32.76      44.23     57.49    71.87       66.24      99.1I    119.01
Other SoWrces                         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
....     ......      ---       ----      ....-                           ---       ----        ---
TOTAL SOURCES OF FLUNDS               09.40    102.86      83.45    136.27    206.35    235.91   212.80    230.87    250.01    265.37
APPLICATION CF FUNDS
Loan Disb reseents
Conmntlional  ertgqagee               82.30      90.53     99.59    109.54    117.76    126.59   139.25    153.17    172.32    193.86
I0RD - 8anchi Lane                     0.00       0,00      0.50       1.00       6.30      2.70      0.04       0.00      0.00       0.00
IBD -IO  Loins                        0.00       0.00      0.04       0.04      19.70      19.30    14.70       7.50      0.00       0.00
Other Loans                            0.00       0,00      0,00       0,00       0,00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
totai DisbtrseaMts                   82.30      90.53    100.06    110.54    143,76    148.39   153.95    160.67    172.32    193.86
Drbt 4eortization
Federal Sovt. Debt                     0.01      11.99           11.n9  1  .99     .            99  1 199  1.99   1.99     (199      11.99
Central bank Debt                      O.0        1.70       1.70      1.70       1.1N       1.70     1.70       1           .70  1,70  1.70
0i0D - Diachi Dedt                     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      00.8      0.86       0.88      0.08       0.68
183- Ia  Dbet                        0.00       O.QO      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       1.51      3.25
Other Debt                             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00      3.33
Delbnture                              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       2.50       2,50     2.50       2.50       2.50      2.X0
---                  ---        ---       ... ..    ---        ---         --       .... . 
Total Debt 4Aortiuotoon               0.01      11.69      13.69     13.69      16.19      07.06    17.06      17.06      18.56     33.64
Noa Capital Eapiadltures (net         3,50      11.66     14,02      15.42      16.96      16.66    20.52      23.60      27.14     31.21
Itt Increase (decrease) in
Norking Capital(ticl. Cash)            3.40    -32.52       2.24       2.97      15.24      19.71    25.72      33.50      43.67     57.80
-- --               ......     .....      -- - -   --- -      -- -      ......     -- -
TOTAL APPLICATION DF FUNiS          09.21      83.37    130.03    142.62    192.14    204,09   217.26    234.03    261.70    306.51
CASA I CREAOE(+) OR DECREASEI-1        0.19      19.50    -46.57      -i.35      06.20      31.62    -4.46      -3.96    -11.69    -21.14
WAPUR
July 1984



ANNEX 5-3
60                                                                  Page 4 of 5
NI1ERIA
SECOND URSAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT lIMO)
FEDERAL MORTGASE BANK OF NIGERIA
BALANCE SHEET
Nunra Million)
1901      !9B2       1983       1784       1985       1986      1987      1988       1989       1990
Actual     ---Budgeted---        ----------------------------Forecast---------------------------
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                  27.30      46.8S       0.31      -6.04      10.16     41.98    37.52       33.56     21.87       0.73
Short Tern  Invest.                   37.20      44.64      49.10     54.01      70.22      91.2B   118.67    154.27   .200.55    260.72
Other Current Assets                  75.00      37.50      39.3B      41.34     43.41      45.58    47.86       50.25     52.77      55.40
Total Current Asset                139.58    129,02       88.79     89.32    123.79    17B.85   204.05    238,09    275.19    316.85
Mortgage Assets
Conventional                         289.90    356.07    425.77    499.33    574.58    651.62   733,58    820.96    917.91    !025.63
IBRD-Bauchi Project                    0.00       0.00       0.00      0,30       5.90       7.90      7.20       6.50      5.80       5.10
1BRD-loo Project                       0.00       0,00       0.00       0.00     1B.39      35.09    46.21      49.63      45.55      41.47
Other                                  0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0,00      0.00
Total Mortgage Assets               289.90    356.07    425.77    499.63    598.86    694.61   766.99    877.09    969.26   1072.20
Less Provision for
Loan Losses                          7.68      35.61      42.58     49.96      59,8?      69.46    78.70       87.71     96.93    107.22
Net Mortqage Assets                 282.22    320.47    383.19    449.67    538.98    625.15   708.29    789.38    872,33    964.98
Fixeo  Assets                         9.73      21.41      35.43      50.84     67.80      86.46   106.98    130.58    157.72    1898,3
Less Accumulated Depreciation         3.20       4.76       7.60      11.91     17.84      25.56    35.23       47.11     61.52      78.85
Net Fixed Assets                      6.53      16.65      27.83      38.93     49.96      60.90    71,75       83.47     96.19    :10.07
TOTAL ASSETS                       428.33    466.14    499.81    577.92    712.73    864.89   964.09   1110.93   1243.71   1391.90
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                    11.20     13.66      17.76      21.67      24.71     28.16    32.11       36.60     41.73      46.73
Customer Deposits                     57.60      77.76    102.96    135.72    179.95    237.44   309,31    395.55    494.72    613.74
Debt
Federal Got.                        176.10    187.11    195.13    le3.14    221.15    209.16   197,17    185.19    173.20    161.21
Csntril Bank                          17,00      15.30      10.60      11.90      10.20      a.so      6.80       5.10      3.40       1.70
IBRD-Iauchi Project                    0.00       0.00       0.00       1.50     10.58      14.02    13,15       12.27     11.39      10,52
18RD-leo Project                       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      5.80      17.90    35.40       48,70     53.69      50.44
Other                                  0,00       0.00       0,00       0.00      0.00      50.80    50.00       50.08     50,00      46.67
Debentures                             0.00       5.00      10.00      15.88      12.50     10.00      7.50       5.00      2.50       0.°00
Total Debt                           193.10    207.41    208.73    211.54   2lG.oS         309.59   310.02    306.26    294.18    230.54
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  261.90    298.04    329.45    360.93    464.0    575.19   651.44    738.41    930.63    93t.01
Equity
cederal Govt. And Central Gank       150.00    150.00    150.00    IB5.00    220.00    255.00   290.00    325.00    360.00    40:,60
Reserves                               l6.30     17.18      20.23      23.86      27,80     34.57    42.53       47.43      52.95     00,76
.....      - - - ..  ....       -- - -     - - -.      - - -   - - -       - - -     - - -
Total Equity                        166.30    167.18    170.23    208.86    247.80    2B9.57   332.53    372.40    412.95    460,7b
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EGUITY       428.20    460.01    499.6e    577,79    712.o0    064.76   993.96   1110.80   1243.58   1391.77
......    ..... ..., ......    ......                 .. . sa .... ...... ...    
WAPUR
July 1984



N16ERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (I1O)
FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS
IX)
1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986      1987       1988       1989
Actual      -'-Budgeted---        ---------------------------Forecast-------------------
Current Ratio (times)                             12.46       9.44       5.00       4.12       5.01      6.35       6.36       6.50       6.60
Loan Repayeents/Loan Disbursements                10.33      26.90      30.36      33.18      30.97    35.57       39.99      43.93      46.51
Deposits/Net Loans                                20.41      24.26      26.87      30.18      33.39    37.98       43.67      50.11      56.71                        oN
Retuwn on Equity                                   2.59       0.52        1.79       1.74       1.59     2.34       2.39        1.31       1.35
Income from Loans/Total Incose                    68.53      63.18      62.72      62.79      63.93    63.46       65.26      64.33      63.10
Average Cost of Capital                            1.44       4.54       5.77       6.61       6.60      6.94        7.62      9.16        9.94
Average Yield on Loans and Invest.                 6.73       7.48       7.91       8.39       8.54      8.93       9.50       10.07      10.64
Average Interest Rate Spread                       5.29       2.94       2.13        1.78       1.94     1.99        1.88      0.91       0.70
Annual Growth in Financial Expenses                         259.51      39.06      27.51      26.62    30.61       24.27      36.30      22.04
Annual Growth in Admin. Expenses                             22.00      30.00      22.00       14.00    14.00       14.00      17.65      17.73                        3
Annual Growth in Revenues                                    81.63      25.18      23.19      22.01    21.98       17.45      20.24       18.92                    ( 
~Ih
WAPUR
July 1984



- 62 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMIO)
FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income Statement
a.   Interest Receivable
Interest rate charged:
1.   Conventional Mortgages - 1981 - 9.5%; 1982 - 10.0%;
1983 - 11.0%; 1984 - 12.5%; 1985 - 13.0%; 1986 - 13.5%
1987 - 14.0%; 1988 - 14.5%; 1989 - 15.25%; 1990 - 15.5%.
2.   Bauchi and Imo loans 10.0% and 9.5% per annum respectively.
b.   Income on Investments - Rate of interest on outstanding investments
1% below interest charged on conventional mortgages.
c.   Service Charges  3% on initial mortgage, throughout life of
mortgage, for all loan types.
d.   Miscellaneous Income (inspection fees, insurance commission, etc.)
10% increase per year.
e.   Personnel Expenses - Annual increases:  1982 - 22%; 1983 - 30%;
1984 - 22%; 1985-87 - 14%; 1988-1990 - 20%.
f.   Rental Expenses - Annual increases - similar to rate of inflation
of: 1982 - 22%; 1983 - 30%; 1984 - 22%; 1985-89 - 14%; 1990 - 12%.
g.   Training, Travelling and Other Expenses - Annual increases - 1982 -
22%; 1983 - 30%; 1984 - 22%; 1985-87 - 14%; 1988-1990 - 20%.
h.   Interest on Borrowings:
1.  Government debt            4% on average balance outstanding
(old debt) and 8% (new debt)
2.  Central Bank debt          6% on average balance outstanding
(old debt)
3.  Bauchi Project             6% on average balance outstanding
4.  Imo Project                9%  "    t         i        "
for (housing loans) and 10% for
infrastructure loans
5.  Other                     12% on average balance outstanding.
i.   Interest paid on Deposits - 2.5% below annual rates paid on conven-
tional mortgages by customers, as in a(l) above.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2 of 3
j.   Interest on Debentures - 9-1/2% on average balance outstanding.
k.   Depreciation - 10.0% on average per annum (except for 1981 - 15.5%)
1.   Provision for Loan Losses - 10% of mortgage balances outstanding
each year end (from 1982).
Balance Sheet
a.   Short-Term Investments - Annual increases:  1982 - 10%;
1983 - 1990 - 30% .
b.   Other Current Assets - Annual increases of 5% beginning 1982, which
is 50% lower than 1981 level.
c.   Mortgage Assets
Advances - Conventional: Annual increases - 1982 - 10%;
1983-84 - 10.0%; 1985-86 - N 7.5%; 1987-1988 - 10.0% 1989-1990
12.5% 18 years to repay.
Bauchi Loans - (N 10.5 million) 1983 - N 0.5 million;
1984 - N 1.0 million; 1985 N 6.3 million; 1986 N 2.7 million -
15 years - 9.5% in interest charge.
Imo Loans - (N 61.2 million) 1986 - N 19.7 million; 1987
N 19.3 million; 1988 - N 14.7 million; 1989 - 7.5 million;
15 years - 9.7% interest charge.
d.   Fixed Assets (Capital Expenditure) - Annual growth of 20% -
1982-83; 10% - 1984-87; and 15% - 1988-1990. Head Office Building
to come on stream in 1986.
e.   Current Liabilities - Increases equivalent to projected rate of
inflation above.
f.   Current Customer Deposits - Annual increases:  1982 - 20%; 1983 -
25%; 1984 - 30%; 1985 - 35%; 1986 - 30%; 1987 - 25%; 1988 - 20%;
1989 - 15%; 1990 20%.
g.   Borrowings
1.   Government - 1981 balance of N 176.1 million at 4% over
average maturity of 24 years; new borrowings of N 23 million
in 1982; N 10 million in 1983; N 10 million in 1984;
N 50 million in 1987 at 8% per annum for 20 years in each
case.
2.   Central Bank - Balance of N 17 million at year-end 1981 - 6% -
10 years maturity. No new borrowings.



- 64 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 3 of 3
3.   Bauchi Project - 1982 - X 14.9 million - 6% - 17 years -
4 years grace.  Disbursement to FMBN: 1984 - 10%; 1985 - 60%;
1986 - 30%.
4.   Imo Project - (i) 1984 - N 25.7 million (infrastructure
works); disbursements - 1985 - N 5.8 million; 1986 -
N 8.9 million ; 1987 - N 7.5 million; 1988 - N 2.9 million -
17 years - 10%; (ii) N 29.5 million (superstructure loans);
disbursements - 1985 - N 3.2 million ; 1986 - N 10.0 million;
1987 - N 10.4 million; 1988 - N 5.9 million - 17 years - 9% -
4 years grace.
5.   Other Borrowings  - 1987 - N 50 million - 12% - 3 years grace
- 15 years.
6.   Debenture Stock - N 15 million - 9-1/2% - issued in 1982 for
construction of main office in Lagos; equal disbursements in
1982, 1983, and 1984. To be repaid in six equal instalments
1985-1990.
h.   Equity - New government increases as follows:  1984 - 1989 -
N 35 million each year; 1990 - N 40 million.
WAPUR
October 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IMO)
MLG: COST RECOVERY FOR UPGRADING AREAS
PROPOSED TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.        Introduction.  In every upgrading project, the cost of public-
ly financed improvements on the project site, as opposed to those on
individual plots can be classified under two different cost headings:
(a) where primary benefits accrue directly to the residents of the
project site, and (b) where benefits are shared with a population
outside the project area. The former, which consist primarily of
"on-project-site" infrastructure costs, are referred to as "allocable"
costs, i.e., allocable directly to the residents of the project site for
purposes of cost recovery. The latter, which consists primarily of
"off-project-site" infrastructure costs are referred to as
"non-allocable" costs, i.e., not allocable exclusively to the residents
of the project and often recovered through indirect means such as
system-wide charges or general taxation.
2.        To facilitate the financial replicability of projects of this
type in the future and to avoid setting precedents which could lead to
fiscal constraints on the public sector's ability to sustain, and if
possible, expand, the upgrading program throughout the State, ISG has
agreed on the need to establish the principle of recovering allocable
costs in upgrading areas. There is, however, at present no tradition of
cost recovery, especially in low-income areas. Hence, the willingness
to pay is untested, and the incentives and sanctions to elicit compli-
ance within an appropriate policy and institutional framework has yet to
be determined.
3.        Objectives.  To implement the principle of recovering
"allocable" costs in upgrading areas it is necessary to identify an
approach which will result in a high recovery rate at a low cost of
implementation. The proposal contained in the feasibility study and
submitted by the Government to the mission for review at the time of
project appraisal was not analyzed in sufficient depth to be accepted.
It suggested user charges (for refuse collection and water), connection
charges (for individual sewage and water connections), and an increase
in property taxes to recover the public costs of providing common septic
tanks, the main water network, drainage channels and street lighting.
4.        In view of the public authorities' lack of success in levying
and collecting user charges and property taxes in the past, as well as
the insufficient analysis underlying the selection of the modes of



- 66 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 2 of 3
recovery (i.e., user charges, connection charges, betterment rates),
including the incentives, sanctions and institutional responsibilities
in the cost recovery mechanism. It was agreed with ISG that the issue
be studied more carefully by consultants.
5.        Time Horizon of Study.  The study should be finished and
procedures agreed between IBRD and ISG at least six months before
construction works in the upgrading areas are completed in 1988.
6.        Content of Study.  Given the objective of recovery of
allocable costs, it is necessary to identify:
(a) type or mode of recovery; general rates, special levies,
special charges:
-    lump sum versus installment;
-    flat rate versus differential pricing (criteria for
latter);
(b)  collection mechanism and institutional responsibility, e.g.
-    loading on FMBN loan charges;
-    loading on LG property rates;
-    loading on NEPA or water supply rates;
-    development levy by Local Government, differentiated
between area tax to be paid by individuals or as collec-
tive responsibility of village residents (via e.g.,
Ministry of Local Government) etc.;
-    other (e.g., payments for regularizing of tenure).
7.        It is necessary to determine each group of beneficiaries'
ability and willingness to pay for infrastructure services; (a) without
home improvement loans; and (b) with home improvement loans; and to
determine how to recover on-site water and sewage system charges from
those households who connect to the system but do not take out a loan
for that purpose.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 3 of 3
8.        For this, it is necessary to determine in addition to total
number of households, how many of them are expected to be in the follow-
ing beneficiary categories:
A - households to connect to water (i) with (ii) without loan;
B - households to connect to sewerage (i) with (ii) without loans;
and
C - households to connect to both water and sewerage (i) with (ii)
without loans.
WAPUR
November 1984






IBRD 15465
- ."  6  V                                                                              *    14       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1961
.0'    '|)lo              =       S            0  1'   ;          N  ! zG  E R                                            sob.  _  B,oIG':R              n
>                 1               (''              i    ':\         >p      vt\r0:   ,.OKOTO\  - -                                '-                                  g°3
Nkl  G   E  R            j                          '                                            -.                       Ng 
:z j z; : 2: > > J 2B,o,, C0Nigobb,o                           K X°o,,,o   : ;0 do'0                                                DC:               G,O;
SN ~  ~    ~ ~ -    SE'               K     0                                                                                <                       ,     _,T         ;t ,i0
130 0      4         4 ; +                     < ; T                       $         o   r                                                                                     ffi (i  00
/~~                                                                                                                 - \0~  Uooo                                              CAM 00 ^   M DEeERNI
2'  _¢   91  jr   ki=  z>~~~~~~~~~~~ t w f A -  >tXr;            ,/                                                   A-3  FEirrittlUnrg Trunk RoPodms"Aa   S ~~~~~~~Eoitio TroA ood "A
0 A F R | C A   \\>  }  -d>   wo,,i     WeRR;<    S 4           E   VER<Tt~~~ C A ME  ROC 0I OSl _|tote Boundo3ries 
-                                                          8                                     lQ*                  . 12-






IBRD 15294
NOVEMBEER 980)
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SITE AND SERVICES- OWERRI
OPNSPACE
,,>  I                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENTIAL AREA
I  ~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~  ~~~~~~ ~~SMALL SCALE BUSINESS
Church  U                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUBLIC FACILITIES
Health  l~~~#~  Church                       E~~ ~  TREES, GREEN  BELT
j                                                               5)                                      ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACCESS ROADS
95                         5))                                                                           SZUZZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- EXISTING  ROAD
Primary                       5)                                       *  REFUSE COLLECTION POINTS
95)   School                                                     THE fcILOWING IFCEND ITES  RE SHOWNV
5)                                #                               0~~r --IONV/Al I RERESINTAT/VE MEAP AREAS
S  ho                                                                                                              5DRAINAGE MAIN COLLECTOR
WF =y                                                                                                             ------ CONCRETE DRAINAGE CHANNEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  OCET  RIAG  HNE
Health Centerng------ EARTH DRAINAGE CHANNEL
-0 i                                            ChurCh                                                                                       ELECTRICITY
LVOOERHEAD LNE 4-ID0..,,'
N-             :r1)S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                 ft ~~~~~~~~~~LV OVERHEAD LINE 1-5-
p    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I-PIPE ON 20ED,,,
II                                                               II               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIPE DRi5T,,
----- RPiE DN 50 ,,
PROPOSED                   HI WA
OW ER  RI (POPOSED CLAD-
SO5  lEA   ITO   20U   250
r----1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-  NIGERr
IDfl            NIGERIA
STEROMS                              .~~~~~~~SO OM 
ANOD PR/NC/P






I B H D 15295R
N IG E RIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'T 
SITE AND SERVICES-ABA/OBIOMA NGWA
0 ER                        ~~~~~~~SITE BOUNDARY
T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~llc                                                                       OPEN SPACE
v                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENTIAL AREA
~~' ~~  ~~4)           '%       AxS~~~~T?R  SMALL SCALE BASINESS
EIPUBLIC FACILITIES
£   B                                                   LB  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TREES, GREEN BERLT
IF ~       ~         1                                                         ACCRSS ROADS
'8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I EEXPASTING RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
X EISTING INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES
I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primnr                       EXISTING ROADS
A                                                                           I                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  :  h  REFUSE COLLECTION POINTS
4        5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  OOrF SITE STORMWATER DRAINAGE
~~~    S~~S
r   t ~ ~ ~ ~ 5            t'      
04
4'                                                                                            51Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0J
Church ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          1~~~Cn                                                                                                     ,1
0                                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
0 0 0 0                                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
0  0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2                                                                                  0 
Pi..r                                C)      0 C) 0                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
S0~Pimoy                                                                                                                   0                00                 - 
- ~titniu~i   -    ~    ~       +     t      ~          1                    I)           00 0000             000           10      1001 c O
N I G51   E R       I'       CHAD
5150. WAER         ELECEPICITY        WATR SUPPLY                 l         NIE 
'HE.R.I ..~~~~~- 'Zn.  MI 0 IM                   LYAPLYISI~~~~~~~E   A------55          TE EEIO...        I      2,                   /IA         I               p               M-. R1(s,
-                  TASTY USASRUAS                        PIPE AN 5011.11   5,,.-,..                      CAMEROON <AR                                               0      IWO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR  ~~Id.y ..
CY,A-IPER                                                    '!  I             .           ,                                     Recondo,            T-1
________________________________________________L______                                                 '              .~,                                               WSO



\



IBRD 15296
,.                        10* ,            .C3ERIA ,                                                                                                                                                             VEMEEE I9e0
J~~1 I   !   NIGER                        JN I G E R I A
-     CHAD                                    SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SITE AND SERVICES- UMUAHIA
.--V .                    I           G E R I A
0W'~~~& '''1. 
I Lgos                           CEN/  / NTRAL
ik.                ~~urn  hia                 AFRICAN
L CAMEIK0rN . REP.
Main Roads
Secondary Roads                      UMUAHIA
-i--RoilroadA
/ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~  ~~~                                ~~~~~ I~  k     >fOt W M   ffV  n M  PfS O No z  vP Pff V A /M PA E
I   /     \      /                              1t) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~xtn           ion                                                   SOR  EAER                 SETRINGY   NU T ERIA  STUCTURE
//\ND                                                                               A       A             L  O PE N  SA C
/ ! IE                                                METERS | cCNARES IDENTIAL AREA
ii/                                         5r/ O,  .2 4 .t. .E 1.0 Thhz_tlae_  ~X                                                                                 FARTHSMALL SCALE BUSINESS
:k)  TREES, GREEN BELT
ACCESS ROADS
REFUE CLLECIONPOINTS
5                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HP fOlIO HWINO IPEND ITEMfS ARE SHOWN aNiT IN REPRESENTATIVE MAP AREAS'
STORM WATER!            ELECTRICITY:            WATER SUPPLY:
NDRAINAGE MAIN                 L.V OVERHEAD      --PIPE DN 200.nsr
so   10(                    ~~~~~COLLECTOR            LINE 4x100enr2    -        
CCONCRETE DRAINAGE . ...... LV. OVERHE ADPIED  0
CHANNEL                 LINE 4'35..       ---- PIPE DN IO0a
9   -?   4 ~    ~ I4   I 10                             ~                                        d       .EAETH DRAINAGEPIED  Or.
KILOMETERS                                                                                                 CHANNEL~~~~E ~O d~        a.ef -e pS,.WMB,k~ldE






!BRD 15297
N    I G    E  R  I A                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 1980
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OWERRI UPGRADING
_j Boundary of Built-up Area
Building Line Pedestrian Routes
P b ic Open Space
><
Prioe Open Spoce
Trees
6k",$ Z,10                      I
iruwu Open Space for Car Parking
Mo,n Direction of Buildings
Neighborhood Halls
Existing Woter Pipe
------ Proposed Woter Pipe
Street Lighting
0     Septic Tonks
0     Refuse Collection Points
Umuodu                                                                              Ororonio                                                             muonyech
OWERRI
0       50       10,0               200
METERS
%
h. 0 M. W-11
f -.h
J,                                                                                                          muodu (Uhu)
M A L I                       lo-
gr
Sit                                    N    I  G    E  R
N I G E R I A
>
 werr,          ROON
o,n     s                                                            o
Secondary Roads                                                               EQ. GU4EA
Streams                          0        1       2                      SAO TOME
I                   AND PRINCIPE
KILOMETERS
Ama Awom                                                                              Umuoyima                                                                                                                              3ABON



