Documeat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6415
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 1310-TU)
September 24, 1986
Urban and Regional Development Projects Division
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted diutribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WashmSton D.C.20433
U.S.A.
Oft* of DiVd40.CUSWul
September 24, 1986
NERANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey South Antalya Tourism
Infrastructure Project (Loan 1310-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure "roject
(Loan 1310-TU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
Regional Office. Under the modified system for project performance auditing,
further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discwsed without World Bank authoriztion.



FOR OFFMcL USE ONLY
TURKEY: SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   . * * . ........................................................                        i
Key Project Data               ............. .    .................                              ii
Mission Data  ........ ........... ............. . .................                             ii
Country Exchange Rate  .......... ..................................                             ii
Acronyms and Abbreviations  .... .....             ........ ....  .....................          ii
Highlights  .............................................................                      iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .......................................................                    1
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PREPARATION  ........ ...............                             1
Identification,  Preparation and Appraisal  .................                           I
Project Objectives  ...........................                 ...............         2
Project Description  ........... . . ..   .....................................         2
III.   IMPLEMENTATION  . ..............              ...................... ... *.......* ,      3
Effectiveness ............... ...                       .......                          3
Implementation Schedule  . ................. ...  ............. .                       3
Land Acquisition  .....................................................                 4
Project Content and Revisions                 ............................              4
Project Costs  .......................................................                   5
Disbursements  .................   ................                                      5
Procurement and Contractor's Performance ..................                             6
Performance of Consultants  ...............................                             6
Reporting  ..                   ..................................... . .........        6
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCE  ..              ...............................     ..            6
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  ....................               ............ . ...             8
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS  ...              .................................                 9
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ....................    10
VIII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK .........    . ......                                                 12
IX. CONCLUSIONS ..................    13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNMES
I.   Visitor Arrivals in Turkey ..............  ...........*e.e..   14
II.   Project Implementation, Actual and Expected .............   15
III.   Project Costs, Actual and Expected .......      ...............    17
IV.   Loan Disbursements, Actual and Expected        .................   20
V.   Economic Re-Evaluation ** *    ...............................    21
VI.  Couments from Borrower ........................    25



TUREY:SOUTH ANTALYA TOURIS  INRAYU~CTU~RE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
PREFACE
This report presents the results of the review of the Turkey: South
Antalya Tourism Infrastructure Project (14an 1310-TU) which was approved by
the Executive Directors on July 6, 1976, and for which the last disbursement
was made on July 29, 1986.
The report was prepared by the SHEMA Urban Projects Division on the
basis of a review of Bank files, reports prepared by the Borrower, and the
findings of a Bank mission comprising Messrs. David B. Cook and J.A. 8immon
which visited Turkey in August, 1985. The work of the Bank mission was
greatly facilitated by the assistance provided by personnel of the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism4', particularly the Project Directorate, and of the
Tourism Bank, particularly the Antalya Investments Department.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OWD staff. The
draft report was sent to the Borrower. the comments received are attached to
the report as Annex VI.
I/ Ministry of Tourism and Information until 1983, thereafter Ministry of
Culture and Tourism.



- 1i -
,,Y SOUTh ANtALYA touRSM  PROJECT - PROJECT CInPLETION REPORt
(Loan 1310-tU)
IEY   P R O J E  T T   D A T A
Appraisal                           Actual or
1km                                 EaXectatiane                      Cstimts d Achpal
Total Project Cost (US5 million)                                66.0                               43.0
Underrun or Overrun (1)                                                                     35.0S
Loan/Credit AWunt (US$ Million)                                 26.0                               26.0
Disbursed                                                                                   18.7
Cancelled                                                                                    7.3
Repaid to
Outstanding to
Cate PhtysiCal Coonents Completed
Preport1ion Caleted by Above Oats (X)
Proportion of Time Underrun or overrun (E
EConomic Rate ot Return (M)                                     '72X'
Financial Performnc                                         Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                                   Satisfactory                        Satistactory
t  HE R   P I 0 8 E C T   D A T A
tts,                        Original                                                    Actual or
Plan                    Revisions                   Ecti1mtad Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable                                                                             02-72
Governmrnt's AppliCation
Ngotiations                                      05/26-OS/27/76            0S/07-06/03/76                 05/07-06/03/76
Bard Approval                                                                                                   07/06/76
Loan Agre_nnt Date                                      -                           -                           07/09/76
affectiveness Oate                                   12/01/76                   03/01/78                        03/01/78
Closing Date                                         12/31/82              12/31/83  12/31/84                   12/31/84
Final Disbursent                                                                                                07/09/85
Berroer                                              The Republic of Turkey
txecut1ng Agecy                                      Ministry of Tourism and Inforation/linistry of Culture and Tourism
fiscal Year of lorrowe'                              March 1 - February 28
follow-on Proj3et Nam                                            None
3 I   5 t  a 11      A t A
fto                  Month/Year             bo. Of Wn eks        Ng. of Persons        Mreaek sate ot Rert
Identification               02/74                   1.3                   3                  3.9                02/27/74
Preparation 1                04/74                   1                     2                  2                  04/30/74
Prepration It                08/74                   2                     3                  6                  08/22/74
Preparation tIt              10/74                   1.6                   3                  4.8                11/01/74
Preparation tV               02/7s                   1                     1                  1                  02/24/7S
Preparation V                06/7s                   I                     I                  1                  06/19/75
Prepration VI                09/7S                   2                     4                  8                  10/14/75
Appraisal CoPleti0n          11/75                  J                      6                 la                  04/02/76
Sub-Total                                         12.9                                     44.7
Supervision t                11/76                   2                     2                  4                  12/09/76
Supervision It               02/77                   1.2                   2                  2.4                03/01/77
Supervision ttt              07/77                   1.2                   2                  2.4                08/02/77
Supervision IV               09/77                   1                     2                  2                  09/20/77
Supervision V                OS/78                   2                     2                  4                  OS/lS/78
Supervision VI               10/78                   1.2                   2                  2.4                10/09/78
Suoervision Vtt              02/79                   1.2                   1                  1.2                02/26/79
Suoervision VIII             09/79                   1.8                   1                  1.8                09/2'/79
Supervision IX               07/80                   1.6                   2                  3.2                08/OS/8O
Supervision X                09/80                   1.4                   1                  1.4                11'26/80
Supervision XI               03/81                  2                      1                  2                  03/23.81
Supervision XII              02/82                  2                      1                  2                  03/26/82
supervision Xlt              08/82                  2                      2                  4                  08/10/82
Supervision XIV              12/82                   2.6                   2                  5.2                01/11,83
Supervision XV               07/83                  2                      2                  4                  08/OS/83
Supervision XVI              12/83                   2                     2                  '                  01/05/84
Supervision XVII             OS/84                  0.8                    I                  0.8                OS/31/84
Supervision XVIII            09/84                   0.5                   2                  1.0                10/26/84
Completion                   08/85                   2                     2                 AA
Sub-Total                                       ILL 
Grand Total                                        44.4                                      98.5
c Q 11 R Y    E X C H A N  GE    R A T E
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                          Turkish Lira ('L)
Year
Appraisal Year Average (1975)                  Exchange Rate: USSI * rL 15.00
Interventing Years Average (1976-1984)                         USS 1   TL114.6
Completion Year Average                                        US$l   TSLOo.0
ACRONYMS AMD ASREVIATIOUS
tot                  Tourism Bank, Inc.
PRO                  Project Directorate
PT?                  Post. Telegrap  ane Telephone OrganiXation
UNOP                 United Nations Oevelopwnt Programme



- iii -
TURKEY: SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
HIGHLIGHTS
The objective of the South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure Project was
to provide the infrastructure for a new resort area with a design capacity of
some 6,000 rooms or 12,000 beds in hotels and holiday villages by 1990. The
project was also designed to include infrastructure and other facilities
needed to turn the village of Kemer into a service center for the project
area, housing for hotel employees, hotel training facilities, rational
improvements in the adjoining nationa, park and measures to preserve and make
more accessible to visitors the Phaselis archaeological site.
Although the project is .lot yet fully completed and is likely to take
not less than four years longer to complete than the six years envisaged at
appraisal, the objectives of the project have been largely realized. Most of
the infrastructures ar' in place, and the project has attracted great interest
among private investors who are developing hoteles and holiday villages on a
scale which indicates that the capacity target will be achieved by 1990 or
soon thereafter.
Reflecting the high inflation rate in Turkey and the delays in
project execution, project costs in Turkish Lira are expected to be more than
eleven times greater than the appraisal estimate. In US dollars, total
project costs are expected to be 352 below appraisal estimates.
Despite the decline in project costs, delays in project
implementation and in the development of visitor accommodations contribute to
a re-estimated ERR of 10.5%, substatitially below the 17.2% estimated at
appraisal. This lower ERR also reflects lower visitor expenditures in real
terms than estimated at appraisal. The appraisal methodology does not take
into account, however, benefits from the project flowing to the local
population. These are substantial and, if included, would significantly
increase the rate of return.
The financial returns to the Government on its investment in the
project are likely to be adequate, though the definitive charges for
infrastructure services have yet to be determined. The financial returns to
private investors in hotels and holiday villages appear attractive on the
basis of the limited operating data available to date. The principal
beneficiaries of the project have, however, been private landowners in Kemer
and investors in holiday homes and condominiums, who have realized large
capital gains. Ways for Government to share in these gains, which are a
direct result of its investment, need to be considered.



- iv _
The Government is still considering the form and structure of the
organization which will be responsible for operating and maintaining
infrastructure services in the project area. The organization and staffing of
the hotel training school have also still to be determined. A project
component which has been largely overlooked in the course of project
implementation is the providion of housing for hotel employees. With the fast
growth of visitor accommodations, the lack of employee housing is becoming
increasingly acute. The provision of employee housing is an obligation of the
Government under the Loan Agreement (Section 3.08 (b)), and the means for
providing housing on an equitable basis need to be agreed between the
Government and private hotel investors.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     A Bank mission visited Turkey in 1970 to review with the Turkish
authorities the possibility of Bank assistance for tourism development. At
that time, the project which appeared to have the best prospects of
implementation was one to create a new resort near the ancient city of Side on
the Mediterranean coast, some 50 kms east of Antalya. In subsequent exchanges
with the Turkish authorities, various alternatives were considered. and as
Turkish tourism planning developed, it was agreed that a coastal area south of
Antalya should be selected for further intensive study within the framework of
plans to develop new beach tourism destinations on Turkey's Mediterranean and
Aegean coasts.
1.02     Turkey possesses major tourist attractions, both natural and
man-made. Its climate with long dry summers, the beauty and variety of its
scenery, its extensive and largely unspoiled beaches on the Mediterranean,
Aegean and Black Se:a coasts and its wealth of historical and archaeological
sites, with remains of Hittite, Greek, Roman, Byzantine, Seljuk and Ottoman
civilizations, offer a combination of tourist attractions comparable with any
other Mediterranean country. Nevertheless, Turkey's share in Mediterranean
tourism has for long been small (only 1-22 of international tourist arrivals
in Mediterranean countries) and well below the country's potential.
1.03     In the decade ending in 1973, foreign visitor arrivals to Turkey grew
from just under 200,000 in 1963 to 1,341,500 in 1973, at an;average growth
rate of 21% annually. During the same period receipts from international
tourism rose from US$7.7 million to US$171.5 million, and as a percentage of
the value of merchandise exports rose from 2.1% to 13.0Z. This consistent
growth of traffic appeared to provide a basis for projecting further growth if
additional tourist facilities were provided, and while the energy crisis late
in 1973 contributed to a fall in foreign visitor arrivals in the following
year, there was a sharp rebound in 1975 when arrivals rose by nearly 39% to
reach 1,540,900. These two years (1974 and 1975) were the time of most
intensive preparation of the South Antalya praject.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PREPARATION
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
2.01     Istanbul and its environs have been the principal tourist destination
in Turkey for many years but the development of hotel accommodations and other
tourist facilities, first on the Aegean and subsequently on the Mediterranean
coasts has brought a diversification which the project was designed to
support. The selection in 1973 of the 15 km coastal strip south of Antalya as
the site for the development of a new resort area followed the preparation of
a comprehensive master plan for the whole Antalya region by the Ministry of
Tourism and Information. This was in turn followed by the preparation, with
the assistance of experts financed by the UNDP, of a more detailed plan and



feasibility study for the proposed resort which was completed in 1975. The
project was appraised in November, 1975 and the Bank's loar. for the project
was approved on July 6, 1976.
2.02     The project area was selected because of the great natural beauty of
the site, the existence of archeological remains in the area, of which the
principal one was Phaselis, a colony of the Kingdom of Rhodes established in
the 2nd century BC, favorable access from an airport at Antalya capable of
receiving B727's and similar aircraft, limited agricultural development on
which the resort would not encroach and good quality beaches safe for
swimming. At the time of appraisal construction of a new runway, taxiways and
parking spaces at Antalya airport was already underway. Other infrastructure
services required for the resort, - electricity, telecommunications, water,
sewerage, drainage and solid waste removal - were lacking.
2.03     Matters of particular concern during the preparation and appraisal of
the project were the arrangements for project implementation, the acquisition
of land needed for the project, the approval of detailed land use plans for
Kemer and of the regulations for enforcing the regional master plan, and the
need to provide training for hotel staff and housing for a portion of hotel
workers in order to attract hotel investors. These concerns were reflected in
the recommendations of the appraisal mission and subsequently in the terms of
the Loan Agreement concluded between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank.
Project Objectives
2.04     The project's objectives were to provide the basis for the
development of a new resort with some 5750 rooms, south of Antalya, having due
regard to preserving the beauty of the environment, to promote economic
activities iia an area of limited development and to augment the country's
foreign exchange earnings.
Project Description
2.05     The project was to comprise the following components:
(a) completion of the main highway from Antalya to the project area and
construction of access roads to the tourism sites:
(b) water supply, sewerage, solid waste disposal, electricity and
telecommunications for the tourism sites;
(c) water supply, sewerage, electricity, telephone, streets, sports
accommodations, park, health clinic and service buildings for the
tourism support center of Kemer;
(d) hotel training facilities;
(e) construction of housing for hotel employees;
(f) construction of a small craft harbor at Kemer;



- 3 -
(g) campgrounds, day-use beaches, beach and other facilities in the
national park;
(h) preservation works at the Phaselis archeological site; and
(i) funds for project management, studies and consultants.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness
3.01     Among the conditions of effectiveness of the Loan were the conclusion
of subsidiary loan a&reements between the borrower and the agencies
responsible for implementing the electrical and telecommunications components
of the project (Kepez and PTT respectively), the adoption of detailed land use
plans and regulations with supporting maps for the tourism development area
and for Kemer, initiation of expropriation procedures for the land required
for the development of tourism facilities through 1981 at the principal
tourism s8tes and for the infrastructure and support services in Kemer, and
the appointment of the Director of the Project Directorate (PRD), responsible
for co-ordinating project implementation. Difficulties were experienced in
meeting all these conditions of loan effectiveness, as a result of which the
loan did not become effective until March 1, 1978, nearly 20 months after the
loan was signeu on July 9, 1976.  In spite of delays in loan effectiveness,
however, consulting services were organized by the PRD and design work on the
water supply, sewerage, Kemer infrastructure and Kemer marina components
began. The Tourism Bank was appointed to provide these services and in due
course organized a special team to carry out the work. Furthermore work on
the extension of the highway from Antalya to the project area by the Ministry
of Public Works continued prior to Loan effectiveness, as did the construction
by Kepez of a 31.5 kv electric power traaamission line from Antalya to service
the project area. Work also proceeded on the design of a 154 kv transmission
line from Antalya to Finike and of step-down transformer stations for Kemer
and Finike.
Implementation Schedule
3.02     The project at appraisal was expected to be completed by June 30,
1982. While most project components are completed, several, including the
main access road to Kemer from the Antalya-Finike Highway, the hotel school
and training hotel, the marina superstiuctures, the Kemer promenade, some
streets in Kemer and staff housing, remain unfinished. The project was about
852 complete at the end of 1985. If adequate funding can be provided and the
few remaining land acquisition problems resolved, the project with minor
exceptions should be completed by December, 1987. In this event, the project
would record a time over-run of about five and'a half years or 92%. The
principal reasons for the delays in project execution included a reduced
Government interest in the project during the later 970's, land acquisition
(para. 3.03), the difficulties in establishing an effective Project
Directorate which resulted in poor co-ordination in some instances of the work
of different executing agencies, and difficulties in securing adequate lira
financing during years of rapid inflation and cost escalation. (Wholesale
prices have increased on average by over 40% annually in the past ten years).



-4-
Land Acquisition
3.03     Despite the fact that most of the land allocated to the Project
belonged to Government ministries, the acquisition of private land, sometimes
by expropriation, and by the application of Article 42 of the Reconstruction
law to the Kemer Urban Area proved time consuming and onerous. There are many
reasons for this including: initial delays were caused because no approved
master plan existed; because land owners successfully claimed that the
Ministry of Tourism was not a competent authority to deal with land
expropriation; it was not always clear who actually owned the land and in
certain instances, after ownership was established, funds were not available
to complete the purchase. By the time funds became available, land values had
begun to rise, the original agreements to purchase were invalidated, and the
whole protess had to start again; certain structural intrusions into roadways
required action by the Supreme Court, which was extremely time consuming; and
valuations of land did not take into account the dynamism which entered the
land market in the Kemer region when urban development got under way. In the
early years of the project (1976-81), tourism investment was accorded low
priority by the Government and the Land Registry Office was slow in handling
expropriations. Project implementation accelerated markedly after the change
in Government in September, 1960 when greater priority was accorded to tourism
as an earner uf foreign exchange. Procedures for land acquisition were
accelerated and adequate budgetary provisions were made to finance land
acquisitions and permit a smoother implementation of physical works. The pace
of implementation has slowed in the past year, however, reflecting the
difficult overall budgetary situation and continuing problems in acquiring the
few remaining land parcels required for project completion.
Project Content and Revisions
3.04     The implemented project when completed wili correspond quite closely
with the project as appraised. At appraisal, the simultaneous provision of
major infrastructure services, particularly electric power, water supply,
sewerage, drainage and solid waste removal seemed an ambitious objective, but
in the event these components have been completed satisfactorily. With the
delays in project execution and the increase in costs in terms of Turkish
lira, some relatively minor project elements have been deleted or deferred.
Sports facilities, public parks, excursion boats, a bus terminal and small
industrial facilities in Kemer are among such elements, as are some facilities
planned for the aational park such as helicopters with fire-fighting equipment
and two motorboats. However three fire-fighting trucks together with new fire
control roads and look-out towers have been provided as well as new camping
facilities though with smaller capacities than envisaged at appraisal. An
element which has been significantly modified from the concept at appraisal is
housing for hotel employees. At that time it was argued that the project
should include low-cost housing for about 30% of the hotel employees expected
to migrate to the project area by 1981: this was estimated to require 280
units in the first stage with a further 720 units to accommodate additional
staff needed by 1)90. Construction of 126 family units is in progress and 150
sin-le quarters will also be provided, approximately the same number of units
as envisaged at appraisal. However, these units will be used to house civil
servants working in the Kemer administration and higher level staff working in
the hotel training school and the Tourism Bank's planned hotel at Kemer. They
will not be available for hotel staff generally as envisaged at appraisal, and



- 5 -
solutions to the problem of housing hotel employees have not yet been
devised. The study for promoting tourism in the project area was delayed
following delays in project execution. A report on marketing strategy for the
project area was completed in 1980. With the increased pace of project
implementation in subsequent years, and the great increase in interest by
private investors in the project area, further special efforts of promotion
appeared unnecessary. The economic study of hotel profitability and tourism
incentives was started by the Research Directorate of the Ministry of Tourism
and Information in 1977; subsequently following personnel changes in the
Directorate, the study was suspended. A decree providing for measures and
incentives to promote investment in the tourism sector was published in 1980,
but the study under the project was not carried far enough to affect the
provisions of this decree. The technical assistance on hotel planning was
provided by UJNPD/ILO in 1980, but with the delays in physical implementation
of the project, this assistance did not prove timely and had no impact on the
project.
Project Costs
3.05     Project costs in Turkish lira have been affected by domestic
inflation and the delays in project implementation. On the assumption that
the project can be completed by 1987 and that the rate of domestic inflation
will not accelerate, the project is estimated to cost TL 11,022 million as
compared with the appraisal estimate of TL 990 million (Annex III). The cost
estimate at appraisal excluding price contingencies was approximately TL 675
million. If this figure is compared dith the estimated cost at completion the
difference is more than accounted for by price inflation over the
implementation period, after adjusting for the marginal reductions effected in
the scope of the project. Project costs measured in dollars show a
substantial reduction as compared with the appraisal estimate. This reflects
principally the rapid devaluation of the Turkish lira, particularly since
1980, which has more than offset domestic inflation. Thus the project cost at
completion is estimated at almost US$43 million as compared with the appraisal
estimate of US$66 million (Annex III).
Disbursements
3.06     With the delays in loan effectiveness and project implementation,
disbursements from the Bank's loan were much slower than estimated at
appraisal. By the end of FY1980, less than US$3 million had been disbursed as
compared with the appraisal estimate of more than US$17 million (Annex IV).
Disbursements accelerated after 1980, but not sufficiently quickly to permit
full disbursement by the original loan closing date: December 31, 1982. The
closing date was postponed twice, the final date being December 31, 1984. At
the time of the second postponement of the closing date in January 1984, it
was realized that with the devaluation of the Turkish lira it would not be
possible to utilize the whole loan, and the Government requested that an
amount of US$3 million should be cancelled. Despite these measures and an
acceleration of project implementation, it still proved impossible to disburse
the whole of the reduced loan of US$23 million, and in the final outcome,
almost US$7.262 million was cancelled (including the US$3 million mentioned
above). In total, US$14.843 million was disbursed for expenditures on the
project with the balance of US$3.895 million being capitalized interest and
other charges during constructicn. Annex IV shows actual disbursements as
compared with disbursements as estimated at appraisal.



- 6 -
Procurement and Contractor's Performance
3.07     Despite efforts made to contract overseas civil works bidders, all
the work was carried out by local firms, and no contracts were awarded to
foreign firms. With one exception (para. 3.08), the local contractors
performed well though they frequently had to slow down due to shortage of
local counterpart funds.
.7.08    The contractor building the Hotel Training School, adjoining practice
hotel and the Municipality Building made a slow start, encountered
difficulties and finally abandoned the work. This caused a year's delay.
Subsequently a much larger package involving the Tourism Bank Hotel, Training
Hotel, Marina Superstructure and Promenade was bidded and awarded in December
1983 to one of the largest construction firms in Turkey. Since that time
progress, though hampered by shortage of local currency, has been satisfactory.
3.09     All the equipment bids pro^2eeded expeditiously and satisfactorily.
Performance of Consultants
3.10     The Ministry of Tourism appointed the Tourism Bank to act as
consultants for those aspects of the work not directly the responsibility of
Government line agencies (i.e., for work other than Highways, Kepez and PTT).
3.11     The Tourism Bank's consultancy group performed well in all aspects
except in its relationship with the Project Directorate. Unfortunately, the
Chief Consultant and Project Director frequently had diverging views on
implementation though each of them had the success of the project as their
overall priority. It is to the credit of both officials that despite
differences of approach and project difficulties, they managed to achieve so
much. The Tourism Bank was successful in developing a group of pro.essionals
capable of building and operating tourism infrastructure built to
international standards. The consulting group visibly grew in stature,
.apability and confidence during the course of the project and it will be most
unfortunate if the unit is disbanded at the conclusion of the project.
Reporting
3.12     Progress reports were prepared by the borrower rather intermittently,
but they provided useful information on project implementation, commitments
and expenditures. For a more comprehensive view of project status, major
reliance was placed on IDA supervision mission findings. Audit reports have
been received after considerable delays.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01     The operating performance of a project like the South Antalya Tourism
Infrastructure Project is not simple to measure. The basic objective of the
project was to provide the basis for an orderly development of tourism
facilities to attract additional foreign tourists to Turkey and augment
foreign exchange earnings, and to provide additional capacities for domestic
tourism.



4.02     Despite the delays in project implementation: the provision of new
tourist accommodation capacity is proceeding well. Private investors, with
the support of the Tourism Bank, have moved rapidly in the past three years to
construct tourist facilities including hotels, holiday villages and
condominiums. The Tourism Bank is developing a new high category hotel
overlooking the marina in Kemer and the Tourism Bank together with other
Government agencies have added substantial capacity in new camp sites. The
greater part of these investments is promoted by domestic private investors,
though with financial support from the Tourism Bank. Only the marina hotel,
the school hotel and two camp sites are being financed wholly by the public
sector. Accommodations with approximately 3,300 beds are already in
operation, construction is underway on projects with a further 2,800 beds, and
construction is about to begin on projects with a further 1,400 beds. The
demand for the remaining available sites is high, and there appear good
prospects of achieving the target of 12,000 beds, described in the appraisal
report, by 1990 or soon thereafter.
4.03     While the objective of constructing capacity with 12,000 beds by the
early 1990's seems quite likely to be realized, there is a significant
difference between the categories of accommodation projected at appraisal and
those actually being provided. The appraisal foresaw 70% of beds in hotels
and the balance in holiday villages. In fact, in response to changing market
demand, it is now expected that 66% of capacity will be in holiday villages,
only 16% in hotels, and the balance in camp sites (Annex V).
4.04     The strength of the demand from private investors for hotel/vacation
village sites in the project area has been stimulated by the remarkable growth
in foreign tourism to Turkey in the past three years. After years of
stagnation and decline in foreign tourist arrivals during the second half of
the 1970's, there has been a period of renewed growth since 1980. The growth
rate has accelerated since 1982; arrivals increased by 162 in 1983 and by 302
in 1984. In the first five months of 1985, arrivals increased by 46.3% over
the corresponding months of 1984. The fast growth in traffic has meant
occupancy rates yielding favorable returns to investors in much existing
capacity and has stimulated strong interest in developing new capacity. The
Antalya Province has shared in this growth in tourism demand and investor
interest.
4.05     A development which was not foreseen at appraisal has been the
remarkable growth of the small town of Kemer. At appraisal it was envisaged
that the provision of infrastructure and housing for hotel employees would
make possible the development of Kemer as a service town for the hotels and
vacation villages to be built in the area. In fact Kemer has attracted large
private investments in vacation homes of a high standard, and property values
have risen to a point where the provision of employee housing in Kemer, unless
heavily subsidized, no longer appears feasible. As a consequence of its rapid
growth and the influx of higher income residents and vacationers, Kemer is
developing new commercial activities and is expected to fulfill part of its
envisaged role as a service center for the neighboring resort areas.
Nevertheless the problem of housing hotel employees remains and is becoming
more acute with the rapid growth of accommodation capacity. It will require
cooperation between the public authorities and private investors in finding
appropriate solutions to avoid the unauthorized development of slums with
their possible accompanying environmental degradation. In this context,



-8-
consideration should be given by the Government to providing serviced sites,
core units and construction loans, as a means of providing housing for
employees who are not accommodated by their employers or are unable to find
adequate rental units.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01     The financial performance of the project should be evaluated under
several heads: the financial returns to the Government from the provision of
infrastructure services for which financial charges are made (directly or
indirectly); the financial returns to investors in superstructures (hotels,
holiday villages, etc.); and the financial returns to private citizens
(e.g. property owners) who stand to benefit from the project. As the project
is not yet complete and superstructure investments are still under way,
definitive financial results could not be evaluated at this stage.
5.02     A draft statement of policy and criteria for establishing charges for
infrastructure services was prepared by the Ministry of Tourism in 1977. A
study of user charges proposed for utility networks was made in 1982. This
was revised and elaborated by the Tourism Bank in mid-1985. The new study
distinguishes in its analysis between investments in Kemer infrastructure
(roads, streets, water, sewerage, drainage, etc.), the marina, and social
housing, and calculates the financial returns on these three categories of
investment. The practice hotel (part of the hotel school) is included in the
first category; this might more appropriately be evaluated separately. While
at present, given the level of demand for services, the charges are not
sufficient to cover costs, on the basis of the assumptions made by the Tourism
Bank, with the build-up of visitor capacity the charges proposed for
infrastructure services would be adequate, and the NPV of the investments in
Kemer infrastructure, the practice hotel, and the marina are positive, using a
discount rate of 122 and an operating asset life of 20 years. The NPV of the
investment in social housing is negative, reflecting the subsidized rents paid
by the Government officials and other public sector staff to whom the housing
will be assigned. The charges actually made for infrastructure services will
need to be re-evaluated and adjusted in the light of the build-up of
accommodation capacity and the future growth of the town of Kemer.
5.03     The financial evaluation of the Tourism Bank includes in receipts to
the Government rents paid by hotel investors for sites leased by them. Annual
rents are set at 5% of the value of the land; the land value is set at 102 of
the hotel investment cost. The rents are low and are designed to provide an
incentive for hotel investors. Given the amenities provided by the project,
however, and the strength of demand for hotel sites by potential investors,
further examination of the basis for determining rents for hotel sites is
warranted. Such a study could be made in the context of a broader assessment
of ways for Government to recapture a greater share of the benefits of the
project which have accrued to the private sector (see para. 5.05).
5.04     As the new hotels and holiday villages are either still under
construction or were opened for their first season only in the spring of 1985,
definitive data on operating results are not yet available. Projections for
the practice hotel and the marina hotel at Kemer, to be built and operated by
the Tourism Bank, show highly satisfactory operating profits and a very



9-
favorable return on investment. Though many facilities will be open for only
six months in ea^h year (May to October), the preliminary results indicate
that high occupancies during this period combined with favorable operating
conditions (particularly in terms of low labor costs) would yield satisfactory
returns to private investors in hotels and holiday villages.
5.05     Still greater returns have already accrued to some private landowners
in the project area, particularly those owning land in the town of Kemer,
where there has been a very rapid developmnent of holiday homes and
condominiums. In 1978, land expropriation prices were set at TL 500 per
square meter, which was five times greater than the value estimated at
appraisal. By mid-1985, land values in Kemer had risen to TL 20,000 per
square meter and even higher in some locations. Hence, the Government's
investment in the project has greatly enriched some private citizens, and as
most of the land in Kemer was not acquired by the Government at project
inception, the Government has not been in a position to recover its investment
from the sale of land at the enhanced prices now prevailing. In retrospect,
it appears that it would have been desirable for Government to have acquired
additIonal land in Kemer to sell at developed values. As a necessary
alternat're, it is important that the Government enforces the collection of
charges (e.g., user charges, connection fees, property taxes) to enable it to
recoup its investment and earn an adequate return.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
6.01     At the time of project preparation and appraisal, it was recognized
that the complexity of the project would require special measures to ensure
the coordination of the implementation of the many different project
components. Primary responsibility for project implementation rested with the
Ministry of Tourism and Information, which was merged into the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism in 1983, and at the Bank's urging a Project Directorate
was established within the Ministry with responsibility for project
coordination. In addition, the Coordinating Committees, one at the central
government level in Ankara and the other at the regional level in Antalya,
were set up to assist the Project Directorate in its coordination role. These
components were helpful in project execution, though they did not work as well
as expected, partly because the Project Directorav lacked the legal authority
to require other agencies to perform according to agreed timetables or to
accelerate procedures such as those involved in land acquisition.
6.02     As indicated above, the Tourism Bank was appointed by the Ministry of
Tourism as engineering consultants for the project, and established a special
unit to carry out that part of the work which was not clearly the
responsibility of other agencies (e.g. the Grand Directorate of Highways, PTT,
Kepez, etc.). This unit in the Tourism Bank worked effectively and deserves
much credit for the successful implementation of the project. The
implementation of other components (e.g. the main highway, electric power, and
telecommunications components) was handled effectively by the responsible
agencies. The Project Directorate also, despite the constraints under which
it operated, has made an important contribution to project implementation.



- 10 -
6.03     In retrospect, the arrangements agreed between the government and the
Bank for project implementation appear to have been broadly appropriate,
though the powers and authority of the Coordinating Committee in Ankara seem
to have been insufficient to overcome emerging problems as expeditiously as
desirable. Experience with tourism projects in other countries has shown that
effective coordination of a number of independent executing agencies requires
a high-level coordinating body in the government structure, perhaps even at
the ministerial level.
6.04     An organizational question which has still to be settled is the
structure for operating and maintain4ng the tourism inDrastructure facilities,
particularly the water, sewerage, drainage, and solid waste removal services
in the project area. The Government envisages the creation of a municipality
in the town of Kemer, with the election by the citizens of local officials.
It is recognized that such a municipality would not be the appropriate body to
operate infrastructure services in the wider tourism zone, and a law has been
drafted providing for the creation of a special agency to do this. The
services are at present being operated and maintained by the Tourism Bank,
which is also collecting service charges, but the Bank lacks the legal
authority for this, and the imposition of service charges by the Bank has
already been legally challenged. Hence, it is important that the new
organizational units with the necessary legal authority to set tariffs and
collect service charges should be established expeditiously and be
appropriately staffed.
6.05     A further organizational matter to be addressed is the management of
the hotel school. The decision has been taken that the management of the
school together with the school hotel will be the responsibility of the
Tourism Bank. It was envisaged at appraisal that technical assistance in
setting up the hotel school and designing training programs would be provided
by ILO with UNDP support. In fact, ILO consultants have provided assistance
during project implementation (from 1980-82 and again in 1983 and 1984), but
with the long delay in constructing the hotel school, it was not possible to
integrate fully this assistance with the development of the training
facilities at Kemer. Construction of the hotel school complex is now expected
to be completed in 1986, and it is desirable that training programs should be
designed and key staff appointed prior to completion. The Ministry of Tourism
and the Tourism Bank are considering what further assistance would be needed
to establish the school, and both ILO and UNDP are willing in principle to
provide further assistance. The timing of such assistance should be
co-ordinated with the further progress of construction and the appointment of
the key Turkish staff of the school and the school hotel.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01     Since the Bank-supported project is not yet complete and
superstructure facilities have either just begun operating or are still to be
built, the re-evaluation has to be based largely on revised estimates rather
than actual performance. The methodology for the re-evaluation is similar to
that of the appraisal report. Benefits are tourist expenditures in the
project area of visitors staying in the accommodation facilities (hotels,
holiday villages, camping sites) supported by the project. The relevant costs
are the capital and operating costs of the infrastructure provided under the



- 11 -
project and of the related superstructure facilities. Operating costs of
infrastructure services are reflected in the prices paid for these services by
hotels and holiday villages. These costs are, therefore, included in the
analysis in the operating costs of superstructures. Certain of the project
facilities have and will continue to generate benefits for the local
population. Following the methodology of the appraisal report, only the
benefits flowing from social housing have been taken into account in the
economic re-evaluation. Recorded investment and operating costs are assumed
to reflect economic costs, while benefits flowing from tourist expenditures
are assumed to be incremental. This assumption appears justified by the fast
growth of foreign tourism to Turkey in the last three years and the shortage
of accommodation capacity.
7.02     These assumptions yield a base ERR of 10.52, which compares with the
SAR estimate of 17.2%. The main factors accounting for this difference are:
(a) a construction period with negative net benefit flows much longer
than projected at appraisal;
(b) a real price (expenditure) per visitor day in hotels and holiday
villages 35% below that assumed at appraisal.
These factors more than offset the impact on the rate of return of the lower
investment cost of the project as compared with the cost estimated at
appraisal (Annex V).
7.03     In the appraisal, residual values for certain assets, namely
superstructures, land and social housing were estimated and included in the
economic evaluation. Because of the uncertainties attaching to such
estimates, residual values have not been taken into account in calculating the
ERR of 10.5%. If, however, residual values, estimated on approximately the
same basis as at appraisal, are included, the ERR marginally improves to 10.8%.
7.04     The ERR as calculated above is conservative as the benefits of the
project to the local population (except for social housing) have not been
included. These benefits derive from different sources including improved
infrastructure services (water, sewerage, electricity, solid waste removal)
increased amenities (health clinic, public parks, etc.) and increased land
values. As indicated in para. 5.05, the latter are substantial, though they
are apparently very unevenly distributed. Were these benefits to be included
in the economic evaluation, the ERR would bz substantially higher than that
shown above.
7.05     The appraisal estimated the employment to be generated by the project
as well as the net increase in foreign exchange earnings. Because of the
somewhat slower build-up of accommodation capacity and the differences in
types of accommodation being provided as compared with those foreseen at
appraisal, the number of jobs now expected to be created (7,300 in 1990) is
lower than projected at appraisal (12,400). With the fast growth of the town
of Kemer, however, the number of jobs in construction is likely to have been
substantially greater than projected at appraisal (which estimated an average
of 1,000 over the years 1976-89), though quantitative data are lacking. Net
foreign exchange earnings from the project (at 1985 prices) are now projected
at about US$22 million in 1990 rising slowly thereafter. The appraisal



- 12 -
projected net foreign exchange earnings of US$28 million in 1990 at 1975
prices. The reduction in real terms in estimated foreign exchange earnings
reflects the slower build-up of capacity, a lower proportion of foreign
guest-nights (631 compared with 80% estimated at appraisal) and lower real
expenditures per visitor day (cf. para. 7.02).
VIII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
8.01     By providing financial support and technical inputs at different
stages of project preparation and implementation, the Bank appears to have
made a major contribution to realizing a project concept which is recognized
by the Turkish authorities as unique in Turkey and one which sets the pattern
for the future development of new tourist resort areas. Development on the
basis of careful physical planning, with due regard to environmental
safeguards, and of the simultaneous provision of all infrastructure services
needed for the creation of a new resort had not occurred in Turkey prior to
the project.
8.02     The initial delays in project execution reflected a variety of
political, legal and economic factors in Turkey about which the Bank could do
little. However, the Bank at appraisal appears to have been insufficiently
aware of the administrative difficulties relating to land acquisition and of
the time required to complete them. Delays in land acquisition have seriously
delayed project execution and completion. Had the difficulties resulting from
this factor been fully appreciated prior to appraisal, it is possible that
another site where Government already owned the land might have been chosen as
the project site.
8.03     The project concept appears in retrospect to have been appropriate
and designs were modified where necessary without any basic changes in project
scope. The project was not over-ambitious and despite the delays and some
organizational problems, was within the borrower's capacity to implement it.
In hindsight, the Bank could have given more attention during preparation and
appraisal to the organisational arrangements for operating and monitoring
project facilities; appropriate cost recovery policies; and housing
arrangements for staff in the project area. The Bank's supervision missions
contributed to the resolution of problems as they arose and the value of these
contributions was recognized by the borrower. There were, nevertheless,
extended intervals between supervision missions in some years, which appear to
have reflected organizational changes within the Bank (e.g. the closing of the
Tourism Projects Department in mid-1979), changing priorities and staff
constraints. There were several discontinuities in the staffing of
supervision missions, but during the most critical years of project
implementation, the coverage of supervision missions was comprehensive and
detailed. As the project neared completion, the intensity of the supervision
effort declined.



- 13 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01     While the project is nearing completion and the prospects for the
development of hotels, holiday villages and other tourist facilities appear
highly favorable, a final evaluation of the outcome of the project is not
possible at this time. Nevertheless, the basic project concept was sound and
the project objectives were realistic. The planning and environmental
standards and regulations are appropriate though minor modifications may be
required. The basis has been laid for deve'oping an attractive resort in a
natural setting of exceptional beauty, catering to the needs of a wide
spectrum of the tourist vacation markets. In this context, the continued
enforcement of planning and environmental regulations to preserve the
amenities of the area is vital to ensure the future of the project. It is
important that funds be provided promptly to enable the project to be
completed so that project benefits can be realized more fully with a minimum
of further delay. It is also important that arrangements be made to ensure
the efficient operation and maintenance of infrastructure services, and that
attention be given to the problem of housing hotel staff. Although this
aspect was addressed in the design of the project, it has been largely
overlooked in project execution and a solution is now becoming increasingly
urgent.
9.02     The project has provided a model of an integrated resort development
which the Turkish authorities are following in developing similar coastal
resorts at other locations. This was the first time in Turkey that all
infrastructure services needed for resort development were planned and
executed more or less simultaneously in the context of a carefully studied
physical plan. In developing new projects, it is important that the
experience gained by the tourism authorities, particularly in the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism and the Tourism Bank, in the design and execution of the
project should not be lost; conscious steps should be taken to enable this
valuable experience to be utilized in developing similar projects in Turkey in
the future.



- 14 -
ANNE\ I
TURKEY: SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRTJCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
FOREIGN VISITOR ARRIVALS: 1963-1985 /a
Year                          Arrivals ('000)            Variation (%)
1963                                198.8                      -
1964                                229.3                     15.3
1965                                361.8                     57.8
1966                                440.4                     21.7
1967                                574.1                     30.4
1968                                603.0                      5.0
1969                                694.2                     15.1
1970                                724.8                      4.4
1971                                926.0                     27.8
1972                              1,035.0                     11.6
1973                              1,341.5                     29.6
1974                              1,110.3                    (17.2)
1975                              1,540.9                     38.8
1976                              1,675.8                      8.8
1977                              1,661.4                     (0.9)
1978                              1,664.2                      0.2
1979                              1,523.7                     (8.4)
1980                              1,288.0                    (15.5)
1981                              1,405.3                      8.9
1982                              1,391.7                    (-1.0)
1983                              1,625.1                     16.8
1984                              2,117.1                     30.3
1984 (Jan.-May)                     551.4                      _
1985 (Jan.-May)                     806.8                     46.3
/a   Data from State Institute of Statistic until 1971 and from the
General Directorate of Security - Section VI thereafter.



- 15 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION: ACTUAL AND EXPECTED
1.       The project was appraised on the basis of 1:25,000 scale plans and
the level of engineering and cost estimates reflected the detail which could
be considered at sucn an overall scale. As a result, a lot of survey and
detailed engineering work was required before bidding documents could be
prepared. This caused delays which were not fully appreciated at appraisal.
2.       There were considerable delays in meeting the conditions for
effectiveness and even though the loan was signed on July 9, 1976 it only
became effective on March 1, 1978. The delay was caused mainly by
difficulties in establishing the Project Directorate. Despite the
difficulties, the Government pushed ahead with designs and construction by its
line agencies (Highways Directorate and Kepez) and appointed the Tourism Bank
to act as engineering consultants for the other infrastructure and building
superstructures. Even when the designs were finished, there were further
delays, mainly due to land organization problems. The result was that apart
from the extension of the urban highway and 31.5 km electric power
transmission line from Antalya to the project area, there was little
construction activity on the actual tourism sites until 1981. Towards the end
of 1980, progress was so unsatisfactory that the World Bank rated the project
a real problem project and there was consideration given to cancelling the
loan. Even when contracts were let the lack of local funds delayed progress.
3.       Nineteen-eighty-one, however, became a turning point, the Tourism
Bank designs were ready for bidding; a new Director was appointed and adequate
local counterpart funds became available. Physical progress speeded up and
the World Bank agreed to extend the loan period from December 3, 1982 to
December 8, 1983.  A revised action program was wLreed and following further
progress on this (albeit delayed by land acquisitiou), a further extension to
December 31, 1984 was agreed by the Bank. At the same zime, the Bank
cancelled US$3 million from the loan and agreed to increase the disbursement
percentage for civil works from 30 to 50 percent.
4.       The discrepancies between forecast and actual project implementation
schedules can be seen on the attached diagram.



tKPLuNKN?TATtOV SCHEDULE                                      PO  r C A S T AT AP P R A I S AL                     COMPARED TO ACTUAL Pet"RN3ANCI
77  78  79 80  S1  82  83  84  85  86  87
Declare Loon Effecttve                x  x
Port A of the Preiect
axx xxx xxx
lofreatrecture water Supply Construction                      ---   --- --
xx xxx xtxX xxx gxxx
So11 Craft NFrbour                                 -  - - - 
Sewerage System __                                          =-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
I xxx xx: ax: xxx xxx
Kemer Iafrcstructure-
xxx x
Electricity Supply (distribution)_ _        _        __      _ _      _     _    _
Xs, I
Superstrecturo Kaeser ealth Center
Uunicipelity Bldg_        _       __               __                _
x xxa xxx uxx
Potel Tratinig Centre
Mtarnas Superstructure                                                                    REV?    xxx as envisaged at appraisal
x xx   xx xxx xxx x a                                          as envisaged at contract award
actual tAplementation schedule
Employee Bousingt"$_________
Part * of the Project
xx xxx xxx xxx
Fert C of the Project
x xxx
Electricity Supply ("ain Peedre)   - --
Peat * af tbe Project
ax xa: xxx xxx xxx
Teleco.munications                                     -- --- --- --- -
Part * of t%e Project
Sx xxx Its axs  xxx %xa
national Park Program                          - --
PatPof the Project
ax xs xxx xxx xxx :xx
Pbaeuil Is Archeological Site                           - --- -    --- ---                     
Part C of the Prolect                                           r x
Undeorater Research at Phaseil -1



- 17 -
AMEXII
Page 1
tUhlY S,OUTH ANTALYA TOURISA  INFRA T TUTURK ,PmpECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
O&IEetC COSTt ACtUAL AMO EXPECTEO
|S   Far   Tow lt | Total                      |          |    Tn       | 
---- TL million ---------------------- USS mIlion  ---------______
hAUl5                       96.4        150         600          750          6.43        4.84         0.97        5.81
IARIMUR                     81.3        667           90         7S7          5.42        3.78         0.15         3.93
MAtINA SUP!OStRUCtIRE                   360           50         410                      0.79         0.08        0.87.
WATER SUPPLY
(1) Tourism Bank    )               213                       213        )            2.38                      2.38
86.5                                              3.77
(ii) 0ST              )               60           60          120        )            0.89         0.10         0.99
5IsBAM                      36.9        523                      523          2.46        2.24                     2.24
IALILMASTE                   9.0         27                       27          0.60        0.17                     0.17
(1) Kepez            )            1,215                     1,215                     5.12                      5.12
70.1
,i1) Other            )              3S8          100          458          4.67        0.80        0.20         1.00
IItLECDEMUZIC_TlDS    |   49.S         S15          200          715          3.30        1.39        0.31         1.70
UTL.XMhMIMAI           !   54.2       s55          200          755          3.61        1.32         0.40         1.72
KDiR LUFRASTRUCTUR;W9      114.6                                              7.64
(1) Health Clinic                   107                       107                     0.37                      0.37
(ii) Infrastructure                  198          965        1.163                     0.85         1.38         2.23
(i11) Promenade                       260          250          510                     0.62         0.50         1.12
EMPLOYEE HOUSING           133.7        134       1,100        1,234          8.91        0.26         1.67        1.93
TIONAL PAMUS                93.1        173                      173          6.21        1.04                     1.04
flARSE-LIS                  17.4        97                        97          1.16        0.41                     0.41
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION    20.7          177                      177          1.31        0.58                     O.58
PEOFESSIONAL SERVICES       67.5        145          60          205          4.50        0.63         0.10        0.73
iLhIIl        ,89.0                    664          750        1,414          S.93        7.41         1.21        8.62
j-    ~4 425                _120                        njlZP                    42A6



- 18 -
UIIX tIII
Page 2
TURKEY SQUTH ANTALYA TOUnIaN tMAsYaUeTUQ PIO.iCT
(Loan 1310-TU)
PROJECI COSTS I#k USS
Z6                           AR      Al     u       Al     Al      u      AG      AZ
SntAD1                      1.33   1.10   0.98   1.43                                                 0.83   0.14       S.81
HA&RIIQ;L                                                0.49   1.68   0.96   0.33   0.06   0.26   0.15                3.93
_INA SUPERSTLICTURE                                                                    0.40   0.39   0.08               0.87
WATER SUPPLY
Tourism Bank                                 1.20   0.S9   0.47            0.02   0.10                             2.38
oSt                                          0.53   0.28   0.08                                   0.10             0."
1S.    L ERAGE                                         l0.14   1.11   0.64   0.35                                      2.24
SoLz LMSH E                                                      0.08   0.08   0.01                                    0.17
ILECTRICITY
Kepel                                               0.11   1.06   2.03   0.46   1.46                              S.12
Other                                                                             0.4S   O.SS                     1.00
TILECOMUZI -lD                                                        0.12   0.40   0.49   0.38   0.17   0.14         1.70
HOTEL BAImiN6                                                           0.32   0.01   0.43   0.63   0.33                1.72
KEMER INtRASTRUCTURE
Health Clinic                                              0.01   0.11   0.11   0.12   0.02                       0.37
Infrastructure                                             0.23   0.03   0.19   0.20   0.20   0.67   0.71         2.23
Promenade                                                                 0.23   0.2S   0.39   0.25               1.12
INPLOYV.E HOUSING                                                                              0.26   0.67   1.00      1.93
NATIOt1AL PARKS                                   0.43           0.04   0.2S   0.18   0.13   0.01                       1.04
PHAESg,LIs                                                              0.20   0.17   0.02   0.02                       0.41
PROJECT AOMINISTRATION                          j                0.01   0.19   0.11   0.24   0.03                      0.58
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                           | 0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.07   0.03         0.73
2.10   2.18 j 1.06   0 0.36   0.32           1.17   0.02   0.20   1.00   0.21       8.62
IUIAL             31   LU       3.16 KZAIILZ 4-74      4.21    L4S   "JZ  IX LII 41U    4A           .       42- M



- 19 -
Page 3
TURKEY SOUTH AHTALYA TOuiI!S  INFRAS1tUChtL- PROJgCt
(Loan 1310-tU)
PROJEDt tOSTS IN IL
ZA     Z?      Z1     za      Al     11     U       U a      i     U      Aa      AZ
ROAOS                        20    27.5   35.3   67.0                                                 500.0  100      749.8
HURIIIR                                                   44.0  212.0  172.0   84.0   24.8   130.4   90.0             757.2
fARtHA SUPERSTRUCtURE                                                                  160.0   200.0   50.0           410.0
ICRL SUPPLY
Tourim Bank                                  56.4   52.6   59.0            5.0   40.0                            213.0
OSt                                           25.0   25.0   10.0                                   60.0           120.0
b|^|                                                           18.0  200.0  165.0  140.0                            $23.0
iUID WA.TI                                                      10.7   13.9    2.0                                    26.6
Kepez (Part C)                                      9.8   134.0  364.5  116.5  590.0                           1,214.8
Other (Part A)                                                                   180.0  278.0                    458.0
i3ttL 1[mUilZ l                                                       21.0  103.0  19.0  19S.0  100.0  100.0    715.0
a     RimAzI_ 5                                                        58.0    1.6  174.0  322.0  200.0              755.6
Health Clinic                                                1.8   19.5   27.1   49.7    8.8                     106.9
Infrastructure                                             28.8    4.7   48.9   80.1  100.0  400.0  500.0  1,162.5
Promenade                                                                 60.0  100.0  200.0  1SO0.              510.0
!MPLOYEE HOUSING                                                                              134.0  400.0  700.0  1,234.0
NATONAL Emu                                       20.0            4.5   44.2   45.0   54.2    5.1                     173.0
PH1ILIS                                                J                36.3   43.6    8.5    8.5                      96.9
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                 j          1.4   34.9   29.4   97.8   13.0                     176.S
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                              4.2    8.0   11.3   16.2   23.0   36.3   45.9   40.0   20.0    204.9
LAI 52.4   78.3   50.0   32.0   40.0                                         1299.7    8.6  103.0  600.0  150.0  1,414.0
_&    _aa  ILI    '22k I    I.  I 1LI              -LZ I1- -2A 11kJ 174Z  2      -0h 1I70.t IIA2LZ



- 20 -
ANNEX IV
TURKEY: SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Accumulated Disbursements in US$'O00
(As of July 31, 1985)
(1)              (1)                   Actual
Actual                                Disbursement
Fiscal Year           Amount           Appraisal         as 2 of Appraisal
and Semester        Disbursed          Estimate               Estimate
FY 1978, S.1.             -                769                     -
S.2.          811              2,556                     32
FY 1979, S.1.         L1,055             5,442                    19
S.2.        1,900              9,262                     20
FY 1980, S.1.         2,576             13,081                    20
S.2.        2,869             17,334                     17
FY 1981, S.o.         3,460             20,705                    17
S.2.        4,870             23,030                     21
FY 1982, S.1.         5,930             24,781                    24
S.2.        8,300             25,563                     32
FY 1983, S.1.        10,100             26,000                    39
S.2.       11,100                                       43
FY 1984, S.o.        12,010                                       46
S.2.       14,870                                       57
FY 1985, S.1.        16,450                                       63
S.2.       17,880                                       69
July 31, 1985        18,738                                       72
Oct. 1985



- 21 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1310-TU)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.       The build-up of accommodation capacity in the project area through
1990, based on facilities already operating, under construction or in an
advanced planning stage, is projected as follows:.'
Number of Beds
Hotels              Holiday       Camp
Category A    Categories B & C    Villages       Sites     Total
1985           -                 300            1,450        500      2,250
1986          126                300           1,450         500      2,376
1987          126                550           3,260       1,100      5,036
1988          676                650           4,960       1,100      7,386
1989          676                750           6,100       1,700      9,226
1990          676                800           6,100       1,700      9,276
2.       On this basis, the distribution of various categories of
accommodation in 1990 would be: A category hotels - 7.3 percent, B & C
category hotels - 8.6 percent; holiday villages - 65.8 percent; camp sites -
18.3 percent. This is in marked contrast to the projection of capacity at
appraisal, which envisaged the following distribution: A category hotels -
16.4 percent, B & C category hotels - 53 percent; holiday villages - 30.7
percent; camp sites - 0 percent.
3.       The changes in the types of visitor accommodation being developed
from those projected at appraisal are reflected in a lower average real daily
expenditure per tourist, which was estimated at appraisal, at US$19.35
equivalent, including sales tax, at 1975 prices. Dollar prices have
approximately doubled in the past decade (measured by the U.S. consumer price
index) which would imply an average daily expenditure per visitor in 1985 of
about US$38.70 equivalent. Based on the prices charged presently in hotels,
holiday villages and camp sites and the prices projected for the higher
category hotels now under construction, the weighted average daily expenditure
for accommodation and meals in all types of accommodation is now calculated at
US$25.30 equivalent, including sales taxes, i.e., nearly 35 percent below the
appraisal estimate.
1/ excluding 1,050 beds presently in operation which either antedated the
project or were developed independently of the project.



- 22 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
4.       The principal expenditures of visitors outside the hotels/holiday
villages are for excursions, shopping, meals and entertainment. With the
preponderance of development in vacation villages, which aim to provide all
entertainment and sporting facilities within the complex, the major
expenditures outside the hotels/holiday villages are likely to be for
excursions and shopping. Most foreign visitors currently take excursions to
historic sites in Antalya province, and some visit more distant destinations
including Istanbul. Data on expenditures on excursions and shopping are
limited, but from information collected from travel agencies and hotels, it
appears that the average daily expenditure per tourist is significantly below
the estimates of the appraisal report. The average daily expenditure is
currently estimated at US$7.0 (US$7.70 including sales tax). In real terms,
this is approximately one-half the estimate made at appraisal, and again
appears to reflect in part the change in the nature of the visitor
accommodations being provided as compared with the expectations at appraisal.
However, the current estimate of visitor expenditures outside hotels/holiday
villages may be over-conservative, and it would be worthwhile for the Turkish
tourism authorities to examine this matter in greater detail.
5.       Projections of investments in hotels are derived from the costs of
holiday villages opened within the past year and those presently under
construction. The investment costs of the hotel school and the marina hotel
in Kemer were provided by the Tourism Bank. Investment costs of new "B" and
"C" category hotels were estimated on the basis of the costs of vacation
villages and the new "A" category hotel projects.
6.       Operating cost projections and projections of operating profits were
derived from data relating to vacation villages already in operation, to
projections for higher category hotels provided by the Tourism Bank, and data
obtained from existing hotels and camp sites in the region. The ratios of
operating costs and operating profits on expenditures by tourists on
excursions and shopping were taken from the appraisal report; these ratios
appear reasonable. On the basis of these assumptions and data provided by the
Tourism Bank for social housing and the operations of the Kemer marina,
projections of investment costs, operating profits and net benefits are shown
in the attached table. The economic rate of return on this basis is 10.5
percent.
Employment Effects
7.       Data on employment in holiday villages and hotels already in
operation provide the basis for estimating employment in accommodation
facilities by 1990 when the 9,300 beds shown in para. 1 are expected to be in
operation. The supporting services and facilities such as the marina,
nightclubs, restaurants (outside hotels) and excursions are still only partly
developed and definitive data on employment are not yet available.
Nevertheless, the ratios of employment in accommodation facilities to
employment in related activities and to indirect employment given in the
appraisal report appear reasonable and have been used to estimate employment
created by the project in 1990. Using these ratios, the 1990 employment in
accommodation facilities is estimated at 3,000, while employment in related
facilities and indirect employment are estimated at 1,200 and 3,100
respectively. Thus, the project is expected to generate about 7,300 jobs by
1990. A large part of the total will, however, be seasonal employment because



- 23 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
much of the accommodation capacity (in holiday villages and camp sites) will
be open for only about half the year, and it is reasonable to assume that much
of the employment in related services and facilities will also be seasonal.
This was not explicitlv recognized in the appraisal, which estimated the
creation of 12,600 petaanent jobs by 1991. The smaller number now estimated
largely reflects the change in types of accommodation with fewer beds in
hotels and more in holiday villages and camp grounds. The revised estimate
does not take into account, however, employment created by the rapid
development of holiday homes and condominiums which was not foreseen at
appraisal. No data on employment in these facilities are available. Another
source of considerable employment has been construction which was described in
the appraisal. The appraisal did not foresee, however, the fast growth in the
town of Kemer which has clearly generated many more jobs than forecast at that
time, though again quantitative data are lacking.
Balance of Payment Effects
8.       Based on the US dollar prices of 1985, the projection of visitor
capacity shown in para. 1, and reasonable assumptions about foreign and
domestic tourist traffic (with foreign visitors accounting for 80% of
bed-nights in holiday villages - comparable with experience in the 1985 season
- for 75X in A category hotels, 25% in lower category hotels and 202 in camp
sites), gross foreign exchange teceipts generated by the project (excluding
receipts of Turkish air carriers and other transportation) are estimated at
US$31 million in 1990. The appraisal report analysed the import component of
operating costs of accommodation (hotels, holiday villages, etc.) and of other
goods and services consumed by tourists (excursions, shopping, restaurants,
etc.) (Report No. 1051-TU: Annex XI; Appendix 3). These ratios appear
reasonable overall, though some components appear to be on the high side in
the light of experience to date while others appear rather low. Using the
same ratios, the import component of operating costs is estimated at US$4
millioa in 1990. The appraisal report assumed that 20% of the capital
invested in tourist accommodation would be from abroad. This again appears on
the high side in the light of experience to date. Until the financing of
ongoing projects and those in an advanced planning stage is finalized,
however, and the prospects for the Tourism Bank being able to raise loans from
abroad are clearer, there is no firm basis to change this ratio. The
assumptions of the appraisal report about the terms on which foreign capital
could be obtained appear optimistic in retrospect. Substituting a five-year
repayment period on loan capital for the ten-year of the appraisal, and an
interest rate of 101 for the 8Z of the appraisal, the annual service charges
on foreign capital invested in accommodation facilities would reach a peak of
US$3.95 million in 1991 and decline fairly rapidly to US$1.8 million by 1995.
Service on the World Bank's loan would approximate US$2.1 million annually
over this period. Hence, the net foreign exchange receipts from the project
(in 1985 prices) would approximate US$22.3 million in 1990, drop to US$21
million in 1991 and then rise gradually to US$23.1 million in 1995. The
appraisal's estimate of net receipts was US$28.3 million in 1990 rising to
US$29.5 million in 1995 at 1975 prices. The substantial reduction in
estimated net foreign exchange receipts reflects the lower projection of
capacity increases and the lower real daily expenditure of foreign visitors
referred to in paras. 3 and 4 above.



TURKEY: SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM PROJECT: PROJECT CoMPLETIOm REPo0T
(Loan No. 1310-TU)
Cost and Benefit Streams
(USS Millions 1985 prices)
Superstructure Oevelonment  __                                    _        Infastructure Develonment
Gross                                                 Social        Rental Income       Income         Net
Investment   Replacement   Operating                Land         Infrastructure      Housing         from Social        from        Benefit
Costs        Costs 1/       Profit 1/          Acfuisition       Investments       Investmen5      HousAnU   Z/.     Farina LI    St.r0P
1976           -              -              -                                     1.22              -               -               -          (-1.22)
1977          -               -              -                  2.55              1.34               -               _               _          (-3.89)
1978           -              -              -                  2.65               1.20              -               -               -          (-3.85)
1979           -              -              -                  0.99              3.37               -               -               -          (-4.36)
1980           -              -              -                  0.31               1.37              -               _               -          (-1.68)
1981          1.52            -              -                  0.27               3.37              -               -               _          (-5.16)
1982          1.75            -              -                   -                5.29               -               -               -          (-7.04)
1983         7.60             -             0.50                1.26               3.18              -               -               -         (-11.54)
1984         8.28             -             0.60                0.02              5.46               -               -               -         (-13.16)
1985         10.50           0.10           4.35                0.20              2.97              0.26             -              0.10        (-9.58)
1986         16.00           0.10           5.25                1.00              2.65              0.67             -              0.50       (-14.67)
1987         18.00           0.10           9.90                0.21               1.02             1.00            0.06            0.50        (-9.87)
1988         14.50           0.10          14.60                 -                  -                -              0.08            0.50          0.58
1989         6.00            0.20          18.40                 -                                   -              0.09            0.50         12.79
1990         4.00            0.20          19.00                 -                                   -              0.09            0.50         15.39
1991           -             0.50          20.00                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         20.09
1992           -             0.60          20.60                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         20.59
1993           -   .         0.80          20.70                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         20.49
1994           -             1.00          20.70                                   -                 -              0.09            0.50         20.29
1995           -             1.20         20.70                  -                 -                 -              0.09            0.50         20.09
1996           -             1.40          20.70                 -                 -                 -              0.09            0.50         19.89
1997           -             1.60          20.70                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         19.69
1998          -              1.80         20.70                  -                 -                 -              0.09            0.50         19.49
1999           -             2.00         20.70                  -                 -                 -              0.09            0.50         19.29
2000           -             2.00          20.70                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         19.29
2001           -             2.20          20.70                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         19.09
2002           -             2.20          20.70                 -                  -                -              0.09            0.50         19.09
2003           -             2.40          20.70                           -                -                       0.09            0.50         18.89
2004           -             2.40          20.70                 -                  --                              0.09            0.50         18.89
2005           -             2.40          20.70                 -                  --                              0.09            0.50         18.89
I/ Mission estimates.                                                                                                                                       lQ
Z/ Tourism Bank projections.                                                                                                                                Jm4
0



- 25 -
ANNX VI
Page 1 of 3
ZC2C II1IT3602 J090139
OEDtD3
REF t TCP FCA
JUSO159 JPY639 IN 13/10357 OUT 13/11303
42304 KUM TR
T E L E X
14-PLAN#.S.HD.237/D*B.1496                 13TH AUGUST 1986
EMENA -R-INTDAFRAD
WASHINGTON DC-tSA
ATT4.OS MR.DRIAN SHIELDS
RE? PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON TURKEY SOUTH ANTALYA TOURISM
PROJECT (LOAN 1310-TU)
OUR COMMENIS REOARDING YOUR REPORT ENCLOSED TO YOUR LETTER
BATED JULY VP 1986 ARE AS FOLLOJWS*
AAA) FOR PARAORAPH 2.02.. GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HNIHWAYS
DOES NOT HAVE ANY ROAD CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY IN ITS
PROGRAMS FOR "IHE NEW COASIAL ROAD SOUTH F RON ANTALYA",
333) FOR PARAGRAPH 2.05*. THE CONSTRUCTION OF ANTALY*-KEMER-
TEKIROVA ROAD WHICH IS UNDER OUR RESPONSIBLITY. WAS
COMPLETED AND A STANDARD HIGHWAY CONNECTION H" SEEN
PROVIDED BETWEEN ANTALYA AND THE PROJECI AREA.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF ACCESS ROADS TO THE TOURISM
SITES WAS ALREADY COMPLEED A0ND THE ROADS WILL DE
PAVED AT THE END OF 1986 CONSTRUCT ION SEASON ACCORDtIN
TO THE PROTOCOL AGREED'WITH MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND
TOURISM. ALSO, IT HAS BEEN PROPOSED THAT THE ACCESS
ROADS TO TEKIROVA AND BELDIDI TO 3E CONSIDERED IN
OUR 1987 INVESTMENT PROGRAM.
CCC) FOR PARAGRAPH 3.02.. MAIN ACCESS ROAD TO KENER FROM
ANTALYA-FINIKE HISNWAY IS ALSO CONSIDERED WITHIN THE
PROlOCOL AND WILL BE CONPLETED THIS YEAR.
RESARDSP
3EFUTV eiMERL MREutmR
SW BEHALF OF
SENERAL DIRECTOR
*00131207



- 26 -
MU VI
Page 2 of 3
EMBASSY OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF COUNSELOR FOR ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
2523 Masschuset Avnus, N.W., Washington, D.C. 2
gm) 4"4=
31.12.46115                                                   TELEX
W04i43 YUFNUR
August 6, 1986
Mr. J. Chaffey
Division Chief, CP II
Emena/IBRD
Washington, DC
Refs South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure Project
Loan No. 1310-TU
I appreciate the Bank*s efforts in preparing the Compietion
Report on abovementioned project.
Overall, the report has been found satisfactory by the
relevant agencies in Turkey however, I would like to convey
my authorities comments on some of the main issues specified in
the report.                                     0
a) The project has greatly contributed to the tourism
development in the south Antalya region. State Planning Organization
(SPO) attached great importance on the subject project and also
applied special monitoring process.
b) According to SPO, bhe delay in the project implementation
was related to lengthy legal procedures in land acquisition and
the difficulty in financing the local cost of the project.
c) Council of Ministers Decree No. 8292 dated June 5, 1984
on the strategy and objectives of the fifth Five Year Plan,
emphasized the necessity in preparing new infrastructure projects
similar to South Antalya Project and in encouraging the formulation
of necessary means for the participation of the foreign investments
areas.
d) Section 3.04 of the Completion Report states the
problems in connection with the housing requirements for the
employees in the region. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has
commented to the effect that allocation of necessary lands for
housing is well underway within the framework of ongoing revision
of land approptiation plan.
AUt 14 19i.



- 27 -
ANNA VI
Page 2 of 3
T.C. TURIZM BANKASI A.$.
CHMMAN
Mr.Brian Shields
Chief
The World Bank
Energy, Infrastructure, and
Urban Developmert
Operations Evaluation Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433                               Ankara, 8.8.1986
U.S.A.
Re:Project Completion Report On Turkey-South Antalya Tourism Project (Loan 1310-tu)
Dear Mr.Shields,
I have personally studied the PCR and together with my colleagues at Turizm
Bankas, found it satisfactory.
On this occasion I would like to thank the World Bank and each member in the
delegated team for the valuable contribution to realize the development of
this project which becomes an impressive model for the development of similar
projects in Turkey.
kindest regards,
Yours sincerely
'""Serhan ALTINORDU



