CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1310-TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 9, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A, B, E, F and G of the Project will be carried
out by the Borrower through its Ministry of Tourism and Information,
and its other departments and agencies;
(C) The construction and installation of the Power facili-
ties to be carried out under Part C of the Project will be carried
out by Kepez ve Antalya Havalisi Elektrik Santrallari T.A.S. (here-
inafter called Kepez), established and operating under the Laws
of the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 4/5743 dated
August 23, 1955 with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Kepez a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(D) The construction and installation of the Telecommunica-
tion facilities to be carried out under Part D of the Project will
be carried out by Post, Telegraph and Telephone (hereinafter called
PTT), a State Economic Enterprise established and operating under
the Laws of the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 6145
promulgated on July 17, 1953 with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such 4ssistance, the Borrower vill make available to
PTT a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided.


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Directorate" means the Regional Tourism Project
Execution Directorate (B6lge Turizm Proje Uygulama Midfirligu), a
unit established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry of
Tourism and Information, pursuant to Ministerial Order of the
Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and Information No. 48, dated
April 1, 1976.
(b) "Kepez Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Kepez pursuant to
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, providing for the terms and conditions under
which Kepez shall carry out Part C of the Project, and for the on-
lending by the Borrower to Kepez of that portion of the proceeds


﻿-4-
of the Loan allocated to Sub-Category (c) of Category (1), and Sub-
Category (b) of Category (2), of the table of Allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
agreement, and such term includes all schedules to the Kepez Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "PTT Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PTT pursuant to Section
6.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, providing for the terms and conditions under which PTT
shall carry out Part D of the Project and for the Borrower to make
available to PTT that portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
to Sub-Category (d) of Category (1), and Sub-Category (c) of Cate-
gory (2), of the table of Allocation of the proceeds of the Loan
set forth in paragraph (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and
such term includes all schedules to the PTT Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(d) "Lira" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Development Plans" means collectively the South Antalya
Master Plan with supporting maps at a scale of 1:25,000 (GUney Bati
Antalya Kiyi Kesimi 1:25,000 Olgekli Cevre Duzeni Plani) approved
by the Borrower's Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement on
April 16, 1976, with the related land use regulations referred
to in paragraph (g) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, and
the detailed Master Plan for the town of Kemer at a scale of
1:5,000 referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Loan
Agreement;


﻿-5-
(f) "South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Committee"
means the committee at the central level to be established pursuant
to paragraph (a) (i) of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
(g) "South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Subcommittee"
means the subcommittee at the regional level in the Project Area
to be established pursuant to paragraph (1) (ii) of Section 3.03
of the Loan Agreement;
(h) "Tourism Coordinating Committee" means the tourism sec-
tor policy committee of the Borrower established pursuant to
the Borrower's Decrees No. 6/12209 and No. 7/3484, respectively,
promulgated on September 18, 1969 and December 14, 1971, respec-
tively;
(i) "Project Area" means the area where the Project is to
be carried out on the sites of Kiziltepe, Tekerlektepe, Kemer
and Gu-neydeniz, the development of which is regulated by the
Development Plans; and
(j)  "Land Office" means the Land Office General Directorate
of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Bor-
rover's Law No. 1164 dated April 29, 1969 and the regulations
issued pursuant thereto.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six
million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
date specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower's Minister of Tourism and Informa-
tion or such other person or persons, as such Minister of Tourism
and Information shall designate in writing, is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its departments and agencies with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the 'funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Kepez and PTT to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Kepez Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PTT Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein set forth
and, shall take or cause to be taken all action including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Kepez and PTT, respectively,
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained, at all times, within its Ministry of Tourism and
Information, the Project Directorate with such functions, powers
and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Directorate to be
at all times adequately staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel, under the supervision of a qualified and experienced
Director.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall to the satisfaction of
the Bank:
(i) establish and thereafter maintain under the chair-
manship of a Deputy Undersecretary of the Borrower's
Ministry of Tourism and Information a South Antalya
Tourism Project Coordinating Committee with such
powers, functions and responsibilities to, inter
alia:
(1) coordinate and integrate at the central level,
the execution of the Project, with all the
relevant ministries, authorities and agencies
of the Borrower, with Kepez and PTT;
(2) assist the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and
Information in solving any problems interfering
with, or which may interfere with, the carry-
ing out of the Project; and
(    review and submit to the Borrower, through the
Borrower's relevant ministries, agencies and
authorities, including Kepez and PTT the annual
programs of such ministries, agencies and


﻿- 10 -
authorities in respect of the carrying out of
the Project; revie'v and discuss if need be the
progress reports propared by the South Antalya
Tourism Project Subcoimittee;
(ii) establish and thereafter maintain under the chair-
manship of the Governor of Antalya a South Antalya
Tourism Project Coordinating Subcommittee with such
powers, functions and responsibilities to, inter
alia:
(1) coordinate and integrate at the regional level
the execution of the Project with all the local
representatives of the relevant ministries and
agencies of the Borrower, with Kepez and PTT;
(2) assist the Project Directorate and the South
Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Committee
in monitoring the progress of the Project in
solving any problems interfering with, or which
may interfere with, the carrying out of the
Project; and
(3) prepare, integrate and submit to the South
Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Committee,
the annual programs of such ministries, agencies
and authorities in respect of the carrying
out of the Project; review and discuss if need
be, the progress reports prepared by the exe-
cuting units represented in such subcommittee.


﻿- 11 -
(iii) appoint to, and thereafter maintain as members of,
the South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Com-
mittee, the General Director or Heads of Departments
or such other persons as such Director and Department
Heads shall designate, of each of the Borrower's
Departments and Directorates listed in Schedule 5
to this Agreement;
(iv) appoint to, and thereafter maintain as members of,
the South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Sub-
committee, the regional or provincial directors or
such other persons as such directors shall desig-
nate, of each of the departments and directorates
listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(v) provide the South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinat-
ing Committee and the South Antalya Tourism Project
Coordinating Subcommittee, promptly as needed, with
such qualified and experienced supporting staff,
facilities, funds and other resources as shall be
required for the efficient discharge of their func-
tions and responsibilities;
(vi) cause such South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinat-
ing Committee and South Antalya Tourism Project
Coordinating Subcommittee to hold meetings as and
when needed, but in any event at least every three
months in the case of the South Antalya Tourism
Project Coordinating Subcommittee and every six
months in the case of the South Antalya Tourism


﻿- 12 -
Project Coordinating Committee, in order to perform
their functions referred to in paragraphs (i) and
(ii) hereof, respectively.
(b) The Borrower ihall maintain and operate the Tourism
Coordinating Committee until the date of the completion of the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
preparation of plans and specifications for Part A of the Project,
in the preparation of bidding documents for Part A of the Project,
in the supervision of the construction of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
a market strategy program for the Project Area, the Borrower
shall employ, no later than twelve months after the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as the Bank may agree, marketing
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Project Directorate in prequali-
fying hotel investors in the Project Area and, in advising such
hotel investors on hotel planning, and in negotiating hotel manage-
ment contracts, the Borrower shall employ, no later than six months
after the date of this Agreement, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, an hotel advisor consultant, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
(d) In order to assist the Borrower in preparing the cur-
ricula, course outlines and teacher training programs referred
to in Section 3.09 of this Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall em-
ploy, no later than six months after the date of this Agreement
or such other period as the Bank may agree, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Cc) The Borrower shall issue, as and when needed, any im-
port and other licenses including any foreign exchange authoriza-
tions required for the importation of goods or the supply of
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or for
the replacement or repair of such goods.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Proj-
ect and to see the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed,
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction, installation (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to take all such action as may
be required: (i) to obtain by November 1, 1978, or such other date
as the Bank may agree clear and valid title to the land for which
notices of expropriation have been sent to the owners of such land
as provided in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement;
and (ii) to develop such land, or cause such land to be developed,
all to be in accordance with the Development Plans.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The Borrower shall take all such action as may be re-
quired in order to assist private owners of (i) about 5 ha of land
located within the urban development area of Kemer, and (ii) of
other land in the Project Area earmarked for development of tourism
establishments or other recreational facilities under the Develop-
ment Plans after the end of calendar year 1981, respectively, to
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to develop such land
in accordance with the Development Plans by the end of the calendar
years 1979 and 1983, respectively, or such other dates as the Bank
may agree.
(d) The Borrower shall take all such action as may be re-
quired to ensure that whenever land is made available by the Bor-
rover through a sale, a lease, a transfer or any other form, to
developers of tourism establishments and recreational facilities
in the Project Area, such land shall be made available by the
Borrower to such developers on terms and conditions whereby the
Borrower shall obtain by written contract with such developer or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interest of the Borrower, including the right:
(i) to require initial construction works for the
development of the land so made available in
accordance with the Development Plans, within
a period not to exceed twelve months after the
date said land has been made available to
the developer;
(ii) to have such arrangements rescinded and the
control of the land so made available to return


﻿-16-
to the Borrower in the event such developer has,
except for reasons beyond its control, failed to
construct, within the said period, the said devel-
opment, all referred to in paragraph (d) (i) of
this Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(e) To the extent that: (i) the landowners referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section 3.07 of this Loan Agreement have
not, started to develop their land earmarked for development of
tourism establishments or other recreational facilities under the
Development Plans after the year 1981 or sold or leased such land
to private developers or to the Borrower, all to be for purposes
of development in accordance with the Development Plans and to be
in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank to be sent
to the Bank within two years of the date of this Agreement; and
(ii) the developers to whom land has been made available under
the arrangements referred to under paragraph (e) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement have not, except for reasons beyond their control
started to develop such land in accordance with the Development
Plans within twelve months of the date of the instrument under
which such land has been made available to such developers, the
Borrower hereby specifically undertakes to take all such action
as may be required under its laws on the expropriation of land for
public purposes, in order to acquire or to enable the Borrower to
acquire ownership of such land and rights in respect of such land,
and thereafter to develop such land, or cause such land to be de-
veloped in accordance with such Development Plans.


﻿- 17 -
Section 3.08. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not proceed with
the construction of houses for hotel employees under Part A.2
(i) of the Project until the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and
Information shall have entered into an agreement with the hotel
developer by whose employees such houses are to be used, whereby
such hotel developer has agreed to rent such houses at a rate
sufficient to cover capital and operating costs, and to make such
houses available to its employees.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to continue to carry out after
December 31, 1981, in the Project Area, an hotel employee housing
program and to provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose, provided,
however that the Borrower and the Bank are satisfied that there is
adequate justification for such employee housing program at that
time.
Section 3.09. (a) Within one year of the date of this Agree-
ment, or such other period as the Bank may agree, the Borrower
shall take all action as may be necessary to prepare curricula,
course outlines and a teacher training program for its hotel train-
ing school to be constructed under Part A.3 of the Project and to
send such curricula, course outlines and teacher training program
to the Bank for its comments. The Borrower shall thereafter
introduce under Part A.3 of the Project, such curricula, course
outlines and teacher training program, including such changes as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿18                                     I
(b) The Borrower shall, at all times, operate and maintain
the hotel training center constructed under Part A.3 of the Proj-
ect under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate num-
bers, and shall promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and school mainte-
nance practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that not less than 3,825 rooms in hotels,
vacation villages or other recreational facilities will be avail-
able for operation in the Project Area by December 31, 1989, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, provided, however, that the
Borrower and the Bank are satisfied that there is adequate tourist
demand for such facilities in the Project Area at that time.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall complete Part G 1 (a) and
(b) of the Project in accordance with a timetable and terms of
reference all to be satisfactory to the Bank and to be sent to
the Bank within six months of the date of this Agreement or such
other period as the Bank may agree.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall complete the carrying out of
Part G 2 of the Project by no later than July 1, 1980.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, imless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 20 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by the T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrover shall cause the Project Direc-
torate to establish and thereafter maintain accounts and records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting and auditing practices the financial re-
sources and expenditures of the Project Directorate in respect
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Directorate to: (i)
have such accounts in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning said accounts
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 21 -
Section 4.03. Within one year of the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and send to the Bank a proposed statement of policy to set
user charges in respect of the facilities benefitting from the
construction of infrastructure under the Project and shall there-
after afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
proposed statement of policy before its adoption. Such statement
of policy shall include, inter alia, a list of objectives, the
methodology for calculating tariffs, selling prices, rental charges
(relating to water and sewerage, ground rents, service charges,
building rentals and other fees) and procedures for implementation
of such policies.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make available or cause to
be made available to investors in hotels, vacation villages and
other recreational facilities in the Project Area, to the extent
such investors do not have access to credit on reasonable terms
from other sources, credit facilities on terms appropriate to
the nature and estimated financial prospects of the investments
to be made.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to use its best
efforts to enter into bilateral agreements permitting major inter-
national scheduled airlines to use on a regular basis the facil-
ities of the airport located near the City of Antalya.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to classify such airport under
its regulations as an international airport, and to permit foreign
charter airline carriers to provide charter airline service to the


﻿- 22 -
said Antalya airport, to the extent needed by full scale tourist
operations in the Antalya region and to the extent needed to supple-
ment airline charter operations of Turk Hava Yollari.
Section 4.06. Within six months of the date of this Agreement
or such other period as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall make
appropriate arrangements relating to procedures for submission and
approval of architectural plans for accommodation facilities in
the Project Area empowering the Project Directorate to review,
prior to the approval of the Borrower's Ministry of Reconstruction
and Resettlement, all tourism development plans in the Project
Area.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower: (i) undertakes to take all
such action as may be required to enable the Project Directorate
to manage, oDerate and maintain the infrastructure facilities and
the services constructed under, or provided through, Part A of
the Project, and shall thereafter cause the Project Directorate
to manage, operate, maintain, renew and repair such facilities
and to provide such services, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices; and (ii) shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To the extent that the responsibilities in respect of
management, operations and maintenance of the facilities construc-
ted under Part A of the Project shall be transferred to another
department or agency of the Borrower or to any other successor
organization or entity, the Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments to, or cause appropriate arrangements to be made: (i) to


﻿- 23 -
ensure that the facilities constructed under Part A of the Project
shall be operated., maintained, renewed and repaired, as and when
required, and that such service shall be provided, in accordance
with sound business, financial, administrative and engineering
practices; and (ii) to provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower: (i) undertakes to make appropriate arrange-
ments to manage, operate and maintain the infrastructure facilities
and the services constructed under, or provided through, Parts B, C,
D, E and F of the Project, and shall thereafter cause such facil-
ities to be managed, operated, maintained, renewed and repaired
and such services to be provided, all in accordance with sound
business, financial, administrative and engineering practices; and
(ii) shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(d) The Borrower shall send to the Bank within two years of
the date of this Agreement, or such other period as the Bank may
agree, a plan for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
to be constructed under Parts A, E and F of the Project.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause its General
Directorate of National Properties (Milli Emllk Genel Midirlug )
and its General Directorate of Forestry, respectively, to enter
into appropriate arrangements with the Project Directorate within
one year of the date of this Agreement or such other period as the


﻿Bank may agree for the purpose of determining the procedures to
be followed by such Directorates for consultation with the Project
Directorate prior to negotiating and concluding ground lease agree-
ments between the said Directorate and tourism investors related to
land administered by such Directorates in the Project Area. Such
arrangements shall include inter alia: (i) procedures to be fol-
lowed by the Project Directorate for the submission to said Direc-
torates of requests to make land administered by such Directorates
available to tourism investors approved by the Project Directorate;
(ii) guidelines with respect to the terms to be included in the
leasing agreements to be concluded between such Directorates and
such tourism investors; and (iii) guidelines with respect to the
management of land so leased to tourism investors by said Direc-
torates;
(b) The Borrower undertakes to cause its General Directorate
of National Properties (Milli Emlfk Genel MUdUrligi) and its Gen-
eral Directorate of Forestry, respectively, to make land available
to tourism developers in the Project Area only upon recommendation
of the Project Directorate and for the construction of tourism de-
velopment facilities consistent with the Development Plans.
Section 4.09. In order to assist the Borrower in the manage-
ment and operation of the harbor to be constructed under Part A2
(e) of the Project and of the public utilities facilities to be
built under the Project, the Borrower shall employ, no later than
eighteen months after the date of this Agreement, experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower, Kepez or PTT shall have failed to perform
any of their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under
the Kepez Subsidiary Loan Agreement or under the PTT Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, respectively.
(b) The Kepez Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PTT Subsidiary
Loan Agreement have been, assigned, amended or abrogated without
the prior consent of the Bank.
(c) The Development Plans or any part or provision thereof
have, in the opinion of the Bank, been amended, waived or abrogated
in any material respect without the prior consent of the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in para-
graphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery: (i) of the Kepez Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank on
behalf of the Borrower and Kepez, respectively; and (ii) of the
PTT Subsidiary Loan Agreement in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower and PTT, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b) The South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Committee
and the South Antalya Tourism Project Coordinating Subcommittee
have been established as provided in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agree-
ment.
(c) Detailed land use plans with regulations and maps at a
1:5,000 scale for Kemer, satisfactory to the Bank have been issued
and are in full force and effect.
(d) The consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of Section
3.04 of the Loan Agreement have been employed as provided in the
said paragraph (a) of such Section 3.04.


﻿-27-
(e) The Borrower has made a decision to expropriate the
land in Gfineydeniz, Tekerlektepe and Kiziltepe earmarked under the
Development Plans for the development of Tourism facilities in
Giineydeniz, Tekerlektepe and Kiziltepe prior to December 31, 1981
and which has not been made available under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank for the construction of tourism facilities in
accordance with the Development Plans and such a decision has been
notified to the owners of such land and published, all in accor-
dance with the provisions of Article 13 of the Borrower's Law
No. 6830 dated September 5, 1956, as amended.
(f) The Borrower has notified through the Land Office the
Land Registry in which the land located in the Project Area is
registered of its intent to exercise its preemptive rights in
accordance with Article 10 of the Borrower's Law No. 1164, dated
April 29, 1969, including the regulations applicable thereto.
(g) The Borrower has adopted detailed land use regulations
related to the South Antalya Master Plan with supporting map at
a scale of 1:25,000 approved on April 16, 1976 and such regula-
tions are in full force and effect.
(h) A Director of the Project Directorate with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to4he Bank has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:


﻿-28-
(a) That the Kepez Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and Kepez, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and Kepez in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the PTT Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and PTT, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and PTT in accordance with its terms.
(c) The detailed land use plans at a 1:5,000 scale for Kemer
have been issued and are in full force and effect.
(d) The decisions to expropriate referred to in paragraph (e)
of Section 6.01 have been validly taken, notified to the owners of
the land concerned and published as provided in paragraph (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement and such actions constitute all
actions required under the laws of the Borrower to initiate expro-
priation of land in the Project Area, and the Borrower has the right
to expropriate such land on behalf of the Land Office on the basis
of the South Antalya Master Plan with supporting maps at a scale
of 1:25,000, and the Land Office has the right to sell or lease
such land which has been so expropriated.
(e) The regulations referred to in paragraph (g) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement have been validly issued, are in full force
and effect and are fully enforceable under the laws of the Borrower.


﻿- 29 -
Section 6.03. The date November 30, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 30 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses 'are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mfidiirlfg  ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                Telex:
Maliye                        821 - 42285
Hazine                        MLYETR
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUl)


﻿- 31 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Tayyar Sadiklar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                  30%
(a) Part A of              7,800,000
the Project
(b) Part B of              2,700,000
the Project
(c) Part C of
the Project
(i) Part C (a)          250,000
and C (b)
of the Proj-
ect
(ii) Part C (c)          150,000
of the Proj-
ect
(d) Part D of                200,000
the Project
(e) Part E of              1,200,000
the Project


﻿- 33 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(f) Part F of               200,000
the Project
(2) Equipment and                            )
material                                )
(a) Part A of             2,400,000     )
the Project                        )    100% of foreign
)    expenditures;
(b) Part C of                           )   or 100% of ex-
the Project                        )    factory cost of
)    locally manu-
(i) Part C (a)        1,900,000    )   factured goods;
and C (b)                     )    or 80% of im-
of the Proj-                  )    ported items
ect                           )    procured lo-
cally
(ii) Part C (C)        1,100,000    )
of the Proj-
ect                           )
(c) Part D of             1,700,000     )
the Project                        )
(d) Part E of                400,000    )
the Project                        )
(e) Part F of               200,000     )
the Project                        )
(3) Technical assistance         400,000         100% of foreign
and consulting ser-                          expenditures
vices
(4) Interest and other         4,000,000        Amounts due
charges accrued on
or before April 14,
1980
(5) Unallocated                1,400,000
TOTAL      26,000,000


﻿- 314-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(i) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agree-
ment, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000,
may be made in respect of Sub-Category (b) of
Category 1, and in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000 may be made in respect
of Category 3, on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after March 1,
1976 and December 1, 1975, respectively; and


﻿- 35 -
(ii   for expenditures under Sub-category (b) (ii) of
Category (2) and under Sub-category (c) (ii) of
Category (1) of the table of Allocation of the Pro-
ceeds of the Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule until the Borrower has satisfied the Bank
that the specifications of the supply systems to be
installed under Part C (c) of the Project are eco-
nomically and technically justified.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expendi-
tures thereunder shall have been made.
6. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿-36-
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-37-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrover's program for the devel-
opment of four tourist sites at Kiziltepe, Tekerlektepe, Kemer
and Gineydeniz in the Borrower's province of Antalya. The Project
provides tourism infrastructure including the development in Kemer
village of central services and recreation facilities in support
of the Project Area. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A
1.   Construction and installation of infrastructure and
other works for the tourism sites at Kiziltepe, Tekerlektepe and
Gineydeniz, comprising:
(a) water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment
systems; and
(b) solid waste disposal systems.
2.   Construction, installation and equipping of urban infra-
structure, recreation and other works at Kemer, comprising:
(a) vater supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment
systems;
(b) streets and parking areas;


﻿- 38 -
388
(c) a storm water drainage system;
(d) a health clinic in the town of Kemer;
(e) a small craft harbor comprising breakwaters, landing
piers, docking and service slips, navigational aids,
a yacht club combined with an administration build-
ing, boat handling and storage facilities, a boat
maintenance depot, public restrooms, parking areas
and two 4O-passenger ferry/excursion boats.
(f) public parks, playgrounds and sports facilities;
(g) improvement of two public beaches;
(h) bus terminal, small industrial facilities and
commercial buildings;
(i) about 280 houses for hotel employees; and
(j) an electricity network within Kemer.
3.   Constructing, furnishing and equipping of a hotel train-
ing school at Kemer to provide vocational training for about 375
students per year, consisting of a training school, a practice
hotel with a capacity of about 50 rooms and a dormitory for about
250 students.
4.   Constructing, equipping and furnishing of a Project
administrative complex at Kemer.


﻿- 39 -
Part B
Completion of the construction of a segment of about 32 km
of the main highway linking the city of Antalya with the Project
Area, and construction of access roads to the sites of Kiziltepe,
Tekerlektepe, Kemer and Gu*neydeniz in the Province of Antalya.
Part C
(a) constructing and equipping of a 154-KV transmission
line from the Kepez power station to a new trans-
former sub-station at Kemer and of a feeder at
Kepez;
(b) installation of a step-down transformer substation
at Kemer;
(c) installation of a standby supply system to serve
the Project Area; and
(d) 31.5-KY single circuit transmission lines to all
project sites plus Beldibi.
Part D
Constructing and equipping of telecommunications facilities,
comprising:
(a) a 300-channel microwave radio link between Antalya
and Kemer;


﻿(b) a new telephone exchange at Kemer;
(c) upgrading of the existing telephone exchange in
the city of Antalya;
(d) a 45 km telephone network in the Project Area; and
(e) a telex system for the hotels in the Project Area.
Part E
Construction, equipping and improvement of infrastructure
and other works for a National Parks Program, comprising:
(a) beach and campsite facilities, including access
roads;
(b) reforestation;
(c) trails, walking and cycle paths;
(d) landscaping along roads;
(e) scenic look-out points;
(f) office building and visitor center; and
(g) communications equipment, boats, trucks, two
helicopters equipped for firefighting, and fire
control towers.


﻿Part F
Protection of, and construction of, access facilities on the
archeological site at Phaselis, comprising:
(a) site clearing, initial conservation, a network
of internal walking paths and fencing;
(b) access road and utility connections;
(c) multi-purpose building including an exhibition hall;
and
(d) a small boat-landing pier.
Part G
1.   (a) an economic study on hotel profitability and tourism
incentives in Turkey.
(b)  a study for promoting tourism in the Project Area.
2.   A conservation study and an underwater archaeological
survey for Phaselis.
*              *         *     e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 142 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1982                                    275,000
April 15, 1983                                      285,000
October 15, 1983                                    300,000
April 15, 1984                                      315,000
October 15, 1984                                    325,000
April 15, 1985                                      340,000
October 15, 1985                                    360,000
April 15, 1986                                      370,000
October 15, 1986                                    390,000
April 15, 1987                                      405,000
October 15, 1987                                    425,000
April 15, 1988                                      440,000
October 15, 1988                                    465,000
April 15, 1989                                      480,000
October 15, 1989                                    505,000
April 15, 1990                                      525,000
October 15, 1990                                    550,000
April 15, 1991                                      575,000
October 15, 1991                                    600,000
April 15, 1992                                      625,000
October 15, 1992                                    655,000
April 15, 1993                                      680,000
October 15, 1993                                    715,000
April 15, 1994                                      745,000
October 15, 1994                                    775,000
April 15, 1995                                      815,000
October 15, 1995                                    845,000
April 15, 1996                                      885,000
October 15, 1996                                    925,000
April 15, 1997                                      965,000
October 15, 1997                                  1,010,000


﻿- 43-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
April 15, 1998                                    1,050,000
October 15, 1998                                 1,100,000
April 15, 1999                                   1,145,000
October 15, 1999                                 1,200,000
April 15, 2000                                   1,250,000
October 15, 2000                                 1,310,000
April 15, 2001                                   1,375,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 44-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1.05%
before maturity
More than three years but                    2.10%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  3.90%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                   5.65%
not more than sixteen years
*before maturity
More than sixteen years but                  7.45%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years                   8.15%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three years                 8.85%
before maturity


﻿-45-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Paragraphs B and D hereof, the goods
and works shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Contracts for similar items shall to the extent practicable
be grouped into one single bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.1 above: (i)
contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cos. less than
the equivalent of $100,000 may be awarded on the basis of local
advertising only and in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures; (ii) contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $500,000 may be awarded on the basis of
local advertising only and in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that notwith-
standing the above provisions, contracts for civil works for the
construction of roads may also be awarded without recourse to
international competitive bidding procedures, provided that such


﻿- 46-
contracts shall be procured on the basis of reasonable and com-
petitive procurement procedures, including, but not limited to,
the solicitation of not less than three price quotations and that
the aggregate amount of all contracts for civil works for the con-
struction of roads to be so awarded shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $2,000,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii). the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Turkey, except those procured in ac-
cordance with local procedures may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 47 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Turkey.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 48-
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank and notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraphs A and B of this Schedule, civil works
under the Project may be carried out by force account, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of work to be so carried out
shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
E. Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its com-
ments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-49-
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more or for material and equip-
ment estimated to cost $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
paragraph (a) of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommienda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 50 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior .o the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 51 -
SCHEDULE 5
Composition of the South Antalya Tourism Project
Coordinating Committee and of South Antalya Tourism Project
Coordinating Subcommittee
Ministries and       South Antalya Tourism   South Antalya Tourism
Agencies of the      Project Coordinating    Project Coordinating
Borrower             Committee               Subcommittee
Ministry of Tour-   A Deputy underSecretary  Project Directorate
ism and Infor-    and Liaison Office of
mation            Project Directorate
State Planning      Department of Economic
Organization      Planning
Ministry of Fi-     General Directorate of
nance             Treasury and General
Directorate of OIEC
General Directorate of
Budget and Financial
Control
Ministry of Inter- General Directorate of    Goveraor of Antalya
nal Affairs       Local Administrations
Ministry of Recon- General Directorate of    Provincial Directorate
struction and     Planning and Recon-      for Reconstruction
Settlements       struction
General Directorate of
Land Office
Ministry of Fores- General Directorate of    Regional Directorate
try               National Parks and       of Forestry
Hunting
Ministry of Public  General Directorate of   Regional Directorate
Works             Highways                 of Highways
General Directorate for Regional Directorate
Construction of Rail-    for Construction of
roads, Harbors and       Harbor
Airports


﻿-52-
Ministries and       South Antalya Tourism   South Antalya Tourism
Agencies of the      Project Coordinating    Project Coordinating
Borrower             Committee               Subcommittee
Ministry of Energy  General Directorate of   Regional Directorate
and Natural Re-   State Hydraulic Works   of Hydraulic Works
sources
General Directorate of
Turkish Electric Author-
ity
Department of Energy
Ministry of Cul-    General Directorate of   Directorate of Antalya
ture              Antiquities              Museum
Ministry of Trans- General Directorate of    Airport Directorate
ports             Civil Aviation
General Directorate of
Telecommunications
General Directorate of   Regional Directorate
PTT                      of PTT
Ministry of Indus- Department of Industry
try and Techno-
logy
Ministry of Cus-    General Directorate of   Provincial Directorate
toms and Mono-    Customs                  of Customs
polies
Ministry of Public General Directorate of    Provincial Directorate
Health            Public Health Planning   of Public Health
Department
T.C. Tourism Bank   General Directorate      Local Office
Kepez               Liaison Office           General Directorate


