                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                             Report No.: AB6668
                               Additional Financing II for Rural Electrification and Renewable
 Project Name                  Energy Development Project
 Region                        SOUTH ASIA
 Sector                        Renewable energy (100%)
 Project ID                    P126724
 Parent Project ID             P071794
 Borrower(s)                   People’s Republic of Bangladesh
 Implementing Agency           Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL)
 Environment Category          [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared             June 20, 2011
 Date of Appraisal             June 1, 2011
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval

1. Country and Sector Background

    The Vision and Policy Statement (2002) of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) on Power
Sector Reforms has, among others, the objectives of: i) bringing the entire country under
electricity service by the year 2020 with improved reliability and quality; ii) increasing the
sector’s efficiency and making the power sector financially viable; iii) making the sector
commercial and increasing private sector participation. The Renewable Energy Policy (2008) of
GOB laid out the target of meeting 5% of total power demand from renewable energy sources by
2015 and 10% by 2020. These are ambitious targets given the fact that access to electricity is
below 50% today and the current share of renewable energy is less than 1% of total power
generation in the country. Only about one-third of rural households have access to electricity
with about 16 million households yet to be electrified.

    Peak electricity demand in the country is around 5,500 MW and available generation
capacity of 3,600 to 4,300 MW is insufficient to satisfy current demand. GOB has embarked
upon an ambitious generation expansion plan that envisages adding more than 11,500 MW to the
national grid by the year 2015. As part of that plan, a number of large gas-fired power plants
have recently been awarded to the private sector, which will take a few more years to be
operational. As an interim measure, GOB has contracted about 2,500 MW of rental plants, and
over 1,100 MW have recently started supplying power helping to relieve the power shortages to
some extent. With support from the project, GOB has also embarked upon a demand side
management measure of deploying 28 million energy-efficient compact fluorescent lamps
(CFLs) in exchange of incandescent lamps to reduce peak demand.

   The Rural Electrification Board (REB) is the apex body responsible for planning, financing,
and installation of the rural electrification network in the country. The maintenance and
operation of the system is the responsibility of 70 rural electricity cooperatives, called the Palli
Bidyut Samities (PBS). The REB/PBS system today accounts for more than half of the power
demand connecting more than 7 million rural households to the national grid. Once a center of
excellence, the REB/PBS system currently is facing institutional issues, which if not properly
addressed, can magnify and put the entire program at risk. The generation shortages and
inadequate adjustments in retail tariff have contributed to weak financial performance of the
PBSs.

    The pace of new grid connections has slowed in recent years due to power generation
shortages. Despite GOB’s efforts to increase generation capacity and demand side management
measures to reduce peak demand, it will take years to fully close the gap between power demand
and supply. Consequently, it will not be possible to achieve the government vision of universal
access by 2020 relying only on the grid. Furthermore, the dispersed nature of rural settlements
and the numerous rivers that crisscross the country make grid-based electrification in many areas
difficult and expensive.

    Off-grid renewable energy is the near-to-medium term and least cost option left for millions
of people in the remote areas of the country. With support from IDA and the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), the GOB launched a market-based off-grid electrification program
in 2002 with IDCOL as the implementing agency. Today, with support of 29 POs, IDCOL
efforts have led to a very successful off-grid electrification program where a million households
are receiving basic electricity services from low cost and reliable SHS. Further expansion of
services using renewable energy-powered mini-grids has also been initiated.

2. Objectives

The project development objective is to increase access to electricity in rural areas of Bangladesh
and help promote more efficient energy consumption.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

    The primary rationale for the additional financing is to continue support for the Project that is
an important contributor to the Government’s vision of providing universal access to electricity
by 2020. Given the power shortages and the resulting slow-down in grid-based electrification
and the institutional problems faced by REB/PBSs, further support to off-grid renewable energy-
based electrification is warranted. For the remote and dispersed communities, SHS is least cost
compared to other options. The proposed additional financing will support installation of about
630,000 SHS that will contribute directly to achieving the targets of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of providing 900,000 new connections during FY11-14 CAS period.

    The GOB’s off-grid electrification program has a target of achieving 2.5 million SHS and
other renewable energy installations by 2014. This will require about $495 million in credit and
US$59 million in grant support. The Bank received an ERD request for this funding on January
26, 2011. The first round additional financing extended the project closing date to December 31,
2012. As the next step, it is proposed to provide a second round of additional financing to the
RERED project to carry the project through to December 2012. IDA funding required is
US$172 million, of which US$157 million will be for loan financing, US$9 million for subsidy,
and US$6 million for SHS testing facility and technical assistance.
    The proposed additional financing will support a project that has established SHS as a viable
technology and the IDCOL-led implementation model as a successful approach for rapidly
increasing access to electricity in rural areas using renewable energy sources1. It has achieved a
pace of electrification of 40,000 households per month. The project to-date has resulted in
quality products that customers demand, an efficient delivery and financing infrastructure, and an
effective supervisory structure. Demand for SHS is clearly evident from the accelerating pace of
installations.

    A number of alternatives were considered before proposing this second round of additional
financing:

    a. Close the project early and let domestic sources of financing mobilized by the POs
       finance future SHS sales. This option was discarded as it was too premature to expect
       POs to be able to suddenly mobilize the quantum of funds required. Presently, the
       refinancing facility of IDCOL provides up to 80% of the micro-credit extended to
       customers leaving the POs’ share at 20% of the micro-credit amount. During the course
       of the proposed additional financing, this share of the POs is expected to rise to 30%.
       Also, stopping further IDA support at this stage will increase the risk of market failure as
       it could result in the dismantling of the existing country-wide SHS service infrastructure
       and leave the existing 1 million customers with limited access to repair and maintenance
       services.

    b. Close the project and prepare a new project. It was earlier planned that the additional
       funding needs for the renewable energy program of IDCOL would be met from a new
       project that will also include support for augmentation of the existing rural grid network
       of REB, and the transmission system expansion by the Power Grid Company of
       Bangladesh (PGCB). However, before new support for REB could be considered, a
       credible and time-bound action plan agreed by all stakeholders is needed to help address
       the issues and challenges that REB/PBSs are facing. Progress on the development of the
       action plan however has been slow, which has delayed preparation of the new project.
       The immediate funding needs of the successful SHS program necessitates this second
       round additional financing in advance of a new project. Delays in providing support to
       the SHS program would result in dissipating the considerable infrastructure and human
       capacities that have been successfully built over the course of several years. Rebuilding
       such capacities at a later stage would be costly, time consuming, and inefficient. As noted
       above, loss of such infrastructure as the POs dismantle their service centers would deny
       access of existing customers to repair and maintenance services.

4. Description

    a. Component 1: Scale up the renewable energy component (US$166 million). This
       includes loan financing (US$157 million) and grant support (US$9 million) for

1
  Under the SHS program, consumers enter into a micro-finance agreement with the POs following which the POs
install the systems as per technical standards set by IDCOL. After the systems are installed, the POs apply for re-
financing from IDCOL. After technical and other verifications, IDCOL releases the credit and a fixed grant
(currently $28 per system) to the POs. This refinancing provides the POs with funds to install more systems and
reach even more remote areas.
       installation of approximately 630,000 SHS of various sizes, and several mini-gird
       projects. As this is a market driven program, customer demand will drive the types of
       systems purchased. The indicative portfolio of mini-grids comprises 60 solar PV
       irrigation systems, 5 biogas power projects (20KW each) and 1 biomass gasification plant
       (200 KW). The actual number of sub-projects will vary based on demand. Feasibility
       studies and appraisals of several of these projects have been completed.
   b. Component 2: Technical assistance (US$6 million) for quality assurance, training and
      outreach, and environmental management. The principle TA activities are the following:
          i. Services:
               (a)    Quality Assurance: Establishing capacities for PV systems testing,
                      support to the Technical Standards Committee for quality improvement,
                      expanded technical SHS inspection program, collection efficiency
                      inspections, and field and laboratory SHS performance testing.
               (b)    Training & Outreach: Customer education and outreach, PO staff training,
                      technician accreditation program design, technicians accreditation,
                      training and exposure visits, market spoilage avoidance information
                      dissemination, and consumer response survey for newly emerging high
                      efficiency advanced white Lighting Emitting Diode (LED) lamps.
               (c)    Environment Improvement: Battery recycling and CFL recycling support
          ii. Goods:
              Procurement of training manuals, customer training leaflets, inspection forms,
              toolkits, and laptop computers. Procurement and set up of PV Testing Lab
              Equipment.

5. Financing
Source:                                                                        ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT/OTHERS                                                        83
International Development Association (IDA)                                     172
                                                                   Total        255

6. Implementation

    IDCOL, which has successfully managed the renewable energy component of RERED, will
continue to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the additional financing under the
same implementation arrangement.          The same implementation arrangement with the
Participating Organizations (POs) will continue under the proposed additional financing. Under
the SHS program, consumers enter into a micro-finance agreement with the POs following which
the POs install the systems as per technical standards set by IDCOL. After the systems are
installed, the POs apply for re-financing from IDCOL. After technical and other verifications,
IDCOL releases the credit and a fixed grant (currently $28 per system) to the POs. This
refinancing provides the POs with funds to install more systems and reach even more remote
areas.

7. Sustainability
    The project uses well established renewable energy technologies. The SHS component will
continue to use internationally sourced photovoltaic panels and locally sourced batteries, charge
controllers and lights, all of which are compliant with the standards set by the technical standards
committee of IDCOL. Regular inspections are held to ensure the systems are installed as per the
approved technical standards. The POs achieved an average collection efficiency of 94% and are
servicing their debts owed to IDCOL on a timely basis. To ensure the quality of the SHS
components, the project will support establishment of an SHS testing facility in the country. An
appropriate institution capable of operating such a facility will be selected through a competitive
process. Testing services would be offered for a fee to the POs and manufacturers. IDCOL
would use these services to monitor quality and performance.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

    The proposed second additional financing will further scale up the solar home system (SHS)
and other renewable energy program building on the successful implementation model for the
renewable energy component supported under the original project.

9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

    The safeguard category of the project is B since there are no significant and/or irreversible
adverse environmental and social issues in the sub-projects financed under the project. The
renewable energy component yields net positive environmental impacts. Since the proposed
additional financing will be for further scaling up the renewable energy component, it is not
anticipated that there will be any significant and/or irreversible adverse environmental and social
issues. The discharge of lead sulphate in the local environment during recycling of used SHS
batteries is a concern. An Environment Management Framework (EMF) was adopted by IDCOL
and REB during the first additional financing which required the battery manufacturers to adopt
ISO 14001-2204 (Environment Management Standard) and OHSAS 18001:1999 (Occupational
Health & Safety Management Systems) certifications by June 2011. Most of the battery
manufacturers by now have introduced several measures to improve the environmental and
safety condition in battery recycling process and are in the process of adopting the ISO
certifications. It is expected that all the battery manufacturers will complete ISO and OHSAS
certification by December 2011.

    IDCOL has strengthened its institutional capacity for environmental and social management
by appointing a full-time environment and social safeguards specialist. The specialist will be
strengthening monitoring of battery recycling to promote recycling at approved recycling centers
(and not by “backyard? smelters). The specialist will also seek to ensure that the environment
and social aspects are adequately addressed in the mini-grids that are proposed to be financed
under the second additional financing. The existing Environment Management Framework
(EMF) of the project has been revised as an Environment and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) incorporating social safeguards measures for the mini-grid projects.


10. List of Factual Technical Documents
N/A
11. Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Zubair K.M. Sadeque
Title:   Financial Analyst
Tel:     5764+4119
Email: zsadeque@worldbank.org.
Location: Dhaka, Bangladesh (IBRD)

Implementing Agency (Infrastructure Development Company Limited)
Contact: Mr. Islam Sharif
Title:   Executive Director and CEO
Tel:     8802- 912 0171-8
Email: islamsharif@idcol.org

12. For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-4500
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Email: pic@worldbank.org
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
