                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                            APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 07/27/2011                                     Report No.: AC6399
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P071794                 Original Project Name: Rural
                                             Electrification and Renewable Energy
                                             Development
Country: Bangladesh                          Project ID: P126724
Project Name: Additional Financing II for Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy
Development Project
Task Team Leader: Zubair K.M. Sadeque
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 6, 2011       Estimated Board Date: August 23, 2011
Managing Unit: SASDE                         Lending Instrument: Financial
                                             Intermediary Loan
Sector: Other Renewable Energy (100%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (100%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):            172.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0.00
         Asian Development Bank                                         2.00
         Global Partnership on Output-based Aid                         6.70
         GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW)                          0.60
         LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                                          22.80
         Non-Government Organization (NGO) of Borrowing Country 51.00
                                                                       83.10
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                   Yes [ ]    No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The project development objective is to increase access to electricity in rural areas of
Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption.

3. Project Description
The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with further scale-
up of the successful Solar Home Systems (SHS) program in remote rural areas by the
eligible Participating Organizations (POs) under a micro-credit scheme implemented by
the Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL).
 Proposed Components of the additional financing are as follows:

  a. Component 1: Scale up the renewable energy component (US$166 million). This
includes loan financing (US$157 million) and grant support (US$9 million) for
installation of approximately 630,000 SHS of various sizes, and several mini-gird
projects. As this is a market driven program, customer demand will drive the types of
systems purchased. The indicative portfolio of mini-grids comprises 60 solar PV
irrigation systems, 5 biogas power projects (20KW each) and 1 biomass gasification plant
(200 KW). The actual number of sub-projects will vary based on demand. Feasibility
studies and appraisals of several of these projects have been completed.

  b. Component 2: Technical assistance (US$6 million) for quality assurance, training and
outreach, and environmental management. The principle TA activities are the following:
  i.    Services:
  (a) Quality Assurance: Establishing capacities for PV systems testing, support to the
Technical Standards Committee for quality improvement, expanded technical SHS
inspection program, collection efficiency inspections, and field and laboratory SHS
performance testing.
  (b) Training & Outreach: Customer education and outreach, PO staff training,
technician accreditation program design, technicians accreditation, training and exposure
visits, market spoilage avoidance information dissemination, and consumer response
survey for newly emerging high efficiency advanced white Lighting Emitting Diode
(LED) lamps.
  (c) Environment Improvement: Battery recycling and CFL recycling support
  ii.   Goods:
  Procurement of training manuals, customer training leaflets, inspection forms, toolkits,
and laptop computers. Procurement and set up of PV Testing Lab Equipment.

 In addition, the current project to which this additional financing credit is proposed, is
also supporting the government#s demand side management program of replacement of
incandescent lamps with energy efficient compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) to reduce
peak electricity demand in the country. The first phase deployment of 10 million CFLs
has been completed under the first additional financing credit. The second phase
deployment of another 17.5 million CFLs will be carried out through a reallocation of
proceeds from the on-going additional financing of the project.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The SHS and mini-grid projects supported by the additional financing credit will be
implemented in the rural areas of Bangladesh where grid electricity is not economically
viable or will take long time to reach.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi (SASDI)
   Ms Sabah Moyeen (SASDS)
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                 X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                    X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
There are no significant and/or irreversible adverse environmental and social issues in the
sub-projects financed under the project. The renewable energy component yields net
positive environmental impacts. SHS and other renewable energy technologies will
result in the replacement of kerosene and other biomass fuels that are currently used for
lighting.

 The major environmental concern in SHS is the improper disposal/ recycling of lead-
acid storage battery used in SHS. If not properly disposed/ recycled, the lead sulphate
can contaminate the surrounding lands and water bodies. Lead sulfate is a water soluble
substance that could contaminate groundwater and can be transferred up the food chain.
Also, the unsafe practices of dismantling of used batteries and lack of standard
procedures are major occupational health and safety concerns for the workers at the
recycling facilities. With proper recycling processes and practices, environmental
impacts can be mitigated.

 The renewable energy based mini-grid sub-projects to be financed under the proposed
additional financing credit may have localized and temporal environmental impact. The
extent and exact locations of these sub-projects are not known at this stage. Sub-project
specific environmental assessment will be carried out as part of appraisal of these sub-
projects and appropriate mitigation measures adopted before financing could be
considered for these sub-projects under the proposed additional financing credit.

  The CFL component of the ongoing project will help reduce peak demand in the country
and thus contribute to less emission from power generation. In general, CFLs use 75%
less energy than incandescent bulbs.

 The technical specifications of the CFLs supported under the project required the
mercury content to be no more than 5 milligrams per unit (which is 1/100th of the amount
of mercury used in a mercury thermometer). Given the large number of CFLs supported
under the project (10.5 million already procured and another 17.5 million under
procurement) can have a collective impact on the environment during disposal.
However, the CFLs can be recycled, with virtually all the components (metal end caps,
glass tubing, mercury, and phosphor) can all be separated and re-used. The metallic
portions can be sold as scrap metal, recycled glasses can be remanufactured into other
glass products, and mercury can be re-used in other products.

 Considering the nature and magnitude of potential environmental impacts from
relatively limited scale physical interventions and mostly environmental friendly works,
the proposed additional financing credit is classified as category B.

  No land acquisition or displacement (physical and/or economic) of people will be
allowed under the project. Adequate screening mechanisms will be used to ensure this.
  The project may extend services/benefits/products to the Indigenous Peoples (IPs), but
the IPs are free to avail these on a purely voluntary basis, as paying customers. Where
necessary, the Partner Organizations (POs) will carry out adequate consultations
(customer training, information on maintenance and proper usage) in relevant local
languages, adhering to local customs and practices (as has been the practice in the on-
going phase of the project). A brief social-screening questionnaire is included in the
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) to ensure that land acquisition
and/or displacement of people does not occur. The questionnaire will also assess if the
sub-project(s) operate in IP areas, so that the Partner Organizations (POs) can take
adequate steps to ensure relevant consultations.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The project uses renewable energy technology, and hence there are no irreversible
indirect and/or long term impact anticipated in the project area.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Earlier studies have identified off-grid renewable energy technology as the cost-effective
and environment-friendly technology for the millions of people in the remote areas of the
country. The renewable energy based mini-grid sub-projects will be assessed based on
defined indicators including environmental parameters and alternative locations or
options before they are considered for financing under the proposed additional financing
credit.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
IDCOL developed a policy guideline for disposal of warranty expired batteries in June
2005 that spelled out the roles and responsibilities of the Partner Organizations (POs) and
battery manufacturers for proper collection of used batteries and proper recycling. An
Environment Management Framework (EMF) was adopted by IDCOL during the first
additional financing in 2009 which required the battery manufacturers to adopt ISO
14001-2204 (Environment Management Standard) and OHSAS 18001:1999
(Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems) certifications by June 2011. Most
of the battery manufacturers by now have introduced several measures to improve the
environmental and safety condition in battery recycling process and are in the process of
adopting the certifications. It is expected that all the battery manufacturers will complete
ISO and OHSAS certifications by December 2011. However, the risk remains that the
used batteries will be recycled by informal "backyard smelters" in an environmentally
harmful manner. The participation agreements with the POs have been amended and a
new reporting mechanism introduced to ensure that used batteries are returned to
compliant recycling centers, and are not sold to #backyard smelters#. Under the technical
assistance component, studies will be carried out to understand the dynamics of the
battery recycling in the informal sector, identify the potential to improve the percentage
of lead recovery and occupational health and safety practices. In addition, the project
will consider opening a new credit line to support the users in purchasing the second new
battery. An annual environmental audit by an independent third party will be carried out
to check that the used batteries in the SHS program are returned to compliant recycling
centers and are not sold to backyard smelters. The audit will cover an assessment of the
adequacy of the relevant clauses in the participation agreement with the POs in ensuring
appropriate recycling of batteries.

 The institutional capacity of IDCOL for environmental and social management has been
strengthened by appointing a full-time environment and social safeguards specialist. The
specialist will be strengthening IDCOL#s monitoring of battery recycling to promote
recycling at approved centers (and not by backyard smelters). The specialist will also
seek to ensure that the environment and social aspects are adequately addressed in the
mini-grids that are proposed to be financed under the second additional financing.

 A national guideline for collection of waste CFLs and an appropriate recycling method
will be developed by IDCOL. The collected incandescent lamps are being destructed in
consultation with the Department of Environment. An annual environment audit will be
carried out that will assess the effectiveness of re-use and recycling practices of CFLs,
including its components, such as metal end caps, glass tubing, mercury and phosphorus.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The SHS are sold to the households under a micro-credit system. If the households do
not want it, they don#t buy the systems. During installation of the SHS, customers are
given training for regular repair and maintenance. There is a telephone hotline at IDCOL
to which any customer can report a problem directly if the complaints/problems are not
addressed by the POs in time.

 To ensure social safeguards particularly in the mini-grid projects to be financed under
the proposed additional financing, the existing Environment Management Framework
(EMF) of the project has been revised as an Environment and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) that includes, among others, the following requirements: i)
feasibility studies/appraisal reports of the mini-grid projects to certify that the lands are
not acquisitioned, are free of encumbrances, and will not impact negatively on the
livelihood of any vulnerable groups and that any sub-project that is found to displace
people would not be considered by IDCOL for financing; ii) all land transactions for the
sub-projects will be done on a willing-buyer willing-seller basis where the seller has the
option of refusing to sell. Where the project operates in areas where IPs live, all required
consultations, awareness-raising etc will be carried out in local languages adhering to
local cultures and traditions.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 07/21/2011
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             07/25/2011
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              07/27/2011
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                 Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)             Yes
  review and approve the EA report?
  Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          Yes
  credit/loan?
  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank’s       Yes
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           N/A
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                             Name                          Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Zubair K.M. Sadeque                       07/25/2011
Environmental Specialist:           Mr Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi                     07/25/2011
Social Development Specialist       Ms Sabah Moyeen                              07/25/2011
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Mr Sanjay Srivastava                         07/25/2011
  Comments: cleared. See email of 07/20 for details.
Sector Manager:                     Mr Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies                   07/27/2011
  Comments: cleared as Acting Sector Manager
