                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                            Report No. 88546




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                      The Peoples’ Republic of Bangladesh

 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
         PROJECT (IDA-36790 IDA-46430 IDA-50130 TF-51301)


  POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                    (IDA-39130 IDA-H0920)

      POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT (IDA-44360)




                                 June 20, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents (annual averages; selected years)
Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (BDT)

2002                     US$1.00                  BDT59.63
2005                     US$1.00                  BDT64.65
2010                     US$1.00                  BDT70.58
2013                     US$1.00                  BDT77.67


Abbreviations and Acronyms
BERC           Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
BPDB           Bangladesh Power Development Board
CFL            Compact Fluorescent Lamps
DESA           Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority
EGCB           Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh
ESMAP          Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GTCL           Gas Transmission Company Limited
IDCOL          Infrastructure Development Company Limited
IPP            Independent Power Producer
kV             Kilovolt
kWh            Kilowatt-hour
MPEMR          Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources
MW             Megawatt
PBS            Palli Bidyut Samities or Rural Electric Cooperatives
PGCB           Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
REB            Rural Electrification Board
RERED          Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development (Project)
SHS            Solar Home System
SZPDC          South Zone Power Distribution Company




Fiscal Year

Government:              July 1 – June 30




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                               :   Mr. Varadarajan Atur
                                                                    i




Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iii
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Rural Electricity and Renewable Energy Development (RERED) Project ................... 8
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 8
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 14
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 21
3. Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project ........................................... 30
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ...................................................................... 30
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 34
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 39
4. Power Sector Development Policy Credit .................................................................... 43
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 43
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 46
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 49
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 49
5. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 53
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 56
Annex B. List of World Bank Energy Sector Activities in Bangladesh ........................... 63
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 64
Annex D ............................................................................................................................ 66




This report was prepared by Varadarajan Atur and Ramachandra Jammi who assessed the projects in
December 2013. The report was peer reviewed by Arturo Rivera and panel reviewed by Peter Freeman.
Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                                               iii


 Principal Ratings
 Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Project (P071794)
                                            ICR*                      ICR Review*                            PPAR
 Outcome                               Satisfactory                                                 Highly Satisfactory
 Risk to Development                     Moderate                                                          Moderate
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                      Satisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory                                                 Highly Satisfactory
 * The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
 Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



 Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project (P078707)
                                           ICR                        ICR Review                                PPAR
 Outcome                              Satisfactory                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
 Risk to Development                   Moderate                                                             Substantial
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                     Satisfactory                                                  Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower                             Satisfactory                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
 Performance


 Power Sector Development Policy Credit (P107797)
                                             ICR                             ICR Review                               PPAR
Outcome                         Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development                 Negligible to Low                         Significant                              High
Outcome
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory                 Moderately Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
                                          iv




Key Staff Responsible
Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Project
                                           Division Chief/
Project         Task Manager/Leader        Sector Director        Country Director
Appraisal       Subramaniam V. Iyer      Penelope J. Brooke       Mieko Nishimizu
Completion      Zubair K.M. Sadeque            Jyoti Shukla      Isabel M. Guerrero

Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
                                           Division Chief/
Project         Task Manager/Leader        Sector Director        Country Director
Appraisal          Salman Zaheer         Penelope J. Brooke      Christine I. Wallich
Completion           Md. Iqbal           Jyoti Shukla (acting)     Johannes Zutt

Power Sector Development Policy Credit
                                           Division Chief/
Project         Task Manager/Leader        Sector Director        Country Director
Appraisal        Alan F. Townsend          Salman Zaheer              Xian Zhu
Completion       Alan F. Townsend          Salman Zaheer          Robert L. Floyd
                                                           v



            IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                         independent evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface

This Project Performance Assessment Report, prepared by the Independent Evaluation
Group (IEG), evaluates Bangladesh’s Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy
Development (RERED) Project (FY2002-13), Power Sector Development Technical
Assistance Project (FY2004-13), and the Power Sector Development Policy Credit
(FY2008-09).

The RERED project was approved on June 25, 2002, became effective on December 31,
2002, and closed on December 31, 2012, nearly four and a half years after the planned
closing date of June 30, 2008. The total project cost was US$759 million, about two and
a half times the original project cost of US$298 million. Of this, the original IDA
contribution was US$191 million supplemented by two rounds of additional financing in
December 2009 and August 2011 of US$130 million and US$172 million respectively.
Of this US$431 million was disbursed, and the remaining US$61 million was cancelled
from the credit. The project was restructured with Board approval on August 28, 2011,
by which time US$346 million were disbursed, amounting to 80 percent of the final
disbursement of US$431 million. Two other restructurings were carried out on July 6,
2009 and December 20, 2012 that related to changes in output targets and cancellation of
unused funds.

The Power Sector Technical Assistance Project (IDA-39130, IDA-H0920) was approved
on June 03, 2004 and closed on December 31, 2012, four years after the planned project
completion date of December 31, 2008. The final project cost was US$14.6 million,
contributed entirely by IDA (including US$8.60 million IDA Grant for Poorest Country)
against the planned amount of US$20.5 million which included a Borrower contribution
of US$5.5 million. In the end, there was no contribution from the Borrower.

The Power Sector Development Policy Credit (IDA-44360) was approved on June 17,
2008 and closed as planned on March 31, 2009. The planned Credit of US$120 million
was fully disbursed.

Together, the projects addressed priority needs of the country’s energy sector with the
overall objective of raising levels of social development and economic growth in the
country. The RERED project aimed to increase access to electricity in rural areas. The
Technical Assistance Project sought to improve the government’s capacity for
formulating power sector policies, industry institutional structures, and a gas supply
strategy needed for a balanced development of Bangladesh’s power sector. The
Development Policy Credit focused on enhanced governance and accountability, and on
financial stability in the sector that would lead to better and more sustainable service
provision.

IEG considered several factors in choosing the above set of projects for assessment.
Foremost, the World Bank has a long and continuous involvement in Bangladesh’s
energy sector going back over two decades. Despite significant efforts by the
Government, especially over the last decade, the country lags behind in providing
                                            viii


electricity access to its population. The lack of access is particularly high in rural areas,
even when compared with other countries in the South Asia Region. In this context,
examining the Bank’s role and effectiveness in supporting Bangladesh’s power sector can
provide valuable feedback for future engagement in the country as well as in similar
country situations. The three projects that are assessed in this report overlapped in time,
and complemented each other by covering policy and technical assistance to the energy
sector, and provision of electricity infrastructure. The findings and lessons from this
assessment will be an important input to the forthcoming IEG evaluation of the World
Bank Group’s Support for Electricity Access.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Documents, Implementation Completion and Results Reports, legal agreements, project
files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, documents, memoranda and working
papers. An IEG field mission visited Bangladesh during December 2013. Discussions
were held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in Dhaka, officials of the government
and various electricity sector institutions in Dhaka, a mini-grid operator, and a
representative of a consumer forum. The planned site visits could not be carried out
because of the prevailing security situation in Bangladesh.

The mission expresses its appreciation for the generous time and attention given by the
Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the mission is in Annex C.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report were sent to government officials and
implementing agencies, and no comments were received from the government.
                                               ix


Summary
Bangladesh has experienced sustained growth in recent years, but is facing widening
deficits in the provision of electricity and other infrastructure services, as demand for
them grows at a faster rate than investments. In 2012, the country ranked 134th out of
144 countries on the quality of electricity supply, which is seen as one of the most
problematic obstacles to doing business in Bangladesh.

The Government has targeted universal access to electricity by the year 2021. In
comparison, only 62 percent of Bangladesh’s population had access to electricity in 2013,
with a wide disparity between urban areas (90 percent) and rural areas (43 percent), and
about 13 million rural households without electricity. Even those with access to
electricity routinely experience supply disruptions. The dispersed nature of rural
settlements, especially in the delta and hilly regions make the extension of the electricity
grid to these areas difficult and expensive.

The Government’s plans for addressing the generation shortages and to increase access to
electricity call for energy conservation, load management, adopting grid and off-grid
electrification approaches to extend electricity services, promoting private sector
investment in short and longer-term power supply measures, and improving sector
governance and efficiency.

The financial sustainability of the sector is under great strain as increases in retail tariffs
have not kept pace with the bulk supply tariffs. Government subsidies to the power
sector have increased from US$85 million in FY2007 to US$640 million in FY2013. In
recent years, investors appear to be discouraged by political turmoil and uncertainty
surrounding political transition, labor unrest in the prominent readymade garment sector,
banking scams, and a lack luster global economy.

On the positive side, off-grid electrification is expected to cover about 30 million of the
population by 2016 (about 18percent of population), up from about 15 million in 2013.
The payment collection performance of the sector overall has been remarkable with
accounts receivable less than 2 months of sales equivalent.

While the impressive off-grid expansion in Bangladesh still offers potential to expand
electricity access to rural areas, overall sustainable development of, and benefits from,
the sector could still primarily depend upon extending the grid to its feasible limits;
moving towards a more remunerative tariff structure; improving governance and
efficiency; and pursuing a least cost expansion of electricity generation while providing
for a supportive environment for much needed long term investments by private sector.

World Bank Assistance and Strategy

The World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategies (CPSs) over the last decade and
more have duly recognized the energy sector’s role and importance for country’s
development agenda and also the key issues that need to be addressed in the sector. The
World Bank has a long and diverse engagement with the electricity sector in Bangladesh
covering investment lending, risk guarantees, policy support, and technical advice. Since
                                             x


1989, the World Bank has provided about US$1.1 billion in support to project costs, and
developmental expenditure totaling US$4.4 billion. A detailed list of World Bank
activities in Bangladesh’s electricity sector is provided in Annex B.

Assessment of Project Outcomes

This Bangladesh Energy Cluster PPAR covers three projects which overlapped in their
implementation periods: Rural Electricity and Renewable Energy Development (RERED)
Project (2002-2013); Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project (2004-
2013); and Power Sector Development Policy Credit (2008-2009).

The projects were also interlinked in their overall objectives and the means to achieve
them. The RERED project was focused on expanding electricity access - both grid-based
and off-grid – for delivering social and economic outcomes. These outcomes were
underpinned by the Technical Assistance Project and the Development Policy Credit,
which addressed the broader power sector financial, governance, regulatory, and other
institutional issues. Specifically, the objectives of the three projects were as below:

•   The Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (RERED) Project
    sought to raise levels of social development and economic growth by increasing
    access to electricity in rural areas. It also worked to reduce atmospheric carbon
    emissions by overcoming market barriers for the use of renewable energy.

•   The Power Sector Development TA project aimed at a balanced development of
    Bangladesh’s power sector by improving government capacity to put in place power
    sector policies, industry structures, regulation, and a gas supply strategy; it also
    sought to prepare and secure financing for at least two power sector investment
    projects that would then be efficiently implemented.

•   The Power Sector Development Policy Credit sought better and more sustainable
    electricity service provision through supporting a subset of the country’s reform plan
    for financial, regulatory, institutional, and governance aspects and improving private
    investment in generation.

Summarized in the following sections are the assessment of the relevance of each
project’s objectives and design, development outcomes, risks to the sustainability of the
development outcomes, and the performance of the Bank and Borrower.

The Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (RERED) Project

The RERED project made a notable contribution to social and economic outcomes in
rural areas by extending access to electricity through off-grid Solar Home Systems
(SHS), supplemented by progress on extending the electricity grid. Areas covered by off-
grid Solar Home Systems saw significant increases in study times for both boys and girls,
and a greater number of children completing schooling. Household appliances such as
fans, and television sets began to be used; for example half of all SHS users were found
to have a television. Lighting contributed to a better sense of security for women,
                                             xi


increasing their mobility, and television has helped women improve their knowledge of
health and environmental issues, apart from improving general awareness. An impact
assessment study for the grid-based expansion found a 21 percent increase in household
incomes in the project area, and a net income increase of BDT215 billion per annum for
commercial enterprises. The effort to jump-start the use of compact fluorescent bulbs to
improve energy efficiency helped in spreading awareness of the product.

The most prominent output attributable to the project was the installation of about 1.24
million Solar Home System units – a scale that far exceeded original targets. This task
was carried out by the implementing agency Infrastructure Development Corporation
Limited (IDCOL), which worked through several grassroots partnership organizations
and demonstrated the feasibility of an ownership model by which beneficiaries paid for a
substantial portion of the asset in affordable instalments. The extension of the rural grid
added about 657,000 new connections. Together, the off-grid and grid efforts provided a
population of between 9 and 10 million with access to electricity.

Separately, a pilot effort under the project on stand-alone mini-grids yielded few tangible
results, mainly due to lack of clear policy and incentives. The project also helped to
jump-start the use of Compact Fluorescent Lamps in both urban and rural areas as an
important means of improving energy efficiency.

The relevance of the project’s objectives is rated high before and after the project was
restructured, given the potential developmental benefits from improving electricity access
in rural areas, and from improving efficiency of electricity usage in the country. The
relevance of the initial project design is rated high with its broad reliance on both grid
and off-grid expansion to improve electricity access to yield economic and social benefits
for rural areas. The relevance of design after project restructuring is rated substantial
given the partial integration of the electricity efficiency effort with that of improving
access. Efficiency is high rated prior to restructuring from the favorable economic rates
of return and cost-effective nature of operations; while it is rated substantial following
restructuring duel to the large share of unusable CFLs among the total number that were
distributed. Overall Development Outcome (based on the guidelines for restructured
projects) is rated highly satisfactory based on the significant social and economic
outcomes from grid and off-grid electrification, while noting the scope for better
performance in the mini-grid pilot and CFL distribution efforts. As the deployment of
Solar Home Systems took on a momentum of its own, the Bank was quick to support this
trend through additional financing on a vastly higher scale. The Bank’s performance is
rated satisfactory. Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory as the Government
provided crucial support and considerable autonomy to IDCOL to chart its own course
and to secure the confidence of its financiers, partnership organizations and beneficiaries.
The risk to development outcome is considered moderate, as IDCOL, notwithstanding its
commendable performance so far, faces an ambitious goal of nearly doubling its current
achievement over the next three years, and a less favorable cost structure as it reaches out
to poorer and more dispersed beneficiaries.
                                             xii



The Power Sector Development TA project

This project helped improve the capacity of the Power Cell in the Ministry of Power,
Energy and Mineral Resources for sector planning, analytical work and dealing with
technical matters. Though attribution is difficult, this technical assistance may have
played a role in supporting a ‘balanced development’ of the power sector, which during
the project period (2004-2013) saw an increase in electricity access from 35 percent to
about 62 percent; an increase in generation capacity from 3,622MW in 2004 to 9,500
MW; a reduction of systems losses from about 20.0 percent to 1.3 percent; and a drop in
accounts receivable from 6.45 months to 2.21months.

The Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC) became functional during the
project period; has executed some tariff increases for electricity and gas in recent years;
and is trying to involve and educate the public on the need for remunerative energy
prices. However, BERC is increasingly seen to be constrained by undue political and
bureaucratic interference in its staffing and decision-making, and lack of financial
autonomy, limiting its scope for playing an objective role as a regulator and protector of
the consumer interest.

The project helped prepare six investment proposals in power generation, transmission,
distribution, energy efficiency; and gas transmission and distribution. Among them
financing cold be secured only for the Siddhirganj Peaking Power Plant, while the South
Zone Power Distribution Corporation proposal was held back due lack of progress in
corporatizing the entity. The remaining four proposals stalled because of the Bank’s
decision to suspend financing large infrastructure projects due to broader governance
issues.

The project objectives are rated highly relevant to the issues facing Bangladesh’s
electricity sector. The relevance of design is also rated high with planned inputs being
logically linked to the expected outcomes. Efficiency is rated modest mainly due to the
project implementation period being nearly twice the original plan, despites several
complementary project activities by the Bank as well as other active multilaterals and bi-
laterals covering several common sector issues. Overall Development outcome is rated
moderately unsatisfactory with the overall goal of balanced development of the sector
being undercut by the poor prospects for financial sustainability as discussed in the
context of the Development Policy Credit below; the sector regulator BERC yet to
display the independence and competence to gain credibility with all relevant
stakeholders; and lack of sufficient progress in respect of implementing two planned
power sector investment projects. The risk to development outcome is rated substantial
as the sector’s financial situation remains constrained by high supply costs and un-
remunerative tariffs, together with the lack of private investment in power generation,
and a weak regulator. The Bank’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory for its
attempts to maintain the dialogue with the Government for making progress towards the
project objectives, while the Borrower’s performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory
for not being proactive in augmenting power supply and improving the regulatory
process.
                                             xiii



The Power Sector Development Policy Credit

This Credit operation displayed several shortcomings in pursuit of its objectives. The
corporatization of the South Zone Power Distribution Company was effectively rolled
back in the four years after Credit closure, nullifying earlier progress in constituting a
Board and electing a Chairman. The planned installation of automatic metering to
monitor inter-utility flows and consumption by large electricity consumers in the South
Zone has similarly not been taken up in a serious manner till now. The Bibiyana
independent power producer effort was stalled in the run up to elections four years ago,
and little progress has been made since then. The strategy prepared for improving the
functioning of the Rural Electrification Board continues to be under the consideration of
the government. The lone positive outcome of the Credit operation was that the
Government systematized the transfer of subsidy payments to the main utility,
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), which has ensured timely payments to
the power providers and improved the reliability of power supply within the existing
parameters. However, since Credit closure, the scale of subsidy has grown from BDT 9.9
billion in 2009-10, to BDT 63.6 billion in 2011-12, and BDT 44.1 billion in 2012-13,
clearly showing deterioration in the financial condition of the sector.

The Relevance of the Credit’s objectives and design are rated high. Bangladesh’s power
sector clearly faces major constraints in improving overall electricity service provision,
and financial sustainability and governance are priority areas for intervention to improve
the power situation. The overall development outcome of the project is rated
unsatisfactory with little progress towards solvency in the sector and a continuing high
level of government subsidies that may not be sustainable. The reversal of SZPDC
corporatization, and the politicization of BERC signal a backslide in respect of
governance with strong implications for financial sustainability. The Risk to
development outcome is rated high, as the government shows little movement towards
improving prospects for investment in power generation; is yet to give clear signals to
improve governance in the sector, and provide the space to the regulator to play its role
effectively. The Bank’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory considering its
continued dialogue with the government to adhere to the reform process, though it could
have leveraged its wide involvement in the sector to a greater extent in this regard.
Borrower’s performance is rate unsatisfactory due to its rollback in commitment to most
of the reform actions.

Some overall conclusions: The three operations assessed in this report show mixed
results, which are also reflected in the larger performance in the sector. Despite progress
in increasing access to electricity, large gaps are yet to be covered, especially in the rural
sector. Generation capacity greatly lags demand and there is little progress in attracting
badly needed private investment for this purpose. Tariffs continue to be significantly
short of cost recovery levels. While BPDB’s current role as a single buyer is considered
appropriate, its financial strategy and operational focus needs to be oriented towards
supporting long term investments by the private sector. Bangladesh has compromised the
Bank’s support for mobilizing long-term private investment in the generation sector due
to serious governance issues, which has come in the way of realizing a least cost
expansion of the sector which can lead to lower power generation costs and decreased
                                             xiv


need for government subsidies. This situation continues to mask the significant
achievements made in expanding rural and off-grid electrification country-wide, and
remains a critical constraint to further grid expansion and a significant fiscal risk. While
the off-grid expansion still offers potential to expand electricity access to rural areas,
sustainable development of the sector depends upon Bangladesh restoring the path of
least cost development in the sector. The Bank has a critical role to play in this regard
through broadening and deepening reforms in the sector.

Lessons

The following lessons are drawn from the experience with the three operations that have
been assessed in this report.

A. Off-grid household electrification can accelerate the benefits of “lighting” in a
   cost-effective manner, to populations that face uncertain waiting periods for
   grid-based electricity, or are unlikely to obtain grid-based electricity due to
   remote or inaccessible locations. The RERED project experience shows that
   potential beneficiaries can respond well to ownership-based Solar Household System
   schemes, and factor in the likelihood of gaining access to grid-based electricity at a
   later stage.

B. A public-private partnership model can efficiently deliver large-scale and
   dispersed off-grid electricity services, by deploying public funding through
   private sector stakeholders. Flexibility to adapt to market conditions and signals are
   the hallmarks of this model, while quality assurance and after-sales and maintenance
   service mechanisms are a necessity for acceptance by beneficiaries.

C. One-off technical assistance or credit support operations should be highly
   strategic, selective and practical in supporting policy and institutional issues of a
   complex nature. The PSD Technical assistance project took on an ambitious agenda
   covering power sector policies, regulation, industry structure and private sector
   participation, and struggled to get traction on any of these matters.

D. Similarly to Lesson C, One-off Credit operations cannot be expected to make
   headway on multiple policy fronts in a sector, especially if these issues have some
   commonalities with other sectors. The Power Sector Development Policy Credit
   single-tranche operation covered complex issues of governance and financial
   sustainability, which were difficult to resolve to any significant extent in a program of
   short duration.

E. Achieving broader social and economic outcomes from electricity access
   provision will primarily depend upon the pursuit of a least cost path for grid
   expansion backed by appropriate sector policies, complemented by off-grid
   electricity in the interim or permanently as needed. While Bangladesh has
   demonstrated impressive growth in Solar Home Systems and continues to pursue this
   path for improving access to electricity, it needs to keep in mind that off-grid
   electrification can inherently provide only a limited range of services to beneficiaries
   compared to grid-based electricity. Achieving broader social and economic outcomes
                                        xv


from electricity provision will primarily depend upon the pursuit of a least cost path
for grid expansion for which persisting policy and regulatory bottlenecks have to be
resolved.



                                                        Caroline Heider
                                                        Director-General
                                                        Evaluation
                                                  1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Bangladesh, with a population of about 150 million and a land area of 147,570
square kilometers (km), is among the most densely populated countries in the world.
Situated in a low-lying river delta, the country is vulnerable to natural disasters and
extremely sensitive to climate change impacts.

1.2     Despite several challenges, Bangladesh’s economy has proved to be remarkably
resilient, especially in the last decade. The country has maintained an average annual
GDP growth rate above 6 percent since FY2004 (Figure 1) raising GDP per capita
(current US$) from US$$353 in 2003 to US$752 in 2012. Poverty (people living on less
than $2 a day) fell from 49 percent in 2000 to 40 percent in 2005 and further to 32
percent in 2010. Bangladesh has achieved remarkable progress in its social indicators,
and is likely to achieve the Millennium Development Goals for poverty reduction, infant
and child mortality, primary enrolment and gender parity in education. 1




1.3     The recent sustained growth has generated higher demand for electricity,
transport, and telecommunication services and has contributed to widening infrastructure
deficits in Bangladesh as demand for infrastructure has risen faster than investments. The
country ranked 118th on the Global Competitiveness Index, out of 144 countries, and
134th on quality of electricity supply. On the Global Competitiveness Survey, the highest
number of respondents (20%) identified inadequate supply of infrastructure as the most
problematic factors for doing businesses, followed by corruption (16.7%), access to
financing (9.5%), and bureaucracy (9.5%). Inadequate supply of infrastructure,
corruption, access to finance and an inefficient government bureaucracy are the most
problematic obstacles to doing business in Bangladesh. 2

1.4    Private investment has remained stagnant or declined relative to public
investment in recent years. Public investment as a percent of GDP increased from 6.5 in
FY12 to 7.9 in FY13—the highest in Bangladesh’s history. On the other hand there has

1
    Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
2
    World Economic Forum: The Global Competitiveness Report 2012-2013.
                                                  2


been a decrease in private investment between FY2012 and FY2013 that is equivalent to
about one percentage point of GDP (Figure 2), after having stagnated at around 19.5
percent of GDP for several years. The magnitude of the decline in the private investment
rate is the greatest ever in a single fiscal year in Bangladesh, though not very large by
regional standards. Investors appear to have been discouraged by political turmoil and
uncertainty surrounding the impending political transition, labor unrest in the prominent
readymade garment sector, banking scams, and a lack luster global economy. 3

1.5     The burden of subsidy increased rapidly after FY10, with growing fuel and
electricity subsidy payments adding to continued high subsidies for agricultural inputs.
The total budgetary subsidy bill, which was around 1.5 percent of GDP in FY10, steadily
increased to 3.6 percent of GDP in FY13. Rapid growth in fuel, agriculture inputs, and
electricity subsidies contributed to this unsustainable situation. Total subsidy increased to
BDT 374 billion, against the original target of BDT 345 billion. The recent adjustments
in the electricity tariff have helped to reduce the Bangladesh Power Development Board
(BPDB)’s subsidy bill, thought the allocations for the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
(BPC) and the agriculture sector increased. 4

Sectoral and Institutional Context

1.6     About 62 percent of Bangladesh’s population had access to electricity in 2013,
(up from 32 percent in 2000) with a wide disparity between urban areas (90 percent) and
rural areas (43 percent), and about 13 million rural households without electricity. Per
capita consumption overall at 270 kWh per year as of 2013 is one of the lowest in the
world. The dispersed nature of rural settlements and areas in the delta and hilly regions
that are difficult to access make the extension of grid electrification difficult and
expensive. Even those with access to electricity experience supply disruptions because
the available generation capacity of 6,500 MW is considerably short of the peak demand
at 8,349 MW (2013). Rural areas suffer a disproportionate share of the electric supply
interruptions. Natural gas, which is the primary fuel for more than 75 percent of power
generation, is in short supply and several old power plants are operating considerably
below their rated capacity. Of the 9,500 MW of installed capacity, BPDB and the other
three generation companies own about 5,376 MW, while large independent power
producers (IPPs) and short-term rental plants comprise the remainder. 5 (Figure 3).




3
  Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
4
  Ministry of Finance, Government of Bangladesh
5
  Bangladesh Power Development Board
                                                         3



                                  Figure 3: Trend in Electricity Access




1.7     Electricity availability and the number of consumers have grown steadily over the
last decade. This has been particularly true for the rural electricity system, which has
seen electricity sales grow by about 11.7 percent annually over the last ten years and has
added an average of 425,000 new consumers annually over the last three years alone. By
2013, the grid system had about 14.7 million connections while the off-grid system about
3 million. This growth was driven primarily by: i) continuing reductions in system losses;
ii) moderate generation additions earlier in the decade; iii) more recent generation
capacity additions from short-term power plants, and iv) impressive off-grid growth. This
has been enabled by substantial investment, mostly from the Government, for extension
of the network, particularly in low-voltage systems to support new connections. Other
technical investments have not kept pace with the growth, however, and now
transmission and distribution load limits and deficits in generation capacity threaten
future expansion. 6 (Figure 4)

                             Figure 4: System-wide T&D Loss Rate




            Source: Bangladesh Power Development Board

6
    Bangladesh Power Development Board
                                                                4


1.8    Prior to 1996, Bangladesh had a vertically-integrated power system, with the
state-owned Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) handling generation, high-
voltage transmission, and urban transmission and distribution, and with the Bangladesh
Rural Electrification Board (BREB) handling rural transmission and distribution. Since
then, BPDB has gradually been unbundled into four generation companies, one
transmission company, and four urban distribution companies (Figure 5).

1.9     The Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources (MPEMR) is responsible
for policy making, planning and development of power sector through its Power
Division. The Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC) was set up in 2003
with the mandate to regulate power, gas and petroleum sectors.

1.10 The BPDB is the core part of the power sector structure, has significant
generation and distribution functions, and also performs the role of single-buyer for the
country, purchasing power from the other generation companies and IPPs and selling it to
the distribution utilities. The BPDB also carries out national generation and distribution
expansion plans and has responsibility to implement the approved plans by the
government. BPDB has supported significant addition to the country’s generation
capacity over the last decade, including short-term rental plants from private operators.

                      Figure 5: Institutional Structure of Bangladesh Power Sector
                                            Government and Regulatory Institutions
                  Bangladesh Energy Regulatory                   Ministry of Power, Energy
                       Commission (BERC)          Independent     and Mineral Resources
                                                                         (MPEMR)



                           Power Cell                                                                 Office of Energy Audit and
                                                                                                      Chief Electrical Inspector


                                   Power Sector Companies and State-Owned Enterprises
        Generation      BPDB (47%)        APSCL (11%)     NWPGC (5%)         EGCB (11%)        IPPs (33%)           Small IPPs



                                                 Power Grid Company Bangladesh (PGCB)
      Transmission                                      (An enterprise of BPDB)




       Distribution   BPDB (24%)         DPDC (18%)          DESCO (10%)          WZPDC (6%)           REB (42%)

Source: Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resourcs (MPEMR)


1.11 The transmission system is operated by a single transmission company, Power
Grid Company of Bangladesh (PGCB), which is an enterprise of BPDB, and owns and
operates 2,600 km of 230 kV lines and 6,000 km of 132 kV lines and transmits power
from the generation plants to the 70 PBSs under REB and the other distribution utilities.
The Power Grid Corporation of Bangladesh has a sound governance structure, with a
                                                   5


Board of Directors that provides oversight to a professional management that runs the
company’s day-to-day operations. 7

1.12 On the distribution side, 42 percent of electricity is distributed through the rural
distribution system. About 30 percent is supplied to Dhaka, the capital city, by two
corporatized distribution companies (Dhaka Electric Supply Company and Dhaka Power
Distribution Corporation). The third corporate distribution company, the West Zone
Power Distribution Company Limited, supplies 6 percent, and the remaining 22 percent is
still supplied by BPDB’s distribution subsidiaries.

1.13 The rural electricity system is the responsibility of the Bangladesh Rural
Electrification Board (REB), a semi-autonomous body responsible for planning,
financing, and installation of the rural electrification network of the country. Once
constructed, responsibility for the distribution system is transferred to rural electricity
cooperatives (Palli Biddyut Samities, or PBSs), which provide retail service, as well as
operate and maintain the system, and are overseen by REB. Small IPPs supply a small
percentage of the rural system’s power directly to REB. The rural system currently
consists of about 270,000 km of distribution lines, managed by 70 PBSs, and accounts for
almost half of country’s power demand. The performance efficiency of REB is in sharp
contrast to that of the other two utilities operating in the country, Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB) and the Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA), which
together account for 75% of total electricity sales.

Sector planning and financial performance

1.14 The Government articulated a Vision and Policy Statement on Power Sector
Reforms in 2002, aiming at i) universal access by the year 2021 with improved reliability
and quality; ii) stabilizing the sector's financial status and increasing its efficiency; and
iii) operating the sector on commercial principles and increasing private sector
participation. The Government’s strategy was cast in a 3-year reform road map during
2007-08, which has further been updated through a Power System Master Plan of 2010. 8

1.15 To address the generation shortages and to increase access to electricity, the
Government has adopted a multi-pronged strategy in the power sector that includes
energy conservation, load management, adopting grid and off-grid electrification
approaches to extend electricity services, promoting private sector investment in short
and longer-term power supply measures, and improving sector governance and
efficiency. The Government has embarked upon an ambitious generation expansion plan
that envisages adding more than 11,000 MW to the national grid by the year 2018. As
part of that plan, a number of large gas-fired power plants have recently been awarded to
the private sector, and one large coal fired plant (1,320 MW) has been undertaken by the
public sector. These plants are facing delays due to challenges in reaching financial




7
    Bangladesh Power Development Board
8
    Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources, Government of Bangladesh. 2010.
                                                     6


closure, and as an interim measure, the Government has contracted over 2,300 MW of
plants run on liquid fuel for 3-to-5year terms. 9

1.16 Though these short-term plants help to reduce the power shortages, they are
expensive and have imposed a large financial burden on the power sector. The
Government handles this by subsidizing the gap between the bulk supply tariff that the
distribution utilities pay to BPDB and the price that BPDB pays to generate and purchase
power. Despite increasing the bulk supply tariff by a total of 80% in phases since
February 2011, the subsidy was BDT40 billion (US$550 million), BDT63 billion
(US$800 million), and BDT50 billion (US$640 million) in FY11, FY12, and FY13
respectively. In contrast, the power sector required only a US$85 million subsidy per
year from FY07 to FY09 and US$140 million in FY10. 10

1.17 Increases in retail tariff have not kept pace with the bulk supply tariff, causing a
financial burden to distribution utilities. Retail tariffs have been increased overall by 55
percent from FY10 to FY13. The collection performance of the sector overall has been
remarkable with accounts receivable less than two months of sales equivalent. This
provides a very important financial foundation for the Government to pursue reforms in a
sustained manner, including adjusting electricity tariffs and structure over the next years
to reach cost recovery levels, while at the same time phasing out high cost rental power
plants through a least cost expansion plan, as planned. The reach of off-grid
electrification is expected to double to 30 million people by 2016, from about 15 million
in 2013. 11

World Bank Assistance and Strategy

1.18 The World Bank has a long and diverse engagement with the electricity sector in
Bangladesh covering investment lending, risk guarantees, policy support and technical
advice. Since 1989, the World Bank has provided about US$1.1 billion to support
project costs and developmental expenditure totaling US$4.4 billion. A detailed list of
World Bank activities in Bangladesh’s electricity sector is provided in Annex B.

1.19 The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategies (CPSs) over the last decade duly
recognized the energy sector’s role and importance for country’s development agenda
and also the various key issues that needed to be addressed to improve sector
performance. The Bank’s sector strategy and assistance showed a proactive approach,
beginning with the sector reform discussions and options in 2001, supported by
ESMAP 12, and laid the foundations for expanded private sector investments in the power
generation segment, in addition to sustaining the rural electrification program. During
mid-2000s, the Bank sharpened the reform focus through policy notes 13 centered around

9
    Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources, Government of Bangladesh
10
     Ministry of Finance, Government of Bangladesh
11
     Ministry of Finance, Government of Bangladesh
12
     ESMAP Technical Paper 018, December 2001
13
 “Mitigating Bangladesh Power Crisis: Possible Response Options”, and “Bangladesh – Energy Policy
Note for the New Government”, World Bank notes, 2007
                                            7


improving the sector’s financial situation through reforms and restructuring options to be
implemented through actions and strategies over short-, medium- and long-term. The
actions included both power and gas sectors in view of the interdependent issues and
helped Bangladesh develop a detailed Power System Master Plan (2010), in addition to
various sub-sector studies and financial restructuring plan. The series of Sector
Investment Loans and Policy Credits, including the Power Sector Development Policy
Credit (2008), supported the sector reforms and development, in concert with
development partners such as ADB and JICA.

1.20 What follows is an assessment of a cluster of three energy sector projects in
Bangladesh – the Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development (RERED)
Project (2002-13), Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project (2004-13),
and the Power Sector Development Policy Credit (2008-09).
                                             8


2. Rural Electricity and Renewable Energy
Development (RERED) Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1     According to the original Development Credit Agreement 14, the project
development objective for this project was “to support the Borrower’s vision of attaining
a higher level of social development and economic growth by increasing access to
electricity in rural areas.”

2.2    Following additional financing and formal restructuring approved by the Board in
2011, the development objective was restated in the Financing Agreement 15 as “to
increase access to electricity in rural areas of the Recipient’s territory and help promote
more efficient energy consumption.”

2.3     Following the World Bank’s Harmonized Operational Policy and Corporate
Services (OPCS)-IEG Evaluation Guidelines for restructured projects, the project
development outcome is rated based on the outcome ratings before and after
restructuring, and weighted by amount of disbursement in the two stages.

2.4    The Global Objective of the Project, which remained unchanged, was to reduce
atmospheric carbon emissions by overcoming market barriers for renewable energy
development, including high implementation costs.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

2.5     Relevance of the original project development objectives is rated High. The
original project and global development objectives are in line with national priorities as
well as the Bank’s partnership strategy for the country at project appraisal as well as at
completion. The Government’s 2002 Vision and Policy Statement on Power Sector
Reforms aimed to provide the entire country with electricity service by 2021,
commercialize the sector, attract private investment, and improve financial viability.
These goals are also emphasized in the country’s Three-Year Roadmap for Power Sector
reform.

2.6     The Bank’s 2000 Country Assistance Strategy emphasized the importance of
rapidly increasing electricity access, undertaking reforms in the electricity sector and
leveraging community institutions and micro-credit. The project’s original objectives
remain consistent with the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy for FY11-14,
which emphasizes increased infrastructure provision, and access.



14
     Dated July 16, 2002
15
     Dated November 24, 2011
                                            9


2.7     Relevance of the project development objectives after restructuring is also rated
High. The restructured objective effectively retained the original objective, and added
the objective of promoting more efficient energy consumption. The relevance of the new
objective is underlined by Bangladesh’s Energy Conservation Act of 2008 which placed
emphasis on improving energy efficiency, as well as the Bank’s current Country
Partnership Strategy for FY11-14, which stressed the need to increase efficiency in the
energy and other infrastructure sectors.

DESIGN

2.8    The project’s original components and the activities introduced by additional
financing in 2009 and 2011 are listed below:

   A1: Rural Electrification System Expansion, Intensification, and Rehabilitation
       (at appraisal: US$264.6 million; at completion: US$306.0 million): To facilitate
       the handover of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)-operated
       power systems to Rural Electrification Board (REB) to increase the efficiency
       of supply and reduce overall costs of electrification.
       Added through Additional Financing in 2009 (US$19.0 million): Provide
       financing to REB to close the funding gap that arose due to exchange rate
       fluctuation that occurred between the time REB issued contracts for renovation
       of taken-over lines in 2008 and the time those contracts came due in 2009.
   A2: REB Technical Assistance (included in component A1 above): To address
       REB and 45 Palli Bidyut Samitis’ (PBS or Village Electricity Co-operatives)
       institutional capacity needs for socio-economic impact monitoring and
       evaluation, financial restructuring, environmental safeguard compliance, and
       poverty reduction aspects of electricity provision.
   B1: REB Solar Program (at appraisal: US$8.8 million; at completion: US$4.5
       million): To help establish a commercial framework for the off-grid lighting
       market in Bangladesh by supporting REB and PBS to develop a fee-for-service
       SHS program supplied to 14,000 off-grid households.
   B2: REB Solar Technical Assistance (included in component B1 above): To
       support the REB Solar Program, for a) market development and capacity
       building for PBSs, helping them to market, sell and service SHSs b)
       development of a quality assurance program to establish and monitor technical
       standards for SHS components and systems and c) monitoring of the SHS
       program.
   C1: IDCOL Renewable Energy Sub-loans (at appraisal: US$24.9 million; at
       completion: US$473.5 million): To provide the Infrastructure Development
       Company Limited (IDCOL) with project development support and financing to
       offer loans and grants for renewable energy development. This component
       aimed to provide SHS to 50,000 households through SHS employing a micro-
       finance-based, direct sales program. The SHSs would be supplied and serviced
       by private companies in partnership with multilateral financing agencies and
       NGOs.
                                                   10


          Added through Additional Financing in 2009 (US$196.0 million) and in
          2011 (US$253.0 million): Scale up SHS program, and provide technical
          assistance to support a) quality assurance of SHS though photovoltaic (PV) and
          SHS lab and field testing / inspection.
     C2: IDCOL Technical Assistance (included in component C1 above): This
         component was designed to support IDCOL's internal capacity and broaden its
         scope of activities by a) supporting technology promotion and market
         development activities b) building administration capacity with a focus on
         fiduciary and safeguard compliance; c) increasing monitoring and evaluation
         capacity and activities; and d) supporting renewable energy development of
         wind, hydro and biomass.
     D: Energy Efficiency Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) (at appraisal:
         US$15.0 0 million; at completion: US$14.2 million): This new component was
         introduced through Additional Financing in 2009 to deploy 10.5 million energy-
         efficient CFLs in exchange for incandescent lamps to help reduce peak demand
         under the first-phase of the Efficient Lighting Initiative of Bangladesh
         Program. 16

Implementation Arrangements

2.9     The project was implemented by REB and IDCOL. REB was responsible for
rural electrification through grid expansion, intensification and rehabilitation activities.
REB also implemented a fee-for-service SHS program (where systems would be installed
and owned by REB, and consumers would pay a monthly fixed fee for using the systems)
through PBSs. The Energy Efficiency component involving distribution of Compact
Fluorescent Lamps was implemented by REB.

2.10 IDCOL anchored the SHS effort by promoting sales of SHS to households
through microfinance by selected Participating Organizations drawn from NGOs/
microfinance institutions/private entities. Refinancing support was provided to the
partnership organizations covering up to 70 percent to 80 percent of the micro-credit
extended to households for SHS purchase. IDCOL also provided grant support to reduce
the capital cost of SHS, to make the technology more affordable for rural and low-income
households. Technical assistance was also provided to partnership organizations and
communities to overcome social and marketing barriers.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

2.11 Relevance of the original project design is rated High. Rural electrification
greatly improves the quality of life. 17 Lighting alone brings benefits such as increased
study time and improved study environment for school children, extended hours for small
businesses, and greater security. Its second most common use is for television, which

16
  A donor-funded project with the purpose of removing barriers to the large scale use of CFL’s by
distributing 27 million CFL bulbs and collecting an equivalent amount of incandescent bulbs from about
12.5 million households in Bangladesh, urban as well as rural.
17
 IEG. 2008. The Welfare Impact of Rural Electrification: A Reassessment of the Costs and Benefits
An IEG Impact Evaluation.
                                             11


brings both entertainment and information. The original project design appropriately
sought to improve electricity access through additional connections while reducing
system losses to increase available power in the system, so as to deliver the outcomes of
improved social development and economic growth. Providing additional connections
was pursued through expanding and rehabilitating the grid network; as well as providing
off-grid SHS and mini-grids in targeted rural areas where the grid was not likely to reach
in the near future, or in areas that are economically unviable or inaccessible to the grid
such as hilly areas or islands.

2.12 The project design tapped the existing capacity and experience of the REB and
the PBSs primarily for extending the grid to rural areas, while leveraging the country’s
vibrant network of NGOs and microfinance institutions through the organizational
strength of IDCOL. Therefore, REB/PBSs would engage primarily in implementing the
grid-based components of the project, and secondarily the fee-for-service models for off-
grid SHS systems. As discussed in detail under ‘implementation experience’ below, the
responsibility for off-grid SHS was shifted almost exclusively to IDCOL operating
through its partnership organizations, using an ownership model. There were no
exogenous factors that were likely to affect the project design.

2.13 Relevance of the restructured project design is rated Substantial. The revised
project design resulted from the introduction of the objective (with the additional
financing in 2011) of improving the efficiency of electricity consumption in the country.
Besides being desirable by itself, this objective complemented the effort for improving
supply side efficiency through reducing systems losses that was already included as an
element at appraisal. Increased efficiency in use of electricity can release some
generation capacity that can potentially improve the availability of electricity for greater
use in rural areas, which are typically more likely to experience power shortages.
Therefore the new electricity efficiency objective was also consonant with the larger
objective of improving social development and economic growth by increasing access to
electricity in rural areas. The electricity efficiency drive was not a broad sector-wide
effort, and was limited to the distribution of Compact Fluorescent Lights (CFLs) to
replace incandescent bulbs as a means of delivering quick savings in electricity
consumption. A more integrated approach at the appraisal stage might have enhanced
the complementarity of the new objective and – in retrospect – earlier planning may have
helped avoid the difficulties that were faced during implementation in this respect.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

2.14 The Project was approved on June 25, 2002, but credit effectiveness took six
more months due to issues that arose in the handover of the first package of lines from
BPDB to REB under the grid component (Component i). Handover of subsequent
packages was also similarly delayed. These delays are attributed by the project team to
resistance from vested interests within BPDB; from some consumers that had fallen into
a non-payment pattern and feared collection efforts from REB; and discrepancy between
the length of distribution lines that were included in BPDB’s plans and those that actually
existed on the ground. The issues related to distribution lines were ultimately resolved.
But the grid component faced further delays due to a moratorium imposed by the
Government in 2007 on new grid connections in the face of power supply constraints.
                                            12


Mainly as a result of these factors, the project was extended by a year from June 30, 2008
to June 30, 2009.

2.15 The project was extended for a second time to December 31, 2009, to allow for
the preparation and submission of an additional financing request for US$130 million to
support the fast growing SHS component. This additional finance also included savings
resulting from the depreciation of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) against the US dollar.
The project was extended for a third time in December 2009 till project completion in
December 2012 to allow the SHS work program to be completed. Meanwhile, in April
2011, a reallocation of US$24.57 million was made from the SHS component to meet the
funding needs for the second-phase of CFLs as requested by the Government. A second
round of additional finance for US$172 million for the expanded needs of the SHS
component was approved in August 2011. Finally, in December 2012, the project was
restructured by cancelling US$54.91 million (SDR 35.78 million) due to savings
achieved in the SHS component and the scaling down of the CFL component.

2.16 The scale of the IDCOL off-grid SHS program proved to be much larger than
originally anticipated. The program started with five NGOs as IDCOL’s partnership
organizations with an original target of installing 50,000 SHS. As of now, there are 49
partnership organizations collectively installing about 60,000 SHS per month under a
competitive business model. The Bank’s continued support helped to mobilize wide-
spread support from other donors, including the Global Partnership of Output-Based Aid
(GPOBA), the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the United
States Agency for International Development, KfW, GIZ, and JICA.

2.17 A parallel effort by REB using a fee-for-service approach for SHS did not fare
well as it was not cost-effective for the REB/PBSs to undertake bill collection or perform
maintenance in dispersed locations. Also a lack of ownership of the asset resulted in
neglect and even abuse of the systems by the users.

2.18 The CFL component for nation-wide distribution of 10.5 million CFLs involved
four urban utilities and 15 rural PBSs, and proved to be a challenging task. Notably, an
ambitious plan was carried out to distribute about 5 million CFLs (nearly half of the total
number) in a single day to create a demonstration effect. However, a post-installation
survey and sample life-time testing of CFLs indicated a 34 percent lamp failure rate and a
significantly lower lamp life than specified. This was despite the CFLs having passed all
pre-shipment tests. It was found that the test reports accompanying the bids were for
standard lamps, and had little relevance to the customized specifications for the product
that was being procured under the project (longer lamp life, higher power factor, larger
voltage fluctuations tolerance etc.). Procurement of the second phase of the CFLs had
been initiated before the quality issues in the first phase emerged, but none of the
contracts could be signed, either due to non-submission of performance guarantees or, in
some cases, submission of fake performance guarantees for some lots. Eventually, the
second phase of the CFLs had to be abandoned under the project, with the allocations
cancelled before the project closing date.

2.19 Safeguards: The project was placed in category B under the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguards and triggered the policies for environmental
                                            13


assessment and involuntary resettlement. Expected environmental impacts related to
temporary and minor land disturbances arising out of laying new distribution lines,
construction of substations, and small-scale gas or diesel-based power generation.
Environmental impacts from SHS installations were expected to be minor with the
exception of disposal of used batteries.

2.20 REB and IDCOL jointly prepared an Environmental and Social Assessment
Framework to form the basis for undertaking sub-project-specific environmental plans.
REB and IDCOL also made provision for public consultation on sub-projects and
components financed under the project. An updated version of the framework has been
prepared and publicly disclosed under the follow-up RERED II project. IDCOL has
created a full-time Environment and Social Safeguards Management Unit. IDCOL now
has full-time environmental staff members working with partner organizations and
battery manufacturers/suppliers to raise awareness about the importance of environmental
and social safeguards. IDCOL staff visit all battery recycling plants on a half-yearly basis
for ensuring environmental compliance. No significant issues arose for involuntary
resettlement as the project generally restricted itself to unencumbered government
property or land that was made available by the community.

2.21 The project helped to enhance the standards for battery suppliers to the SHS
program by requiring them to adopt ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS (Occupational Health
& Safety Management Systems) 18001:2007 standards. At the end of the project, all 13
battery manufacturers and all 3 recycling facilities in the country became ISO and
OHSAS compliant.

2.22 The Bank mission in April/May 2012 noted the lack of a national guideline on
safe disposal of CFLs. These guidelines are now being developed under the follow-up
RERED II project with a team of international and local consultants, and are required to
be in place before the distribution of the CFLs financed under the project can commence.
RERED II also provides for technical assistance on ensuring safe disposal of expired
CFLs financed under the project.

2.23 Financial Management. Shortcomings in financial management occurred in
2008 from REB's failure to appoint an auditor, which was corrected in 2009 when the
auditor was in place and REB had taken corrective measures to remove a qualified
observation from its project audit report. Further qualified observations arose in 2010,
but were gradually addressed over the next three years, particularly by making their
satisfactory resolution a condition for disbursement for the energy efficient lighting
(CFL) component under RERED II.

2.24 IDCOL faced legacy issues in transitioning from a manual to a computerized
system for generating financial management reports. The project team informed the
mission that the computerized system is being made functional under the RERED II
project and will help reduce/eliminate the scope for manipulation and error.

2.25 There were shortcomings in the procurement process in 2008 and beyond - due to
delays by REB in concluding several procurement packages related to the construction of
new lines and connecting new consumers (this was partly due to the Government
                                             14


moratorium on new connections, given the prevailing power supply shortage). The
related funds were then reallocated to the IDCOL component to support renewable
energy development in 2009. Procurement was affected again in 2010 due to delays by
REB in concluding the first-phase CFL procurement and several complaints of alleged
corruption received during the procurement process. The second-phase procurement of
CFLs was initiated in late 2010, but due to various issues (including issues related to the
submission of fraudulent performance guarantees by the winning bidder), the
procurement could not be completed and the second phase was cancelled.

2.26 Procurement of SHS was the responsibility of IDCOL’s partnership organizations,
which are expected to follow established commercial practices. IDCOL officers
informed the mission that stringent standards, including a five-year warranty for batteries
are strongly enforced. SHS warranty requirements in Bangladesh are among the longest
and most honored in the world, while SHS costs remain some of the lowest in the world.
IDCOL’s management informed the mission that as a result of these strictly enforced
quality assurance measures, customer satisfaction has been consistently high. The task
team informed the mission that a recent third party monitoring exercise had rated
customer satisfaction at 97 percent.

Achievement of the Objectives
Original Objective. Raise levels of social development and economic growth by
increasing access to electricity in rural areas. Rated High.

2.27 The project resulted in several significant outputs in respect of grid extension,
provision of SHS on a fee-for-service as well as an ownership basis, and to a lesser
extent, mini-grids. Technical assistance under the project contributed to building
capacity in technical and administrative areas in entities engaged in the electricity access
effort. Favorable economic and social outcomes for the beneficiaries can be attributed to
these outputs to a significant extent on the basis of impact studies carried out during the
project as discussed in the following sections on outcomes and outputs under this
objective.

Outputs

2.28 Grid extension. Between 2002 and 2009, REB made 656,802 new grid
connections, against an original target of 700,000. REB fell somewhat short of the target
due to a moratorium on additional grid connections ordered by the Government in 2006,
due to prevailing generation constraints and large-scale load shedding in the country.

2.29 System Loss reduction in grid. Between 2002 and 2009, REB took over 11,295
km of lines from BPDB and carried out rehabilitation to reduce losses from an overall
average of 59.9 percent in 31 PBS in 2002 to 13.7 percent in 2009, against an overall
target of 20 percent. This loss reduction effectively increased availability of electricity at
a time of wide-spread load-shedding and helped more reliable electricity access for PBSs’
consumers.
                                            15


2.30 Provision of SHS on fee-for-service basis by REB. REB provided SHS to 11,796
households on a fee-for-service basis against an original target of 14,000 households,
which accounted for about 3 percent of the initial project cost. It proved difficult for
REB to provide maintenance services to these dispersed units in a cost-effective manner.
This mission was informed that many of the installed units are expected to have fallen
into disuse due to lack of interest on the part of users who had no ownership of the asset.
Also, the REB effort for SHS was greatly overtaken by the promotion of SHS by IDCOL
on an ownership model.

2.31 Installation of SHS by IDCOL. A total of 1,231,720 million SHS were installed
by IDCOL with support from this Project. At appraisal, the target for the distribution of
SHS by IDCOL was 50,000, corresponding to only 8 percent of the initial project outlay.
By taking advantage of the falling costs of solar PV and the un-utilized loan amount in
the grid component, the number of SHS installed rose to 236,000 by 2009. Two rounds
of additional finance helped increase the project target to 994,000 SHS, and this was
exceeded at project completion through further cost savings. Together with support from
the Bank and other development partners, IDCOL achieved installation of a total of 1.88
million by December 2012, bringing electricity to an additional 6 percent of the nation’s
population. IDCOL management indicated to this mission that they were on stream to
reach 3 million SHS installations by end-2013.

2.32 Developing Partnership organizations. IDCOL has helped mentor and develop
49 partnership organizations. Technical quality assurance of installations is overseen by
a committee headed by the head of department of electrical engineering in Bangladesh
Institute of Engineering and Technology.

2.33 Mini-grids by IDCOL. IDCOL’s experience with renewable energy mini-grids
faced challenges both in terms of implementation and results. Of the three mini-grids
that were attempted, only one was reported to be in commercial operation. The team was
briefed by the owner of this mini-grid facility, the ‘Sandweep mini-grid’ which is a 100
KW solar-cum-40 KW diesel backup hybrid located on a battery have a lifetime of 20
years and 10 years respectively. Electricity is currently sold to 201 consumers including
158 commercial users. The tariff charged to consumers is BDT 32 (about 40 US cents)
per kWh, six times higher than the average grid-based tariff of BDT 5.9 (about 7 US
cents) per kWh in Bangladesh. The mini-grid operator informed the mission that the
willingness and capacity to pay was high on the island on which this facility is situated
due to established commercial activities as well as remittances as a source of income for
many households in the area. Prior to this mini-grid, most of the island relied on
individual diesel generators with higher operating costs relative to the mini-grid. Most of
these generators are retained by the owners as a backup. Factors that worked in favor of
the mini-grid were a 50 percent capital cost grant from KfW, and exemption from tariff
control (which applies to units below 1 MW capacity as per current regulations). If and
when the grid is extended to the island, the mini-grid will no longer be commercially
viable. In general, the viability of mini-grids in Bangladesh depends crucially on capital
subsidy for entrepreneurs, and tariff subsidy for consumers where the capacity to pay is
low. Also, mini-grid operators would require guaranteed off-take at remunerative prices
in case the grid is extended to the area. Discussions with the concerned ministry officials
                                                   16


do not suggest any new policy initiatives in this respect. 18 The follow-up RERED II
project includes a component for mini-grids. But in the absence of a clear policy in this
matter, it is unlikely that there will be much traction in the market for mini-grids.

2.34 The issues raised by the mini-grid operator were corroborated by the mission’s
discussion with the task team. The team added that renewable energy mini-grids were
implemented as a pilot for proof of concept under RERED, and the lessons learned from
these pilots were incorporated in the design of RERED II, which includes a component
for mini-grids. The implementation of such projects will be expanded under RERED II.
The task team also stated that the Bank wanted both AC and DC technologies to be tested
for mini-grids before committing a design. This process has taken some time and the
tests of a DC pilot are awaited.

2.35 A 2004 ESMAP study “Integrating Gender in Energy Provision Case Study of
Bangladesh” takes note of REB’s requirement for all PBSs to employ only women in
their billing departments. In the power industry, traditionally dominated by men,
employing women exclusively in the PBS billing departments provides a unique
employment opportunity for rural women. Women receive training and improve their
skillset as PBS billing departments transitioned from manual to computerized records.

Technical assistance

2.36 Under the project, both REB and IDCOL received technical assistance to help
build administrative and project implementation capacity. The project team informed the
mission that REB has built information technology infrastructure in the PBSs and
streamlined environment management practices and procedures. REB has also developed
a monitoring and evaluation framework and a methodology for evaluating socio-
economic and gender related impacts on electrification projects and used this to measure
the impacts under the RERED project.

2.37 The project provided significant capacity building to IDCOL in financial
management, planning, and technical issues, and the impact of this assistance was
demonstrated by IDCOL’s performance in successfully managing the growing renewable
energy program. IDCOL management confirmed the added value from the Bank’s
support. Some technical assistance activities introduced during the additional financing
in 2011 (establishment of SHS testing facility and commercial financing study) were
delayed and are being implemented under RERED II.

2.38 There was no progress on a plan to establish a special unit in REB to provide
continuous socioeconomic monitoring through surveys and measures of physical
achievements and socioeconomic benefits. While it is noted that REB successfully
commissioned impact evaluation studies in 2005 and 2010, the failure to mainstream
socio-economic monitoring within the organization is a shortcoming that needs to be
addressed.

18
  In its memo dated June 19, 2014, the Task Team adds that “in the last couple of months, there has been
progress in establishing a compensation mechanism where the mini-grid operator would be compensated if
grid was extended to the mini-grid area within 5 years of establishment of the mini-grid.”
                                                 17


Outcomes

2.39 Two impact evaluations were carried out for the REB grid components, one in
2006 19 and the other in 2010 20, and an impact evaluation was carried out for the IDCOL
SHS component in 2012. 21 The REB study found positive impacts of grid electrification
on household incomes, use of technology in the home, women’s empowerment, and
study time for boys and girls. The SHS impact evaluation found a positive and
significant impact on study time and a correlation between those households with a
television, and health outcomes and impact on women’s mobility, among others, as
discussed below.

2.40 As in all impact evaluations studies, there were some limitations faced in
assessing the outcomes from project interventions. As noted in the 2010 impact study,
the presence of electricity and a better quality of life does not automatically mean
electricity as the cause and the quality of life as the outcome. To truly trace the effect of
participation in a project on a participating individual or household one must compare the
observed outcome with the outcome had the person/household not participated in the
project or program. Much of the discussion contained in the impact evaluations is
concerned with household level impact where grid and off-grid households are present in
adequate numbers. For commercial and industrial households, and especially for the
latter, the number of off grid units that could be used as control or comparison units was,
unfortunately, few. Because electrified and non-electrified units are very different types
of units, locating appropriate counterfactuals was inherently difficult. Another limitation
arose from the difficulty in quantifying benefits in monetary terms. In most cases, such
benefits had to be overlooked, resulting in an underestimation of the benefits. In other
cases, benefits may have been exaggerated or dramatized by respondents and proponents,
and therefore, overestimated.

Social outcomes

2.41 Study time in the evening went up by 21 minutes per day for boys and 12 minutes
per day for girls in the grid connected households (REB 2010 impact analysis) and by 10-
12 minutes for boys and girls in SHS households on average (2012 SHS impact
assessment); all compared to households without any electricity access. The SHS study
also found that boys and girls in SHS households have completed more schooling than
those without any electricity access. REB’s impact analysis found that grid-connected
households helped decrease illiteracy rates from 21 percent to 14 percent between 2005
and 2010, and the average number of years in school increased from 6.43 in 2005 to 6.86
in 2010.



19
 Rural Electrification Board 2006. Midterm Report: Socio-Economic Monitoring & Impact Evaluation of
Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Program,
20
 Rural Electrification Board 2010. Final Report: Follow-Up (Panel) Survey of Socio-Economic
Monitoring & Impact Evaluation of Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Program, 2010.
21
  Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies. 2012. Research Team: An Evaluation of the Impacts of
Solar Home Systems in Bangladesh.
                                             18


2.42 An increase in women’s mobility was reported and women reported feeling more
secure when traveling to health complexes, clinics, schools, learning centers, NGOs and
other places (REB 2010 impact analysis). The 2012 SHS impact analysis similarly found
increased mobility and increased feelings of security among female respondents.

2.43 Households with a new grid connection under the project began using electric
fans, television sets, , cassette players, irons and charging mobile phone batteries. (REB
2010 impact analysis). Half of the households with SHS were found to have a television
(2012 SHS impact assessment).

2.44 The SHS impact study found that SHS homes had statistically better
empowerment outcomes, specifically their mobility, general decision making and
economic decision making, than those households without SHSs. The 2010 REB study
showed that women were able to get more information about home and abroad through
watching television, and subsequently were more aware of reproductive health, children’s
health, family planning and other social (early marriage, dowry) and environmental
(forestry) issues.

2.45 Although there were no significant differences in health outcomes between the
members of SHS households and that of non-SHS households, having a TV in the SHS
households seems to make a significant difference in health outcomes for women.
Among the SHS households with a television set, girls were about 4 percentage points
less likely to suffer from respiratory and gastro-intestinal diseases than their counterparts
from SHS households without a television set. The study also found that contraceptive
prevalence was higher and recent fertility was lower among married women in
households with SHS that own a black and white television. The 2010 REB study
suggested that access to reliable mobile phone charging allowed women to communicate
with doctors in the case of emergency.

2.46 The project was expected to help provide access to arsenic-free clean water
through installing pumps from new electricity connections. Some pumps were installed,
but their impact was overtaken by alternative measures taken by the Government for a
nationwide arsenic testing program that helped distinguish safe wells from arsenic-
contaminated wells using color-coded markings.

Economic Outcomes

2.47 Increase in income of small commercial units. There were a total of 742,194 units
connected to the grid under the project by 2008. The commercial units among these
connections were predominantly in the service sector (shops, salons, restaurants). The
REB impact evaluation survey found that income increased by about BDT214.8 billion
per annum for commercial enterprises in the project area that had benefited from grid
electricity connections. For non-electrified commercial units, there was little change in
income over time, while for grid-electrified units, gross incomes rose by over 2.8 times
between 2005 and 2010. Overall, the impact survey suggests that electricity usage has
resulted in a positive and significant impact on income and productivity.
                                            19


2.48 Increase in household incomes and decreased expenditures on fuel. The REB
survey also showed that electrified households save money by using two liters less
kerosene per month compared to un-electrified households, translating to an average
monthly savings of BDT 136 (US$1.70). Users of SHS reported an average of 3.68 liters
of lower kerosene consumption per month than households without SHS, saving an
average of BDT 250 (US$3.15). Both grid and SHS users are able to save money by
charging mobile phones from SHS.

2.49 Employment creation in rural communities. IDCOL and each of its partnership
organizations have created employment for rural communities through the establishment
of the program. As of November 2012, IDCOL estimated that the SHS program had
helped create about 30,000 direct jobs and 50,000 indirect jobs. As an example, one of
the partnership organizations, Rural Services Foundation began in 2002 with one
employee and a small office in Dhaka. In 2012 it had 75 offices across Bangladesh and
employed over 300 people in rural areas while providing on-the-job training to
households purchasing SHS. Grameen Shakti, the largest partnership organization, with
a market share of more than 40%, is estimated to have created 10,000 jobs through their
SHS program. These employees cover equipment sales, installation and service, and
payment collection. A number of other partnership organizations including Grameen
Shakti are providing training to village women on assembling some SHS components;
some of these women are then becoming entrepreneurs, running their own units for
assembling SHS and providing maintenance services. (SHS Impact Assessment 2012).

Gender-related outcomes

2.50 A 2011 ESMAP publication “Integrating Gender Considerations into Operations”
recognized gender best-practice projects from around the world and highlighted RERED
project’s gender-informed design, noting that it included analysis of the likely impact on
women’s security, income generation opportunities and knowledge via access to radio
and television. The report also highlights the project’s indicators for measuring outcomes
for women and girls, such as the number of hours that girls study at night, access to news
by women, improved reproductive health and increased HIV/AIDS information and
awareness. This report is used to provide best practice in gender mainstreaming and
gender informed design, and RERED is held as a model for other operations to follow

Revised Objective 1a. To increase access to electricity in rural areas of the Recipient’s
territory. Rated High

2.51 This objective is for all practical purposes identical to the original objective, and a
discussion on the revised objective cannot be easily separated from that of the original.
This is especially because the vast majority of the project cost attributed to these
objectives had already been disbursed by the formal restructuring which occurred on
November 24, 2011, barely a year before project completion. Therefore, this objective is
awarded the same rating as the original objective.

Revised Objective 1b. To help promote more efficient energy consumption. Rated
Substantial
                                                          20


Outcomes

2.52 At the beginning of the CFL program in 2009, there were only two CFL
manufacturers in Bangladesh manufacturing about 9.6 million CFLs per year in the
country. By 2012, there were 19 CFL manufacturers, producing over 30.64 million CFLs
per year. While some of this production is meant for export, it is also seen to reflect
increased customer demand within Bangladesh, in contrast to low awareness and demand
among potential customers before the project. The increased demand can be partly
attributed to the publicity surrounding the large-scale CFL demonstration deployment
supported by the project. In May 2014, the Government has cancelled a WB project to
replace incandescent bulbs by energy efficient compact fluorescent lamps. According to
the World Bank statement, ‘The need for a demonstration effect for a free distribution of
CFLs is no longer apparent. Considering this, the government has decided to drop the
second phase of CFL program’. A Power department official was quoted as saying that
‘Now people are interested to invest over Tk 200 to replace an incandescent bulb by a
CFL bulb and thus the purpose of the project was achieved’. The current project was
being referred to by the official. 22

Outputs

2.53 Around 10.5 million CFLs were distributed across Bangladesh in a large-scale
nationwide program. A one-day nationwide distribution and the awareness campaign
associated with the program helped to increase public awareness about the energy saving
benefits of CFLs. However, early lamp failure rates due to sub-standard products meant
that the immediate expectation of reduction in peak demand through introduction of
CFLs was not achieved. The task team informed the mission that a survey conducted by
Infrastructure Development Company Limited revealed that about 34 percent of 10.5
million units were damaged.

2.54 Global Environmental Objective. To reduce atmospheric carbon emissions by
overcoming market barriers for renewable energy development, including high
implementation costs.

2.55 The GHG emissions reduction of the project until project completion (including
IDCOL SHSs, system expansion and system loss reduction) was approximately 1.33
million tons, while the total GHG emissions reduction including the 15 year life of the
IDCOL supported SHS is estimated to be more than 4.14 million tons by 2027. The
original target of displacing 250,000 tons of carbon was greatly exceeded as the SHS
program was ramped up through additional financing.

2.56 IDCOL has developed a competitive market for its 49 partnership organizations
which are allowed to compete for customers without any geographic restrictions. It has
been successful in developing supplies for SHS and batteries and related equipment.
There are now 16 local battery manufacturers and 17 charge control suppliers in the
country. IDCOL has managed to secure attractive warranties of 20 years duration for the
SHS panels and 5 years for batteries, which are reported by the project team to be of

22
     “Free CFL bulb distribution project cancelled” Article in New Age (Daily Newspaper) May 6, 2014.
                                             21


longer duration than available in most other countries. Battery manufacturers have also
made some inroads in some countries in Africa, indicating the acceptability of the
products beyond Bangladesh. The outcomes related to overcoming market barriers are
evident from the discussion on the outcomes from the IDCOL SHS program as discussed
under Objective 1.

Efficiency
2.57 The efficiency of the original project objective is rated High. Each of the major
activities covered by the project is estimated to produce higher economic rates of return
relative to expectations at appraisal.

2.58 Grid Expansion & System Loss reduction. The financial viability of grid
expansion was calculated based on the average tariff. The tariff rate is administered and
subsidized, and over the years the increase in the bulk supply tariff was not passed on to
the consumers in time, leading to a low financial rate of return of 5.36 percent to the
investment. Even at the appraisal stage, the estimated financial rate of return was low (5
percent). The main reasons for this were (i) administered tariffs that are not fully cost
reflective (ii) the high capital cost of rural electrification; and (iii) the slow pick-up of
loads in rural areas and the low intensity of electricity use.

2.59 For the economic analysis of grid expansion and system loss reduction, three
revenue streams were considered viz., revenue from sale of power, the incremental
revenue from system loss reduction which is valued at the cost of alternative generation
(diesel-based power plants, new private generation, and island generation for grid
quality) and revenue from avoidance of GHG emissions from displaced kerosene. The
economic rate of return of the investment with carbon benefit is 27 percent and without
carbon benefits is 23.6 percent. In comparison, the economic rate of return of the grid
expansion at the time of appraisal was 16 percent.

2.60 SHS rollout. The estimated overall financial internal rate of return was 26
percent, lower than estimate of 34 percent made at the additional financing in 2011. The
main driver of the difference was the increase in costs due to an increase in duties and
operations and maintenance costs. The overall economic rate of return for SHS
deployment is estimated at 42 percent at project completion. The benefits that were
considered were better lighting services from electricity and savings from reduced
expenditures on kerosene and battery charging. A separate economic rate of return was
not estimated at appraisal for SHS because of the low scale of SHS roll out planned at
that time.

2.61 The efficiency of the revised project objective is rated Modest. The efficiency of
the revised objective is related principally to the objective promoting more efficient
energy consumption. The financial rate of return for the CFL component which pursued
this objective was estimated at appraisal to be 44 percent and higher at 52 percent if
CDM benefits were included. This analysis considered the lifetime savings of energy
from using CFLs based on avoided generation costs as the only benefit. The cost
comprised the procurement of the energy efficient and high-quality CFLs, the cost of
CFL distribution, the cost of implementing consumer awareness programs, and the cost
                                             22


of monitoring and evaluation plans. After factoring in the Clean Development
Mechanism benefits, the economic rate of return was estimated to be 60 percent. Clean
Development Mechanism benefits were quantified at a validated economic value of
$30/ton.

2.62 Taking into account the large percentage of CFLs damages and rendered unusable
(34 percent of the 10.5 million units), efficiency of the restructured objective is rated
modest.

OUTCOME

2.63 Outcome of the project prior to restructuring is rated Highly Satisfactory. The
relevance of the original projects objective is clearly high given the large unfulfilled need
for electricity especially in the rural areas of the country and the potential development
benefits from increased electricity access especially for women and children. The
relevance of the initial project design was high with its appropriate and logical reliance
on the country’s existing strengths for rural grid expansion while making a start with off-
grid household SHS. Efficacy for the original objective is rated high given the favorable
social and economic outcomes that can be attributed to the outputs that exceeded original
targets. Efficiency of the original objective is rated high from the favorable economic
rates of return and cost-effective nature of operations. Overall Development Outcome
for the project prior to restructuring is rated highly satisfactory.

2.64 Outcome of the restructured project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
objective of improving energy efficiency – which was added at restructuring – was
highly relevant to the country’s priorities as well as the Bank’s partnership strategy for
Bangladesh. The project design following restructuring was appropriate for improving
energy efficiency, but is rated substantial because the approach was narrow, and cold
have been better integrated with the original objective at appraisal. Efficacy is rated
substantial, due to some shortcomings in meeting targets, and efficiency is rated modest
due to the large share – approximately 34 percent – of unusable CFLs among the total
number that were distributed.

2.65 Overall outcome of the project is rated Highly Satisfactory. The overall
outcome is derived using the harmonized OPCS-IEG evaluation guidelines for
restructured projects. On a scale of 1 to 6 (from Highly Unsatisfactory to Highly
Satisfactory), the outcomes prior to and after restructuring scores 6 and 5 respectively.
At restructuring, 80 percent of the final IDA contribution had been disbursed. Weighting
the outcome scores by 80:20 gives a weighted average outcome score of 5.6, which when
rounded yields a score of 6 or Highly Satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.66 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Moderate. The risks facing the sustainability of installed SHS are low, though the large
scale-up planned over the next few years may pose challenges in the future. REB and
PBSs face significant capacity, financial, and governance constraints in sustaining the
quality and pace of grid-based rural electrification. There is unlikely to be much progress
                                             23


in installing mini-grids without significant and clear policy signals from the Government.
The CFL effort has helped nudge a trend that is likely to continue on its own momentum.

Solar Home Systems

2.67 IDCOL has created a sound system for financing, installing, and maintaining SHS
with its access to and appropriate use of financial resources, fostering partnership
organizations, and establishing effective frameworks for capacity-building, customer
service, payment collection, monitoring, and quality assurance. IDCOL has expanded
and upgraded its own capacity as it ramps up the SHS rollout.

2.68      A remarkable achievement of the project has been to demonstrate the
willingness-to-pay of even relatively poor consumers for electricity infrastructure and
maintenance. Unlike grid electricity service, which is heavily subsidized, SHS users paid
nearly the full cost of the equipment, as well as the full cost of replacement and repairs. A
small subsidy and microfinance made the SHS affordable to even low-income households
in rural areas. During the project, 99 percent of households purchased SHS on credit,
paying between BDT 12,489 for a 20-Wp (watts peak) panel to BDT 40,911for an 85-Wp
panel. The program was also able to decrease the subsidy from US$90 on the selling
price of the SHS in 2002 to US$50 in 2009, US$28 by 2011, and further to US$25 by the
end of the project.

2.69 However, as IDCOL expands the reach of its SHS program towards its ambitious
goal of a total of 6 million households by 2016, it will progressively face poorer and
more dispersed customers. IDCOL has also set itself an end-goal of fully commercial
sales. To keep SHS affordable in pursuit of these goals, IDCOL will need to gear up in
terms of institutional capacity, reducing installation and service costs, as well as broad-
basing access to finance. Even as solar panel prices have decreased over the years, this
has been more or less compensated by the rise in battery prices and the premium applied
to them for the relatively longer warranty period of five years.

2.70 The mission was informed that IDCOL has established a separate renewable
energy department and is in the process of hiring and training additional people to keep
pace with the growing renewable energy program. The renewable energy department
consists of divisions covering the following subject matter: household SHS, bio-gas;
engineering; marketing and consumer awareness. RERED II is supporting a vocational
training institute to help train trainers for imparting skills relating to renewable energy
products. IDCOL’s commitment to the training is seen from its commitment to provide
70 percent of the training costs. IDCOL is also exploring innovative means to control
installation and service costs such as routing payments through mobile phones. World
Bank support for the IDCOL SHS program will continue to be supplemented by other
agencies including KfW, the Asian Development Bank, the United States Agency for
International Development, and the German Development Agency (GIZ). However,
donor funds for either grants or credit will be insufficient to meet the government goals
for off-grid electrification. For instance, RERED II supports 550,000 out of the additional
4 million SHS that are planned till 2016. A study is therefore being carried out under the
RERED II project to find ways to leverage additional financing from commercial
sources.
                                                   24


Grid-related components

2.71 Reductions in transmission losses. Physical targets under the grid component
were largely achieved, but generation constraints continue to be a risk for optimum
utilization of new/rehabilitated lines provided under the project. The Government has
plans to address generation constraints, which includes awarding contracts for large scale
Independent Power Producers (IPPs), and also adding short-term power plants (albeit at
higher cost), but the time line for this additional generation coming on-line is not certain.
The project achieved significant reductions in transmission losses which can be sustained
if regular repairs and maintenance are carried out. This may not be possible if the tariff
revisions do not keep pace with the cost of the supply of power.

2.72 Financial sustainability and governance issues for REB/PBSs. PBSs - which
operate under REB oversight - have now reached about 8 million rural households.
However, shortcomings in institutional capacity, financial performance and governance
of REB/PBSs threaten the sustainability of the progress achieved in rural electrification.
The financial performance of PBSs has deteriorated significantly over the past ten years
as the rapid expansion in rural electrification expansion has outstripped REB’s capacity
to monitor their performance. There has also been a gradual decline in the quality of
management and governance which is partly attributed to the relatively new practice of
appointing generalist civil servants without the requisite background and skills to run a
specialized agency like REB.

2.73 Aided by this project, a reform action plan was developed on three key broad
areas: i) strengthening the REB Board with professionals; ii) establishing zonal offices of
REB for managing the growing program; and iii) greater delegation of authority to the
PBSs. The action plan is currently under review by the Ministry and significant action
has yet to be taken. 23

Mini-grids

2.74 Mini-grids may be the only option for providing electricity for household and
commercial needs in remote and inaccessible areas, and as an intermediate arrangement
before the electricity grid reaches such areas. Under this project, the mini-grid
experiment yielded less than expected results, with only one mini-grid in successful
commercial operation out of the sever that were originally planned, and the three that
were actually attempted. Capital and operating costs for mini-grids are typically far
higher than for equivalent grid-based electricity. Further, mini-grid operations can be
limited by the capacity and willingness to pay on the part of consumers. Prospective
mini-grid operators also need reasonable certainty that in the event of the grid reaching
the area in the near to medium term they would be compensated for any stranded assets.
The Government needs to clarify its policies and plans on all these issues including
demarcating areas for mini-grid development and possible subsidies to improve viability


23
  In its memo dated June 19, the Task team notes that the REB board has been strengthened with
professional members, zonal offices have been established and a revised organogram is currently under
review at the Ministry of Public Administration for additional manpower for REB.
                                                   25


of mini-grid operations, if this segment is to show any significant results. 24 IDCOL staff
informed the mission that they are coordinating with the Power Cell to clarify policy on
buy-back provisions and other incentives through the Remote Area Power Scheme
(RAPS).

CFLs

2.75 Since CFLs have already gained popularity in the urban areas, under RERED II, a
reduced number of CFLs will be distributed in rural areas only. RERED II is also opting
for simple door-to-door distribution of CFLs free of cost to build consumer awareness. It
is recognized that for long-term continued use of CFLs, products of good quality at
affordable prices are made available. The project team informed us that following
RERED, there are now about 30 firms manufacturing CFLs in Bangladesh, indicating a
promising competitive market.

BANK PERFORMANCE

The quality at entry for the project is rated Satisfactory. The project drew upon the
Bank’s past experience on rural electrification within and outside Bangladesh, assembled
a diverse and experienced team, generally ensured institutional readiness for
implementation, and identified major risks while mostly provided for their mitigation. An
exception was the failure to foresee the lack of readiness and compatibility of REB to
provide SHS on a fee-for-service basis.

2.76 In respect of the grid-related components, the project design incorporated lessons
from the Bank’s previous implementation experience with REB (Rural Electrification
Projects I, II and III). For the off-grid SHS components – which were new for the Bank
in the Bangladesh context – the project design drew upon the Bank’s experience with
SHS implementation in other Asian countries. Major risks across the project components
were generally identified well and mitigating measures were provided for, though the
CFL component that was added in 2009 gave rise to unforeseen challenges as explained
below. The project team brought together professionals with a range of country and
sector expertise in rural electrification and renewable energy projects in the Philippines,
Zimbabwe, Vietnam, South Africa, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Indonesia, Pakistan, India
and Sri Lanka.

2.77 Both REB, acting as a quasi-regulator and financial manager, and the PBSs acting
as service operators, had good track records of operational and financial management for
implementing the grid-related components. For these components, the timely transfer of
BPDB lines and facilities to REB was recognized as a high risk. To ensure that this
transfer was carried out smoothly a comprehensive program was agreed upon between
the BPDB, REB and the Government ministry. This risk was further addressed by tying
disbursements to actual progress in effecting the transfers. The financial sustainability of
the PBSs was also identified as a risk, and efficiency improvements, line rationalization,

24
  In its memo dated June 19, 2014, the Task Team adds that “in the last couple of months, there has been
progress in establishing a compensation mechanism where the mini-grid operator would be compensated if
grid was extended to the mini-grid area within 5 years of establishment of the mini-grid.”
                                            26


and increased generation were suggested as the mitigation measures. In retrospect, the
project design did not anticipate constraints in power supply that might reduce the
benefits from grid extension and rehabilitation. The project team reasons that at appraisal
the country had started generating power from large IPPs, and load-shedding was
relatively low (less than 10 percent of peak demand was unmet in 2002, compared to over
30 percent in 2009) and the supply scenario had looked promising overall at that time.

2.78 For the IDCOL-managed SHS effort, the project design drew upon the Bank’s
experience with promoting SHS in other Asian countries including India (Renewable
Resources Development Project), Indonesia (Solar Home Systems Project) and Poverty
and Gender studies in Indonesia and Sri Lanka. The project applied lessons learned from
Sri Lanka’s Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development project, which had
employed easy-to-implement grant and delivery models; commercially managed credit
lines and grant administration; and the promotion of industry associations and NGOs as
agents of growth. The project design also drew upon the proven success factors of
community-based stakeholders (NGOs and microfinance institutions) in Bangladesh.

2.79 The project team considered the potential pitfalls for REB – which specializes in
grid management – in providing off-grid SHS on a fee-for-service basis. Though the
project design provided flexibility for REB to adapt administratively and financially, the
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of this effort proved to be low.

2.80 The CFL component that was introduced in 2009 was guided by the criteria used
by the Government’s Efficient Lighting Initiative of Bangladesh and lessons from similar
projects in other countries. The component design recognized the risk associated with the
quality of CFLs, and provided for pre-shipment inspection agents to check for quality
during the production process, and testing for lamp lifetimes at the national testing lab of
the Bangladesh Standards and Testing Institute. However, the Project National Steering
Committee (NSC), which had oversight over the project’s activities, lacked the mandate
to oversee CFL quality, monitoring or record keeping, and these challenged the success
of the program.

2.81 The Bank performance during project supervision is rated Satisfactory. The
Bank conducted intensive supervision with over 235 staff weeks devoted for this purpose
over the project period. The task team leaders and important core team members were
based in Dhaka which enabled frequent and intensive interaction with Government and
implementing agencies. Discussions with IDCOL and REB underline this. REB noted
that the Bank's performance exceeded its expectations and made a significant
contribution to the rationalization of distribution lines.

2.82 The project team played a catalytic role in assisting the Government to establish
an appropriate policy framework to guide the rural electrification program. The Bank's
involvement enabled the establishment of appropriate standards for the selection of grid
and off-grid options and the transfer of lines in rural areas from BPDB to REB, thereby
contributing to the sustainability of the rural electrification program. Importantly, the
Bank and GEF transferred knowledge of global established international best practice in
the field of renewable energy to Bangladesh. Respondents from IDCOL and the
Government give high marks to the Bank for seizing the SHS scale-up opportunity using
                                             27


the IDCOL ownership and micro-finance model. They told the mission that the Bank’s
contribution was crucial in terms of planning, training, and advising on financial and
capacity development matters. The Government and IDCOL also credit the Bank with
setting the stage for other donors to join in the efforts – Asian Development Bank, KfW,
GIZ, JICA, and the Islamic Development Bank. IDCOL staff noted the active
participation and contribution of WB staff in monthly operational meetings during the
formative period of the SHS program.

2.83 The Bank demonstrated flexibility in responding to issues that negatively affected
project implementation, including those arising from handover of lines and deployment
of CFLs. More importantly, as the IDCOL model of SHS deployment was found to be
more effective (compared to the REB fee-for-service model) the team encouraged
IDCOL to scale up its efforts through re-allocating funds from the underperforming
component, providing two rounds of additional financing, and project restructuring.
During supervision, the Bank team supported the borrower in overcoming difficulties,
such as the delay in handing over lines from BPDB, and addressing concerns of
partnership organizations based on their experience in the field.

2.84 The focus of the Bank's team on quality assurance was demonstrated by the
monitoring and quality assurance framework agreed with IDCOL and the timely
technical advice and support extended to REB in the wake of quality issues under the
CFL component. The lessons from the first phase of the CFL distribution were captured
and incorporated in the planning of the CFL deployment component under RERED II.

2.85 The project team agrees that the project could have been restructured following
the additional financing in 2009 (rather than 2011), when it became evident that there
would be no new activities under the grid component and the focus of the project had
settled on the off-grid component and efficiency improvements. Likewise the
cancellation of unused funds for SHS and CFL could have been carried out earlier, but
the rapidly increasing installation rate of the SHSs made it difficult to accurately establish
the cancellation amount before late 2012, and the team saw it as more convenient to
process both the SHS and CFL cancellations together in one restructuring paper.

2.86   Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

2.87 The government’s performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The Government’s
strong commitment to the project was demonstrated by several actions that it took to
solve problems that arose during implementation in cooperation with the Bank’s team
and implementing agencies. The Government also importantly provided the requisite
autonomy to IDCOL to achieve its potential in implementing the SHS component. The
IDCOL Board has been constituted in a balanced manner with four government and
private sector representatives each, and headed and staffed by qualified professionals.

2.88 When the project was initially delayed due to one of the conditions for
effectiveness (handing over of lines between BPDB and REB) was not met, the
Government worked to overcome the opposition of the vested interest groups until the
                                              28


issue was resolved. For IDCOL’s SHS program, the Government allowed a large portion
of IDA resources to be channeled through the non-government channel, indicating a
strong commitment to increasing access and improving services throughout the country.
IDCOL’s strong financing model and good relationships with its partner organizations
ultimately translated to the large-scale distribution of SHS and the creation of a vibrant
SHS and ancillary industry in Bangladesh.

2.89 The Government has yet to seriously address the financial, institutional and
governance issues facing REB and PBSs. In respect of mini-grids, the Government needs
to get a better handle on the need and demand for such facilities and clarify policy issues
that are holding back their development.

2.90 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Highly
Satisfactory. IDCOL has played a pivotal role in the success of the SHS program, and its
performance is considered exemplary by this assessment. The program has now reached
a pace of about 60,000 SHS installations per month and IDCOL has set itself the
impressive goal of financing a cumulative 6 million SHS by 2016. Up to November
2013, a total of about 2.7 million SHSs have already been installed by IDCOL.

2.91 IDCOL demonstrated full ownership of the project and proactively developed
solutions to problems that were encountered when initiating and ramping up the pace of
SHS installations. The relative autonomy accorded by the Government gave IDCOL the
institutional flexibility to adapt to changes, including increasing its staff strength to meet
the growing demand of SHS, and to incentivize staff performance and reduce turnover
through market-based salary structures.

2.92 IDCOL successfully evolved a structure that involved multiple partnership
organizations (NGOs and micro-credit finance institutions) to carry out marketing, sales,
installation, system maintenance and payment collection. In doing so, IDCOL leveraged
the geographical reach of the partnership organizations and their social acceptability at
the community level, and the existence of a micro-credit culture in rural Bangladesh
resulting in customer readiness to try SHS. IDCOL works with partnership organizations
to train consumers to carry out regular, simple maintenance work by themselves. IDCOL
ensures quality assurance by setting technical standards and enforcing the standards
through strong supervision and monitoring. By using the ownership model and working
through its partner organizations IDCOL has been able to create a sense of ownership on
the part of consumers resulting in proper system care.

2.93 IDCOL succeeded in developing a successful model for SHS involving financial
risk sharing with partnership organizations together with proper customer selection and
attention to collection efficiencies. Partnership organizations have achieved an average
collection efficiency of 94 percent and are servicing their debts owed to IDCOL on a
timely basis. IDCOL has succeeded in blending access to financing and availability of
grant assistance to increase affordability and to ensure that partnership organizations have
adequate capital for investing in and operating the service infrastructure.

2.94 IDCOL’s experiment has proved that multilateral financial institutions in
Bangladesh could successfully diversify their services to include access to infrastructure
                                             29


services by coupling micro-lending with leveraged donor resources. This has served to
demonstrate to other low-income countries that the users’ willingness-to-pay for energy
services can be tapped - with an affordable payment plan and assurance of good service -
to leverage assistance from multilateral and bilateral financing agencies and donors.

2.95 REB displayed commitment to reducing technical losses and connecting
additional households and was largely successful in carrying out these tasks. In respect
of providing SHS on a fee-for-service basis, REB’s performance was less than
satisfactory. Since this was not the core business of REB, it found itself institutionally
challenged to meet the installation targets and conduct installation and bill collection in a
cost-effective manner. However, the institutional capacity and performance of REB has
deteriorated over time as discussed in some detail under the sections on ‘achievement of
objectives’ and ‘risk to development outcome’. This was partly evident from the number
of audit observations by the Government auditor on REB project accounts and delays
faced in the procurement in the activities implemented by REB.

2.96   Overall Borrower Performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

Monitoring & Evaluation

2.97 M&E Design. Outcome indicators for the project’s first objective - social
development and economic growth resulting from increased electricity access -
appropriately included i) impact on incomes and reduction in poverty; ii) enhanced rural
productivity and other development opportunities; iii) increased empowerment of
women; iv) enhanced children’s study time through improved lighting; v) improved
provision of safe drinking water; and vi) improved quality of life as measured by selected
factors.

2.98 Output indicators for the first objective included i) number of rural households
provided access from grid; ii) number of rural households serviced from renewable
energy sources; iii) the number of SHS; and iv) the number of renewable energy mini-
grids supported. The number of kilometers of distribution lines renovated by REB and
the resultant reduction of system losses was to be tracked.

2.99   The output indicator for the second objective of improving electricity
consumption efficiency was simply the number of CFLs that replaced incandescent bulbs.
The key global environment objective was to be measured through the reduction of
atmospheric carbon emissions/ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

2.100 M&E Implementation. The socioeconomic outcomes from increased electricity
access were measured through two impact assessments of grid electrification carried out
in in 2005 and 2010 by REB, and an SHS impact evaluation in 2012 for the IDCOL
program.

2.101 The number of households and enterprises connected to the grid by the project
was obtained from REB/PBS monthly reports on new connections. The indicators for
                                            30


length of lines renovated and total system loss reduction were tracked by the internal
reporting system of REB/PBSs and reported regularly to the project.

2.102 IDCOL established an ongoing monitoring system for the SHS program. An
Operations Committee comprising IDCOL management and partnership organizations’
representatives conduct monthly meetings on the SHS program results and issues. The
data on the number of rural households serviced by SHS is collected through progress
reports of IDCOL/partnership organizations. SHS installations are randomly selected for
inspections and verifications by IDCOL field inspectors. In parallel, independent
technical audits are undertaken on a regular basis. IDCOL regularly submitted reports to
the Bank’s project staff on the progress in installation of SHS, minutes of the Operation
Committee meetings, and financial statements.

2.103 M&E Utilization. The data collected through project M&E had a strong impact
on improving project implementation. In particular, in the case of the SHS, feedback
from the field helped the project team and IDCOL incorporate new technical
specifications and technologies, such as LED lights, to better serve lower-income
households. Feedback from the project teams also proved crucial for the establishment of
improved SHS testing facilities and improved service provision for partnership
organizations. In the case of the CFLs, though there were some deficiencies in record-
keeping and updating the computer database to meet the stringent CDM requirements,
post-installation surveys helped to detect early lamp failure rates and prompted REB to
take remedial measures, including withholding final payments to the supplier and claim
replacement of CFLs.

2.104 Overall, M&E is rated High.


3. Power Sector Development Technical Assistance
Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

3.1     According to the Development Finance Agreement dated August 2, 2004, the
project development objectives were to:

   i.   create effective capacity within the Government (Ministry of Power, Energy and
        Mineral Resources) to put in place power sector policies, industry structures, and
        a gas supply strategy needed for a balanced development of Bangladesh’s power
        sector;
 ii.    create capacity within the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC) to
        regulate the sector effectively; and
 iii.   prepare and secure financing for at least two well-structured power sector
        investment projects that are then efficiently implemented.
                                                31


RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

3.2     Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. At the time of
project appraisal in 2004, low electricity coverage (only 35 percent of households) and
erratic electricity supply were seen as significant obstacles to economic growth and
poverty alleviation in Bangladesh. The energy sector’s weak institutional framework and
weak financial situation were constraints to scaling up investment and improving
performance in the sector. A lack of adequate and reliable electricity continues to be seen
as a major constraint by businesses according the Bank’s “Doing Business Reports.” 25

3.3     The shortcomings in the sector were recognized in the Government’s “Three-Year
Road Map for Power Sector Reform (2009-2012)”, which placed emphasis on improving
policy and regulatory frameworks, developing capacity in the power sector, preparing
energy sector projects, and making progress on the Government’s corporatization agenda.

3.4    The project’s objectives were also consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategy (2001-2003) with its focus on better governance and private sector-led growth,
and the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy (2011-2014) which aims to
“accelerate growth: increase transformative investment and enhance the business
environment.”

3.5    On the above basis, the relevance of the project’s objectives is rated high for
having recognized the weaknesses in the power sector that span policy, capacity and
investment-related issues, and proposing a balanced development path for the sector.

DESIGN

3.6     The project comprised the following five components:

        A. Technical Assistance (US$5.5 million; at completion: US$8.23 million)

        A.1 Power Sector - Policy Making and Enterprise Restructuring (at appraisal:
        US$3.5 million; at completion: US$5.70 million) to provide the government
        (Power Division/Power Cell) with the consulting support to scale up sector
        reforms by preparing a detailed restructuring plan, using this plan to shape
        government policies and the regulatory arrangements, and creating corporate
        structures for at least two urban electricity distribution entities.
        A.2 Energy Sector Regulatory Framework (at appraisal: US$0.5 million; at
        completion: US$0.41 million) to be defined after the BERC is staffed, and to
        complement activities being funded from other sources.
        A.3 Gas Sector Support (US$1.5 million; at completion: US$2.12 million) to
        assist the Energy and Mineral Resources Division of the MPEMR to strengthen
        planning and management capacity; prepare and update the Gas Sector Master
        Plan and Strategy (GSMPS); and for PetroBangla to prepare implementation and


25
  World Bank 2013. Doing Business: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises; World
Bank 2014. Doing Business: Understanding Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises
                                           32


       financing plans, which will ensure reliable and adequate gas supply to power,
       industry, and other sectors.

       B. Power Companies Management Strengthening (at appraisal US$4.0 million;
       at completion: US$0.0 million) to introduce modern operating and management
       practices into electricity distribution in non-rural areas and into a few power
       plants.

       C. Training and Other Capacity Building Measures (at appraisal US$1.25
       million; at completion: US$1.33 million) to be designed under component A,
       based on feedback from beneficiary entities, and taking into account other
       ongoing training programs.

       D. Goods and Equipment (at appraisal US$4.25 million; at completion:US$4.59
       million) to facilitate project management and install interface and system
       metering to support the unbundling of power sector enterprises.

       E. Support for Project Implementation Operating Costs (at appraisal US$0.5
       million; at completion: US$0.40 million) to ensure the smooth operations of the
       Power Cell and BERC.

3.7    Implementation Arrangements. The Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral
Resources (MPEMR) supervised the project. MPEMR was the also the main
implementing agency for the components relating to reforms and training and capacity
building activities, along with the procurement of goods and equipment. The Bangladesh
Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC), created under the Energy Regulatory
Commission Act (March 2003); and the Energy and Mineral Resources Division of
Petrobangla were the implementing agencies for components A.2 and A.3 respectively.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

3.8     Relevance of project design is rated High. The project inputs were geared to
produce the outcomes that were sought by the Government within the scope of its
medium-term energy sector reform. Thus, enterprise restructuring was expected to result
in an effective separation of policy making, regulation, and service providers and
therefore yield improved sector performance. Changes to the energy sector regulatory
framework were to result in an independent and effective regulator that would balance
financial sustainability with consumer interests. Training and capacity building were
geared to increase utilization of existing assets and manpower through a mix of better
corporate governance, regulation, and investment in infrastructure. Technical assistance
for preparing investment projects was intended to mobilize investment financing for the
sector.

PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS; DATES

3.9     The planned IDA contribution was US$15.5 million consisting of a US$7.1
million credit and a grant of US$8.4 million. At project closing, US$6 million of the
credit (84 percent of the planned amount) and US$8.59 million of the grant
(approximately same as the planned amount) was used. In October 2012 there was a
                                             33


partial reallocation of credit funds to categories originally identified to be financed only
through the grant fund, to cover shortfall for committed contracts. At project completion,
an estimated amount of SDR 0.51 million that remained undisbursed was canceled.

3.10 In November 2008, the project closing date was extended by 30 months to June
30, 2011 due to slow project implementation. The reasons for the delay are discussed in
the next section on ‘implementation experience’. A second extension of 18 months was
made to December 31, 2012 to complete the then-ongoing project activities and to
support the preparation of two major investment projects (feasibility studies for “National
Grid 3 & 4” and “Repowering of Existing Power Plants to Improve Efficiency”) and
development of an LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) terminal.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

3.11 The project experienced delays in the beginning due to complications in
implementation arrangements and frequent turnover of key management and staff of the
implementing agency. While the Power Cell was meant to be the implementing agency
for the entire Power Sector Component, in practice, the beneficiary power utilities
preferred to bypass the Power Cell and implement their activities directly. Another
complication arose from project funds being routed through two different divisions of the
MPEMR, requiring frequent meetings to review project processing and implementation.
Finally, the Energy Regulatory Commission took nearly four years to access project
assistance due to the delays in the administrative apparatus in the Government. There
were frequent transfers of the Power Division Secretary, and periodic transfer/removal of
key Power Cell and Planning Board Staff, and occasional understaffing in the Power Cell
and the Energy Regulatory Commission.

3.12 Following the mid-term review in 2007, the Bank agreed to a 30-month extension
after the government completed the following actions within a stipulated six-month
period: (a) increasing the capacity of Power Cell by hiring at least three experts in the
fields of finance, information technology, and engineering; (b) awarding the contract for
the Owner’s Engineer to the Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project; and (c) preparing the bid
evaluation report for the power system interface metering contract. Thereafter, the pace
of project implementation improved. The Power Secretaries generally showed high
commitment to resolve the implementation bottlenecks. From 2008 onwards the new
Chairman of BERC was pro-active in moving the Energy Sector Regulatory Framework
agenda forward.

3.13 Other interventions by the Bank and multilateral partners complemented the
development objectives of this project. The Bank’s four multi-sectoral development
policy loans (Development Support Credits I to IV) and one Power DPL (totaling
US$720 million in budget support: see Annex B) had several energy sector triggers for
improving utility finances and creating an enabling environment through i) reducing
account receivables, ii) reducing system losses, iii) preparing and implementing a
financial recovery plan, iv) establishing the Energy Regulatory Commission, v)
upgrading energy prices and specially index petroleum prices to international fuel oil
price, and vi) reducing Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation’s debt, among others. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and other donors also provided additional technical
                                                  34


assistance in parallel and supported the preparation of the 2006 Power System Master
Plan, corporatization of BPDB, and the preparation of investment projects in power
generation and transmission. USAID supported capacity building of BERC and helped it
draft and finalize several regulations. AusAid trust funds executed by the World Bank
helped six energy sector companies with designing Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to
strengthen corporate governance and accountability.

3.14 Towards the end of the project period, concerns arose about the quality of
governance of procurement arrangements across sectors. 26 Following this, the Bank and
some other financiers withdrew much of their support for the project. This led to
significant delays in the financial closure of some of the expected IPPs, as some of these
had planned to approach the World Bank for financial guarantees. The mission found
that there has not been any significant progress in this regard. The task team informed
the mission that attempts are being made to secure finance from IFC and other sources,
but the IPPs have not yet made any significant progress towards financial closure.

3.15 Safeguards. The project was placed in Category C under the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguard policies, and no safeguards policies were triggered.

3.16 Financial Management. The procurement process was reported to be time
consuming and burdensome. The implementing agencies from time to time asked for
simplification of the process including some delegation of authority but no specific
actions appear to have been taken in this regard. The Government and the implementing
agencies preferred to employ full-time consultants to supervise firm-level contracts rather
than committing their own time to these tasks, and this may have slowed the pace of
procurement to some extent.

3.17 In the earlier stages of the project, PetroBangla failed to report project activities in
entity audit reports, but the Bank followed up to ensure that this reporting was done for
the remainder of the project duration. The Power Cell settled all outstanding audit
observations by the project completion date. The task of computerizing BERC’s
financial management and preparing its audit report for FY2012 were not completed by
the project completion, but have since been completed and reviewed by the Bank.

Achievement of the Objectives
Objective 1. To create effective capacity within the Government (Ministry of Power,
Energy and Mineral Resources or MPEMR) to put in place power sector policies,
industry structures, and a gas supply strategy needed for a balanced development of
Bangladesh's power sector. Rated Substantial



Outputs
26
  This arose from the WB Bangladesh Padma Multipurpose Bridge Project when the World Bank stated
that it “will proceed with support for the Padma Bridge only if the Anti-corruption Commission (ACC)
launches a full and fair investigation based on evidence of corruption under the project.” WB Press
Statement on Padma Bridge: December 8, 2012
                                            35


3.18 The project produced the following outputs that were expected to build capacity
within MPEMR and energy sector enterprises and contribute to a balanced development
of the Bangladesh’s Power Sector.

       Training. About 56 training events, conferences, meetings, and study tours were
       conducted for staff at different levels of the government and energy sector
       enterprises. The events addressed capacity building in the electricity and gas
       sectors for planning, technical matters, financial systems, and promoting private
       participation.

       Power Sector studies. For the power sector, fifteen documents were prepared,
       ranging from plans and strategies to technical studies and training material. The
       plans included the Power System Master Plan, the Financial Restructuring and
       Recovery Plan, and a Roadmap for energy efficiency improvement and demand
       side management. Strategies and technical assessments covered the
       corporatization of the Electric Generation Company of Bangladesh (EGCB) and
       the South Zone Power Distribution Company; REB effectiveness; assessment of
       power system interface meters; a generation support framework; and an
       assessment of energy demand. Technical support was provided for transactions
       for rental power, environmental impact assessments, construction of transmission
       related facilities, and repowering existing power plants of BPDB.

       Gas Sector studies. For the gas sector, PetroBangla prepared the Gas Sector
       Master Plan and Strategy (GSMPS) and other important documents related to a
       communications strategy for gas and energy reforms, and a natural gas pricing
       framework.

       Power Sector Policies. The Power Cell prepared several policy documents. These
       included the National Power Policy update (2012), the Renewable Energy Policy
       (2008), the Private Sector Power Generation policy and the Emergency Energy &
       Power Supply Special Act. Also, policy guidelines were developed for purchasing
       power from captive power plants and for supporting Remote Area Power Supply
       Systems (RAPSS).

       Project formulation. Project preparation activities completed include: the
       Siddhirganj Peaking Power project, the Ghorashal Repowering project, the
       Remote metering project and the National Grid 3 and 4 power transmission lines.
       Contract documents were prepared for four combined cycle power plants:
       Bibiyana 1 and 2 (341 MW each), Megnhaghat (335 MW) and Serajganj (300-
       450 MW).

       Installation of metering system. A Power interface metering system with 415
       meters was installed in 2011 based on an in-house assessment by the Power Cell.

       Utility balance sheets ‘cleaning’. Utility balance sheet cleaning for the country’s
       power sector was continued, including making within- and inter-utility
       adjustments and making provisions for long-term debts.
                                             36


Outcomes

3.19 The outcome as expressed in this objective was ‘balanced development’ of the
energy sector, but this is not defined in the project appraisal document. Therefore, the
extent of balanced development of the sector is inferred from the results discussed below
in respect of sector capacity, sector structure reform, private participation, energy output
parameters; and sector financial management and performance. However, the extent of
attribution of these results to the project intervention remains unclear.

Power Sector

3.20 For the power sector, the training provided under the project has contributed to
the Power Cell expanding its role as a “think tank” for sector planning, analytical work,
and providing solutions to technical problems. This is evidenced by the advisory role
played by the Power Cell on inter-utility and gas-to-power issues and on long-term power
sector planning. The Power Cell participates in all IPP procurement and EPC
(engineering procurement and construction) for the Government and BPDB. Feedback to
the mission from MPEMR officials suggests that the Bank’s technical assistance has
played a pivotal role in improving the capacity of the Power Cell.

3.21 Electricity access increased from 35 percent in 2004 to about 62 percent in 2013.
Installed electricity generation capacity has increased from 3,622 MW in 2004 to
5,201MW in 2008 and 9,500 MW in 2013 compared to the project target of 7,158 MW
target by 2012. Of the capacity added since 2004, 3,922 MW came from private IPPs,
with 3,207 MW more under construction, and 3,635 MW under process. However
generation capacity remains well below demand, while the addition of rental power to the
generation mix raises the average cost of generation significantly.

3.22 System losses have reduced significantly between 2004 (20.04 percent) and 2013
(12.26 percent). Though no target was set for this parameter, the system losses are the
least in the South Asia region.

3.23 A very significant reduction in accounts receivable from 6.45 months in 2004 to
2.21 months in 2012 is seen in the distribution segment. The same indicator for BPDB
shows a favorable trend (from 11.4 months in 2007-8 to 6.5 months in 2012-13) but still
remains high. It is also unclear to what extent this performance is linked to the balance
sheet cleaning exercise that was undertaken in parallel in the sector.

3.24 The task team reported that as a result of installing interface metering systems,
inter-utility disputes on energy flow have been reduced, and invoices are being published
based on accurate readings of the system meters.

Gas Sector

3.25     The Gas Sector Master Plan and Strategy (GSMPS) has been guiding the
investment and development programs in the gas sector. The GSMPS established that the
country’s domestic gas supply capacity would diminish after 2020 as reserves dry up. As
a result, the government has decided to gradually shift electricity generation to combined
cycle and coal-based thermal power plants to reduce gas consumption and to start
                                             37


importing Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to supplement domestic gas supply. The project
activities were therefore modified to fund preparation for construction of an LNG import
terminal.

Objective 2. Create capacity within BERC to regulate the sector effectively. Rated
Modest

Outputs

3.26     BERC became operational as the energy sector regulator and is carrying out its
role of issuing service providers’ licenses, and power tariff orders. BERC staff received
training related to preparation of technical standards and codes, reviewing and processing
license applications, and preparation and enforcement of tariff regulations.

3.27 Six regulations on licensing and energy tariffs (excluding for petroleum products)
were prepared, and four of them have become effective. In total, four technical and
financial codes and standards were prepared to realize least-cost investments. The Power
Factor Improvement Plan was developed and implemented. Based on regulations in
place, 1,460 licenses (1,250 for electricity sector and 210 for gas sector) and 43 tariff
orders (excluding for petroleum products) and directives were issued between 2008 and
2012.

3.28 Public perception of the power sector’s performance and customer satisfaction
were monitored through a public hearing held during ‘electricity week’ every year.
Public hearings, procurement notices, and open meeting notices, through BERC and
respective utility websites have made data available on the electricity sector in general as
well as utility operational and commercial performance. BERC has been carrying out
utility tariff reviews in connection with tariff application and seeking public opinion in
this regard through websites and media advertisements. In addition, with BERC’s
support, the Energy and Mineral Resources Division of the PetroBangla and operating
companies prepared and disseminated a report on “Communication Strategy and
Campaign for Natural Gas and Energy Reforms” to help create awareness for gas sector
reforms and pricing within stakeholders and consumers.

3.29 However, no quantitative information was gathered on customer satisfaction and
public perception on sector performance. The project developed a mechanism to provide
information on better sector performance and services to customers. For example, online
application for new connections was established, electricity bill-pay facilities were
improved to allow payments via automated teller machine (ATM), mobile phone, and
online.

Outcomes

3.30 As a result of tariff and other regulations, between 2008 and 2012 wholesale and
retail electricity tariffs were increased by 118 percent (from USC 3.09/kWh to USC
6.71/kWh) and 62 percent (from USC 5.09/kWh to USC 8.21/kWh), respectively.
Different categories of gas tariffs were also increased by between 8 percent and 79
percent after 2008. However, this translated to only a 13 percent reduction in fiscal
                                             38


burden compared to the no adjustment scenario, due to the increase in costs of electricity
supply.

3.31 Feedback from government officials suggests that members of the public have
access to information on electricity sector legislations, regulations, codes, tariff orders,
energy sector data and operations, including utility operational and commercial
performance. This information is available in both English and Bengali. This is broadly
confirmed by a representative of an independent consumer affairs organization that met
with this mission. However, the representative also conveyed the perception that public
hearings seem to be carried out after tariff decisions have already been made internally.
There does not appear to be a dependable provision for receiving consumer complaints
and resolving them. It was also reported that there is yet to be any significant feeling of
the electricity service consumer being ‘empowered.’

3.32 The presence of tariff regulations and benchmarks for tariff increases may have
made a positive impact on private sector interest in electricity generation. Since BERC
was established, four IPPs have expressed interest, and three among them have developed
power plants to sell electricity to the grid.

Objective 3. Prepare, and secure financing for, at least two well-structured power
sector investment projects that are then efficiently implemented. Rated Modest

Outputs

3.33 Six investment projects were prepared in power generation, transmission,
distribution; energy efficiency; and gas transmission and distribution. Two power sector
investment projects (Siddhirganj Peaking Power or SPPP and the South Zone Power
Distribution Company or SZPDC) were fully prepared,

3.34 Four other investment projects (apart from SPPP and SZPDC) - (a) Gas
debottlenecking and energy efficiency project, (b) Ghorasal Repowering Project for
increasing power generation efficiency, (c) NG-3 and NG-4 400 kV Transmission
Project, and (d) the Remote Metering Project - were prepared with the intention of
obtaining Bank financing. However, the Bank was not able to proceed with the appraisal
of these projects for financing due to the Bank’s suspension of financing large
infrastructure projects.

Outcomes

3.35 Financing was secured only for the Siddhirganj Peaking Power Plant. Although
the SZPDC was also considered for Bank financing, this was held back because of
backtracking of corporatization in the power sector and the Government’s inability to
move ahead with the SZPDC corporatization. The Bank was not able to proceed with the
appraisal of these projects for financing due to the Bank’s suspension of financing large
infrastructure projects: (a) Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project – additional financing; (b)
Ghorasal Repowering Project for increasing power generation efficiency, (c) NG-3 and
NG-4 400 kV Transmission Project; and (d) the Remote Metering Project.
                                            39


Efficiency
3.36 Efficiency is rated Modest. The project period was extended by a total of 48
months through two restructurings, effectively doubling the originally planned
implementation period. The total outlay for the project remained unchanged. In
retrospect, the project design may have been ambitious given the institutional risks and
the political economy relating to the electricity sectors, which were identified at project
appraisal. As discussed in the sections on ‘implementation experience’, and ‘Bank and
Borrower performance’, the reasons for the time overrun included administrative delays,
resistance to institutional change from vested interests, and the political economy.
Several if not all of these matters were within the control of the Government and various
electricity sector institutions. Overall, the efficiency with which project outcomes were
achieved is rated modest.

OUTCOME

3.37 The project objectives were highly relevant to the issues facing Bangladesh’s
electricity sector, and well aligned with the Government’s priorities as well as the Bank’s
country partnership strategies. The relevance of design is also rated high with planned
inputs being logically linked to the expected outcomes. Efficacy is rated modest overall
with the goal of balanced development of the sector being undercut by the poor prospects
for financial sustainability; the sector regulator BERC yet to display the independence
and competence to gain credibility with all relevant stakeholders; and lack of sufficient
progress in respect of implementing two planned power sector investment projects.
Efficiency is rated modest mainly due to the project implementation period being nearly
twice the original plan, despites several complementary project activities by the Bank as
well as other active multilaterals and bi-laterals covering several common sector issues.
Overall project development outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.38 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Substantial. The sector policies and regulations and institutional aspects that have been
supported by the project are largely accepted and mainstreamed, and there was significant
capacity improvement in MPEMR and BERC as demonstrated by some positive outputs
and outcomes in respect of policy formulation and sector regulation. Through successive
tariff increases the Government has also demonstrated its intention and ability to move
the sector towards sector financial sustainability and improvements in service.

3.39 Retaining sector capacity. The rate and nature of staff turnover is a matter of
concern for retaining staff with the right training, capacity and experience. At project
completion, only eight of the 16 Power Cell officers who worked on the project remained
in their positions, and only eight of the 15 officers who took at least one of the training
programs under the project remained at BERC. However, at a working level, frequent
turnover or transfer was not observed in PetroBangla, and the last Project Director has
been retained for more than five years at project completion. Feedback from the project
team suggests that the capacity of the Power Cell and BERC has been affected negatively
by staff turnover. Maintaining the capacity developed through the project in the Power
                                             40


Cell and BERC remains a challenge. On the positive side, most of the senior staff that
retired from the Power Cell and other power utilities during the project has remained
active in the energy sector in various capacities; therefore, some skills earned through the
project remain available to the sector at large.

BANK PERFORMANCE

3.40 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project
design built on past experience with technical assistance projects in the sector in
Bangladesh and other countries. The design addressed the identified institutional
shortcomings in the sector through capacity development to generate sector reform, and
provided for a competent and empowered reform team within the Government to
implement the process. Thus, the project provided the reform implementation tools to the
Government, which could then leverage lending and support sound investments. A
detailed analysis was carried out at appraisal on utility commercial and financial
performance, power sector issues, and the challenges of scaling up development of the
power sector.

3.41 The appraisal document appropriately noted the prevailing weaknesses in
institutional capacity and highlighted the risks in strengthening the Power Cell and
operationalizing BERC, and empowering them to shape sector policies, regulations, and
reforms. Risk mitigation measures were incorporated through strengthening staffing of
Power Cell, and agreeing on predictable tenures for the heads and staff of the Power Cell
and BERC. The institutional risk for the project was also expected to be mitigated by
other policy reform and investment projects that provided additional policy leverage and
financial support in support of the overall development objectives.

3.42 In retrospect, the project design may have been too ambitious in its estimation of
the implementation period of the project given the Government’s limited institutional
capacity and the large number of implementing and beneficiary agencies.

3.43 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Satisfactory. The
project was implemented under extremely difficult conditions, including political turmoil,
high officer turnover rate, slow procurement, obstruction by vested interests, and more
recently, the Bank's decision to suspend large infrastructure financing. In the face of these
challenges, the Bank showed flexibility and coordinated with the Government,
implementing agencies and other donors to maintain the pace of project implementation.

3.44 The project implementation was kept relevant by adjusting project activities in
response to unforeseen issues and in general the changing political and economic
environment in the country. For example, activities were added, dropped, and adjusted
from the project plan based on discussion and agreement between the Bank, the
Government, the implementing agencies, and other donors, such as the ADB and the
JICA. Some dropped activities were completed in-house by the Power Cell or executed
by other donors. New activities were added based on emerging demands, such as for
partial support to prepare new investment projects. Ultimately, an extension of the project
period from the planned four and a half to eight and a half years was necessary for the
project to make greater progress towards its objectives. This reflected an overly
                                            41


ambitious timeline given the initial institutional endowment and the overall challenging
context in which the project was implemented.

3.45   Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

3.46 The government’s performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. On the
positive side, there was consistent commitment displayed to the project objectives and the
broader sector agenda. This was reiterated in various public forums and formal
documents, including the annual review of the Three-Year Power Reform Road Map.
The Government assigned high-level officials to guide and review the project, and
constituting a high-level Project Steering Committee, headed by the Principal Secretary
in the Prime Minister’s Office to review policy recommendations arising from the project
activities. A Task Force headed by the Secretary, Power Division, was established to
provide more frequent operational guidance and coordination for the project. The
Government also undertook to establish and functionalize BERC as one of the
implementing agencies of the project, though this was done later than planned, in 2007.

3.47 The flow of public funds to the sector was regularly communicated to the sector
stakeholders, development partners and people at large through websites. The websites of
the Government, BERC and the utilities published power and gas sector statistics,
progress, procurement, and other necessary information for greater transparency and
access to information on the sector. However, there was no significant attempt to gather
quantitative information on customer satisfaction and public perception on sector
performance.

3.48 The Government displayed inability to move ahead with the SZPDC
corporatization, and there was general backtracking on corporatization in the power
sector.

3.49 There were frequent changes in the core management staff of the Power Cell and
delayed operationalization of BERC by the Government contributed to project
implementation delays.

3.50 The implementing agencies’ performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
project was implemented by the Power Cell, BERC and PetroBangla, all staffed with
qualified personnel. The three implementing agencies collaborated well under the
leadership of the Power Cell. They kept close communication with the Bank, and
showed flexibility in amending the activities in order to comply with the project
development objectives. The technical capacity of all three agencies was enhanced by
training programs and on-the-job-training from international consultants provided
through the project. A key shortcoming, however, was the somewhat high turnover rate in
the Power Cell and BERC due to the issuance of shorter-term contracts that is typical in
civil service, making it difficult to retain some of the trained staff. This leaves
sustainability of the project outcomes in capacity building as a challenge if no mitigation
measures are taken.
                                                   42


3.51    Overall, Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.52 M&E Design. The results framework originally set out seven key indicators 27: 1)
Adoption Power sector policies (particularly for underpinning financial recovery, faster
access for all, and private participation); 2) Regulatory processes put in place, particularly
for power tariff-setting and quality-of-service monitoring; 3) Improved public perception
of the power sector’s performance and customer satisfaction; 4) Corporate governance
structures and policies put in place for at least two power enterprises; 5) Updated Gas
Sector Master Plan and Strategy (GSMPS) for meeting gas demand from power, industry
and other sectors; 6) Management and operation of at least two power enterprises
improved through the participation of global experts; 7) Monitoring, reporting, and
invoicing of power flows between “unbundled” enterprises based on accurate metering.

3.53 Of the above indicators only three were in the nature of outcomes/intermediate
outcomes – improved public perception/customer satisfaction; improved management of
at least two power plants; and power flows between unbundled enterprises. The
remaining indicators were in the nature of outputs – adoption of polices, processes, gas
sector strategy; and corporate governance structures/policies. Specific baseline and target
values for the indicators were provided in April 2005, a year after appraisal, and the
target values were finalized in November 2006.

3.54 The project does not define its objective of “balanced development” which should
have been the basis of the M&E framework with appropriate outcome indicators. In this
assessment, the “balanced development” of the sector is inferred from a range of
technical, financial and access parameters.

3.55 M&E Implementation. The Government set up mechanisms for M&E as it was
designed, which consisted of monitoring scheduled activities and outputs, or routine
reporting on operations such as metering power flows. The Government’s Task Force for
power sector reform, chaired by the Power Secretary, regularly reviewed the progress of
project activities, outputs and policy recommendations.

3.56 M&E Utilization. The M&E design was simple and mainly output-based, as
explained under ‘M&E design’. These output indicators as well as regular information
on electricity sector technical and financial parameters appear to have been collected
regularly and fed back to decision-makers. The websites of the MPEMR, BERC and the
utilities published power and gas statistics which provided greater transparency and
access to information in the sector. Information on public perception/customer
satisfaction was ad-hoc in nature, with no systematic surveys. Therefore no quantitative
results were available that could be tracked over time and used as a basis for corrective
actions or improving decision-making. Power flows between unbundled enterprises
could not be tracked as envisaged as the installation of meters is still incomplete.

27
  Indicators 2 and 3, and indicators 4 and 6 were merged in 2005 and 2006 respectively, following regional
guidance for all projects. However, the original seven indicators were reported on by the project’s
implementation completion report.
                                             43


3.57   Overall, M&E is rated modest.

4. Power Sector Development Policy Credit
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

4.1     The development objective of the Power Sector Development Policy Credit is
stated in its Program document as “the enhancement of governance and accountability,
and of financial stability, in the sector leading to better and more sustainable service
provision.” The Financing Agreement for the Credit refers to but does not spell out the
program objective.

The project development objective packs multiple outcomes in its statement. This
assessment divides the project development objective into three outcome based
statements to enable a clear evaluation:

       1. Enhanced governance and accountability in the power sector;
       2. Enhanced financial stability in the power sector; and
       3. Better and more sustainable service provision in the power sector

The objectives as stated above are clearly interlinked with the overarching outcome
amounting to better and more sustainable service provision in the power sector.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

4.2     The Relevance of Objectives is rated High. At credit appraisal in 2007,
Bangladesh’s faced a vastly inadequate power supply to meet the demands of a growing
economy, and a growing gap between costs and revenues in the power sector.
Governance problems and political considerations were holding the Government back
from commissioning significant new generation capacity and charging cost-recovery
tariffs. The full range of procurement processes whether geared to public investment or
to attract private investment in generation – had become less transparent over time.
Corruption was also a problem at the customer interface, often in the form of collusion
between large customers and selected distribution utility managers, resulting in diversion
of revenue and placing further pressure on utility operating margins. The Government
compensated the largely state-owned and operated sector (in this case mainly BPDB as
the bulk electricity supplier) for underpricing of electricity, though this was done in an ad
hoc and unpredictable manner.

4.3    Against this background the Government prepared a Power Sector Reform Road
Map (April 2008) which contained policy measures for financial stability, accountability
and improved service provision in the sector. The Development Policy Credit that is
being assessed was aligned with these policy measures. It was also aligned with the
Country Partnership Strategy for the period (FY2006-09) which highlighted the need to
improve access to and quality of infrastructure services, by strengthening sector
governance and encouraging greater private sector participation.
                                              44


DESIGN

4.4       The project comprised the following components:

Pillar 1. Institutions of accountability

      •   Approving service rules, organization chart, and table of equipment for the
          Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission;
      •   Registering the South Zone Power Distribution Company as a public limited
          company; and
      •   Completing the short-listing for the Bibiyana independent power producer (IPP)

Pillar 2. Financial sustainability of the power sector

      •   Transferring BDT500 million per month to the Bangladesh Power Development
          Board (BPDB) and implementing the first phase of the financial restructuring
          plan;
      •   Issuing the tender for the supply and installation and implementation support for
          large customer metering in South Zone; and
      •   Issuing the tender for the new strategy for the Rural Electrification Board.

4.5    Implementation Arrangements. The implementing agencies were the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Power, Energy, and Mineral Resources (MPEMR)
operating mainly through its Power Cell, as well as BPDB, SZPDC, BERC and REB.
The Power Cell, supported by a transaction advisor, assisted with the procurement for
Bibiyana IPP and automated meter reading equipment for SZPDC.

Relevance of Design

4.6     The Relevance of Design is rated Modest. The project design appropriately
diagnosed the crucial areas to be addressed for improving electricity service provision for
beneficiaries. These covered the long-standing governance issues at different levels, and
the financial sustainability of sector operations, which were interlinked to a great degree
and which together impacted electricity service provision.

4.7     The specific actions that were attempted under Pillar I and II (Institutions of
Accountability and Financial Sustainability) contained a mix of medium term and long-
term measures to improve governance and financial sustainability that would yield better
electricity service provision. Thus, ultimate beneficiaries would benefit from the
reduction of losses in the existing power supply through introduction of a large customer
metering unit at South Zone Distribution Company (to isolate and better serve the 2
percent of customers responsible for 40 percent of energy consumption), and the
procurement of automated metering technology to reduce commercial losses from this
subset of customers to zero; and the implementation of good corporate governance
practices at SZPDC; and adopting a new rural strategy that would ring-fence REB from
political pressures and adhere to its master plan and the use of objective criteria for
expansion of new lines.
                                            45


4.8      Operational and financial sustainability would benefit in the short and medium
term by securing timely payment to existing IPP providers through assured budgetary
transfers to BPDB, thus safeguarding on-time delivery contracted of power supply. This
would be done in parallel with strengthening the regulatory agency to undertake rational
tariff revisions, and completing and implementing a Financial Restructuring Plan.
Introducing a transparent and competitive process for procuring new IPP contracts, using
Bibiyana as a test case and a confidence building measure would lay the foundation for
longer term operational sustainability by attracting much need private investment in the
generation sector.

4.9     While the project design was logical and comprehensive, the reasons for going in
for a single- rather than multi-tranche credit are not convincing. In retrospect, too much
weight was given to quickly build upon the openness and commitment displayed by the
Caretaker Government to the Credit objectives. The complexity of this Credit operation
in the context of the Bangladesh power sector’s existing institutional capacity and
readiness, would have called for a multi-tranche operation which might have resulted in a
different design.

Implementation

PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS

4.10 Project costs remained unchanged at SDR 73.7 million from appraisal to
disbursement and the actual closing date matched the planned closing date of March 31,
2009.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

4.11 The Credit was negotiated in June 2008 with an interim Care Taker Government
that had replaced an elected civilian government for two years. The Care Taker
Government displayed openness and commitment to implement needed reforms and to
bring transparency to economic decision-making during Credit preparation and appraisal,
but became less flexible in its approach after elections were notified in July 2008, leading
to a slowdown in the momentum that had been build up by the Credit thus far.

4.12 Two activities were especially affected – the Bibiyana IPP and South Zone
Corporatization. The Bibiyana award was cancelled outright in November 2008. The
corporatization effort for South Zone continued but key processes did not move quickly.
It took some time to establish the search committee to select independent directors for
and to operationalize the Board.

4.13 The pace of implementation did not increase despite complementary and parallel
projects including the Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project (the
second project reviewed in this report) and a multi-sectoral single tranche budget support
operation, the Transition Support Credit (TSC), which addressed critical longstanding
weaknesses in core governance functions.

4.14 Safeguards. There is no discussion of any likely environmental or social
safeguard issues arising out of this credit in the Program Document. As a Development
                                            46


Policy Credit this operation is subject to the Bank’s Operations Policy 8.60 by which the
Bank is expected to determine whether specific country policies supported by an
operation are likely to have significant social or environmental consequences, and if so,
how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during program
implementation. The Program Document could have made a statement to this effect.

4.15 Financial Management. There were no concerns reported in respect of financial
management or reporting for the Credit. Procurement of the automated meter-reading
equipment was not handled effectively by centralized entities, and MPEMR transferred
this responsibility to the Chittagong-based SZPDC. There were significant lessons
learned about how metering specifications are vulnerable to manipulation and these and
other lessons were expected to be incorporated into the re-tendering effort. Achievement
of the Objectives

Objective 1. Enhanced governance and accountability in Bangladesh’s Power
Sector. Rated Modest.

4.16 BERC: Regulatory institutional reform and strengthening. The reform action
supported here was the operationalization of the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory
Commission (BERC). During the Credit period, the BERC’s Board of Directors was
appointed and was provided with the necessary staff complement. Technical assistance
was provided to BERC through the Bank’s parallel technical assistance project (Power
Sector Development Technical Assistance Project, the second project reviewed in this
report).

4.17 The outcome of the overall support to BERC is clear from the discussion relating
to the relevant objective under the Technical Assistance project (see paras 3.26 to 3.32).
Feedback from Government officials suggests some positive features of BERC’s
functioning in effecting periodic tariff adjustments and involving and educating the
public on the need to charge remunerative tariffs. Other feedback suggests that this
progress is outweighed by political interference in functional decision-making and
staffing, and lack of financial autonomy, which constraints BERC’s independence and
effectiveness. BERC’s organization chart is specified by the Government’s human
resources department, and staff at the Deputy Director level and above is seconded from
other sections of the Government. BERC does not have any leeway in providing
incentives for retaining staff, which would be possible with greater financial autonomy
(based on license fees collected by BERC) and greater freedom in staffing decisions.
Current tenure for BERC’s head is relatively short, with BERC‘s head being appointed
for three years compared to the five year norm for the corresponding regulator in India,
for instance.

4.18 BERC has yet to formulate service standards for electricity services, and enforce
them as a means of protecting the interests of the consumers. Provisions for consumer
complaints and a response mechanism are not evident. Public hearings appeared to be
perceived as post-facto public relations exercises after tariff decisions have been made.
Much more needs to be done in raising awareness among consumers on the regulatory
system. Overall, BERC has a long way to go to discharge its responsibilities in the spirit
                                             47


of the legislative act through which it was established over ten years ago in on March 13,
2003.

4.19 Corporate governance of state-owned enterprises in the power sector. The
process of corporatization was completed for the North West Power Generation Co.,
Ashuganj Power Station Co., Dhaka Power Distribution Co. and Electricity Generation
Co. of Bangladesh. Parallel work on corporate governance policy was initiated through
the IDA-financed Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project and additionally covered the Power
Grid Corporation of Bangladesh (PGCB), and the Gas Transmission Company Limited
(GTCL). Feedback to the mission from EGCB officials suggests that matters relating to
governance and management effectiveness are progressing well after corporatization in
their company. The project team informs us that the corporatization process appears to
be similarly internalized in the other entities.

4.20 However, there has been limited progress or even reversal in the corporatization
of the distribution companies in the South, North West and Central zones. The reversal
appears to be the most serious in the South Zone Power Distribution Corporation
(SZPDC) which accounts for about 20 percent of the distribution load in the country.
The governance issues in the South Zone received particular attention at appraisal. The
reform plan for SZPDC had also involved the creation of a dedicated unit for large
customers (1,200 out of 650,000 total, who account for 40% of energy sales despite
representing only 2% of the customer base), and the introduction of automated meter-
reading equipment (discussed below).

4.21 At project completion there had been some encouraging signs with the
appointment of the SZPDC board and the election of a Chairman after two unsuccessful
attempts. Discussions with the Government officials and the projects suggest that the
Board is no longer functional and the status of the proposed SZPDC remains the same as
existed before the project. This trend does not bode well for the overall corporatization
effort in the power sector.

4.22 Private sector participation in power generation. The process of short-listing the
bidders for the Bibiyana IPP was completed in March 2008; and despite diligence by
reputed transaction advisers, only one qualified bid was received. Considering this to be
insufficient, and worried at how an award to a lone bidder would be perceived by the
incoming Government, the tender was re-issued in January 2009 in the hope that there
would be competitive bidding from more than one bidder. However, even four years
after Credit closure, there has been no further movement in awarding the Bibiyana IPP.

Objective 2. Enhanced financial stability in Bangladesh’s Power Sector. Rated
Modest.

Power Sector Financial Restructuring. The Credit program document does not define
how financial sustainability would be measured. IEG notes that the sector's financial
situation has deteriorated significantly since Credit closure. Since the Credit closure, net
losses for BPDB have increased from BDT 6.4 billion in 2009-2010 to BDT 67.0 billion
in 2011-12, and eased somewhat (perhaps due to recent tariff increases) but still
extremely high at BDT 50.4 billion in 2012-2013. As a percentage of operating revenue,
                                             48


these numbers accounted for 9 percent, 56 percent and 30 percent respectively (see
Annex D Table 2 for details). Overall, the goal of financial sustainability is a distant
prospect.

4.23 To compensate for un-remunerative tariffs, the government has provided
budgetary support to BPDB of BDT 9.9 billion in 2009-10, BDT 63.6 billion in 2011-12,
and BDT 44.1 billion in 2012-13. The transfers have permitted timely payment to the
independent power producers and to rental power providers. This is a major departure
from the pre-Credit situation when budgetary support was inconsistent, and has now
helped with stable provision of power in a situation of scarcity.

4.24 Transparency and accountability in service provision. The Credit had provided
for the procurement of system and interface metering equipment to strengthening the
commercial interface between power generation, transmission and distribution entities.
This would help the preparation of suitable contracts between these entities and reliable
metering of power flows between them as well as improving internal controls within an
entity in which management arrangements include incentives for improved performance.

4.25 The program document had envisioned that the contract for the meters would be
awarded by December 2008, that the metering installation to be 35 percent complete by
March 2009, and that the commercial losses from the large customers would be reduced
to zero. The procurement of the automated meter-reading equipment was not handled
effectively by the Power Cell/BPDB, and the Ministry has made a decision to ensure that
further procurement efforts would be undertaken by the Chittagong-based SZPDC. The
contract for the supply and installation of the meters had still not been awarded four years
after the Credit closure. Financing of the meters is now provided for in the proposed
South Zone Power Distribution Project.

4.26 Restructuring of REB Business Model. This reform involved the launch of a
study to review the key drivers of REB’s recent financial and operational decline, after
years of success and citation as a model of international good practice for rural access
expansion. The study is in progress. An interim report has presented the need for change
to business as usual, before rural access can be sustainably expanded. At the heart of this
strategy effort is the question of how REB will be structured to fulfill its mandate; the key
issue, which evolved over the course of the last decade, has been the politicization of the
Board its effective capture by the bureaucracy. The question now is whether or not some
form of corporatization and a greater focus on commercial performance measures, can
get REB back to a state of technical competence and accountability.

Objective 3. Improving Service Provision. Rated Modest.

In the absence of a definition of ‘improved service provision’ in the project documents,
this assessment looks at some parameters that can be considered appropriate outcomes
under this objective, while noting the difficulty of attributing them to the Credit operation
to any degree. Overall, the number of people connected to electricity through grid and
off-grid means has risen from 44 percent in 2008 to 62 percent in 2013. Total installed
capacity has risen by 90 percent from over this period to 9,500 MW. But the power
deficit (peak demand minus maximum generation) has widened from 1,439 MW to 1,849
                                                       49


MW in 2013. This is reflected in load shedding which was 1,058 MW in 2012, nearly the
same as in 2012. This does not present a favorable picture for sustainable service
provision. (Table 1)

                Table 1: Power Generation Capacity Development, 2008-13
               MW                        2008        2009          2010       2011      2012      2013
 Installed capacity                      5,201       5,719         5,823      7,264     8,716     9,500
 Of which: rental basis *                 58          351           548       1,685     2,149     2,449
 Maximum generation                      4,130       4,162         4,606      4,890     6,066     6,500
 Peak demand                             5,569       6,066         6,454      6,765     7,518     8,349
 Surplus / (Deficit)                    (1,439)     (1,904)       (1,848)    (1,875)   (1,452)   (1,849)
 Load shedding                           1,049       1,269         1,459      1,335     1,058      n.a.
 Source: BPDB Reports; * Diesel or fuel oil based and mostly private owned


Efficiency
Not rated for DPLs

Ratings
OUTCOME

4.27 Overall project outcome is rated Unsatisfactory. The Relevance of the Credit
objectives and its design are rated high. Bangladesh’s power sector clearly faces major
constraints in improving overall electricity service provision, and financial sustainability
and governance are priority areas for intervention to improve the power situation.
Efficacy of each of the three project objectives is rated modest, with little progress
towards solvency in the sector and a continuing high level of government subsidies that
may not be sustainable. Important actions in the process of corporatization, especially of
SZPDC have seen a slowdown or a reversal, casting doubts on the seriousness of the
government in improving overall governance in the power sector. The sector regulator
BERC, is yet to attain sufficient administrative and financial autonomy to do justice to its
mandate. Overall Development Outcome is rated unsatisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

4.28 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
High. In the four years since the Credit was closed, the Government’s commitment to
power sector reforms covered by the operation appears to have lessened or even been
reversed in several respects. Most importantly, the roll-back on the corporatization of
SZDPC, which accounts for a significant share of electricity distribution in the country,
and was diagnosed to have governance issues, sends a negative signal to the power
sector, lenders and donors, especially after several positive steps have already been
painstakingly taken for unbundling, corporatization, and tariff regulation over the years.
Taken together with a lack of progress in procuring automated meters (which were
intended to make measurement of consumption accurate and transparent), and in
establishing the large customer unit at SZPDC, the originally planned corporatization and
governance goals have clearly stalled.
                                             50


4.29 The Government has not been able to put its act together for the Bibiyana IPP,
again over four years after project completion, and there are no fresh and significant
indications that this may change soon. This does not bode well for attracting private
sector investment in generation on a large scale, without which it will not be possible for
the country to make any significant headway towards its ambitious target of universal
electricity access by 2021.

4.30     BERC’s independence and effectiveness have been impacted negatively since the
completion of the Credit. Unless political interference is reduced in its staffing and
decision-making processes, and it is allowed autonomy to finance itself through license
fees (which is provided for in the enabling legislative act) it is unlikely that BERC will be
able to retain the right capacity and tone expected of an independent regulator.

4.31 Continued resistance to corporatization from entities such as the BPDB and the
South Zone Corporation gives cause for concern. At the moment, the Government has
been unable to overcome resistance to corporatization. Instead, the Government is
promoting the SBU or separate business unit model, which establishes separate business
units with independent decision-making power on business operations and clearly defined
accountability. Under this model, however, the Government needs to make continuous
efforts to accomplish adoption of key performance indicators (KPIs) for its targeted
SBUs (to maintain accountability, transparency, and good governance) and to monitor,
evaluate, and fix responsibility every six months. At this moment, without a market test,
it is uncertain whether the SBU model with KPIs will take firm hold in the energy sector.

BANK PERFORMANCE

4.32 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank’s
performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank team took into
account lessons learned from the previous series of Development Support Credits, where
the energy sector had been one reform area out of many. The team also acted
opportunistically with a very reform-minded, although short-lived, caretaker
administration. It was appropriate to have designed a sector-specific reform oriented
Credit operation rather than be part of a multi-sector operation. The critical state of the
sector and the need for high-impact reforms, and the Care Taker Government’s
commitment to initiate the reforms, weighed strongly with the Bank in initiating this
Credit. The risk of reversal of the reforms by an incoming government was judged to be
low, based on historical precedence. However, several risks that were identified at
appraisal were realized during implementation: (a) the politicization of key appointments
to new institutions, (b) the obstruction of reform by vested interests, (c)
procurement/other procedural delays, and (d) frequent transfers of ministry and agency
key officers. Consequently there was resistance to and delay in the implementation of the
corporatization of power companies.

4.33 In retrospect, the complexity of the operation and the institutional readiness of
Bangladesh’s power sector may have been better addressed by a multi-tranche operation.
The assessment that the incoming Government would not roll back the reforms provide
given the uncertainties discussed in the section on ‘risk to development outcome.’
                                           51


4.34 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The team was proactive in identifying issues and threats to the achievement
of the project development objective. After the formation of the new Government the
Bank team undertook a supervision mission in January 2009, and briefed them on the
progress under the Credit and the pending actions to achieve the monitorable indicators
as set out in the reform matrix. Most importantly, the supervision mission also provided
updated data on the state of sector finances, which was an important analytical input to
the incoming policymakers and put the reform program in perspective. The Dhaka based
Bank team maintained continuous interaction and dialogue with the Government on
power sector issues. The team members were able to proactively raise critical issues with
the Government and sector institutions at critical junctures, and make attempts to resolve
them, though the impact of these interventions were limited due to various factors as
discussed under the section of ‘risk to development outcome’ (paras 4.28-4.31). For
instance, the Bank team worked with the Government to find solutions to ensure that the
IPP process remained transparent and to enable IDA funding support, though ultimately
there was not much progress on the Bibiyana IPP.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

4.35 The government’s performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The Credit was
appraised during the tenure of the Caretaker Government which showed commitment to
the sector reform objectives of the Credit through the appraisal process and the initial
period of implementation. Six months after the credit was declared effective, a newly
elected Government came into power in December 2008. During the transition period
after elections were first announced, the momentum for reform began to slow down. This
was most evident in the Caretaker government’s reluctance to go ahead with the Bibiyana
IPP as explained in the section on “implementation experience” (para 4.11-4.13).
Following credit closure, the Government appears to have pulled back on the
corporatization effort and metering activity as they relate to the important entity of
SZPDC, having very negative implications for both the governance and financial
sustainability objectives of the Credit operation. In the four years following Credit
closure, the prospect of an independent and effective BERC is unlikely to be realized
unless it is insulated from undue political interference and given greater administrative
and financial autonomy. The government has yet to display urgency with respect to the
implementation of the Financial Restructuring Plan which is a crucial tool for moving
towards financial sustainability. The lone positive feature appears to be the timely
release of agreed budgetary allocations to BPDB to enable timely payment to IPPs and
gas companies, though this at best an interim measure while the power sector is put on
the road to financial sustainability.

4.36 The implementing agencies’ performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The implementing agencies below the ministry-level were the Power Cell, BPDB,
SZPDC, BERC and REB. The Power Cell (supported by a transaction advisor) assisted
with the procurement for Bibiyana IPP, and for automated meter reading equipment for
SZPDC. Both procurements did not lead to contract award; in the former case, the Power
Cell was not responsible for the decision to re-tender (as the decision was taken at the
higher Government levels). However, in the case of meters procurement, the Power Cell
did not fully discharge its responsibilities to oversee a transparent procurement process,
                                            52


and as a result of improper specifications contained in the bidding documents, the
contract could not be awarded.

4.37 BPDB’s IPP cell has effected timely payments to power and gas suppliers. BPDB
has also worked closely with the consultants for the Financial Restructuring Plan in
advancing implementation of key non-price recommendations i.e. cleaning up its own
balance sheet as well as those of corporatized entities, which have inherited assets and
liabilities from BPDB that were in some cases never reconciled. However, there is much
work to be done in cleaning and updating meaningful financial statements for the
corporatized entities so that they are in a position to provide justification for tariff
increases based on allowable rates of return on assets.

4.38 As discussed in several sections above (‘achievement of objectives’ and ’risk to
development outcome’) SZPDC has slipped farther behind in the four years after Credit
closure in respect of corporatization and making any serious attempt at procuring
automated meter reading equipment. It is recognized that progress in these important
matters is dependent on favorable signals from higher Government decision making
levels.

4.39 BERC continues to face constraints from political interference in its staffing,
scope of work, and financial autonomy, which is compromising its ability to act as an
independent, technocratic agency. However, the organization has gained experience in
the process of effecting tariff increases, consulting and educating the public, and in
performing its function of issuing licenses to power sector entities.

4.40 REB is aware of the need for organizational restructuring and a new business
model, and is awaiting action on the consultant study which should provide some
recommendations to this effect. REB’s operations have been politicized in the last few
years, and the entity would need some unambiguous signals from the Government to the
operational, financial and technical competence and results that it has displayed in the
past.

4.41   Overall, the Borrower’s performance is rated Unsatisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

4.42 M&E Design. The M&E indicators proposed by the Credit corresponded to the
prior reform actions for the Credit: improvement in sector finances; performance of the
distribution utility; and functioning of the regulatory framework (all of which related to
financial sustainability), and introduction of non-arbitrary, transparent governance
processes (related to governance and accountability). During project implementation. In
April 2008, the government updated its 3-Year Road Map for Power Sector Reform
which described the initiatives for reform and set targets and six-month rolling goals for
the process between January 2008 and December 2010. The six-month rolling goals had
performance indicators for transmission and distribution losses, bill collection, financial
ratios and arrears. The 3-Year Road Map did not set targets for acceptable levels of
financial losses.
                                            53


4.43 “Service provision” – which this assessment considers to be the main outcome of
the project – is not clearly defined in the project documents. At most the following
indicators from the results framework can be seen to be related to this outcome:
electricity sales (Gigawatt-hours); average number of customers ('000s); and retail (retail
tariff)

4.44 M&E Implementation. The various quantitative indicators that were provided
for in the original M&E design were amenable to routine observation and collection.
Other indicators related to milestones in completing planned activities and were simple to
track. M&E was implemented to this extent as designed.

4.45 M&E Utilization. There is a regular flow of financial and technical information
on the power sector to decision makers in the ministry and various power sector entities
as an input to overall sector management. However, data related to service provision is
not clearly defined, and there is no systematic feedback mechanism for this important
outcome expected from the project.

4.46   Overall, M&E is rated modest.



5. Lessons
The following lessons are drawn from the experience with the three operations that have
been assessed in this report.

A. Off-grid household electrification can accelerate the benefits of “lighting” in a
   cost-effective manner, to populations that face uncertain waiting periods for
   grid-based electricity, or are unlikely to obtain grid-based electricity due to
   remote or inaccessible locations. The RERED project experience shows that
   potential beneficiaries can respond well to ownership-based Solar Household System
   schemes, and factor in the likelihood of gaining access to grid-based electricity at a
   later stage.

B. A public-private partnership model can efficiently deliver large-scale and
   dispersed off-grid electricity services, by deploying public funding through
   private sector stakeholders. Flexibility to adapt to market conditions and signals are
   the hallmarks of this model, while quality assurance and after-sales and maintenance
   service mechanisms are a necessity for acceptance by beneficiaries.

C. One-off technical assistance or credit support operations should be highly
   strategic, selective and practical in supporting policy and institutional issues of a
   complex nature. The PSD Technical assistance project took on an ambitious agenda
   covering power sector policies, regulation, industry structure and private sector
   participation, and struggled to get traction on any of these matters.

D. Similarly to Lesson C, One-off Credit operations cannot be expected to make
   headway on multiple policy fronts in a sector, especially if these issues have some
                                            54


   commonalities with other sectors. The Power Sector Development Policy Credit
   single-tranche operation covered complex issues of governance and financial
   sustainability, which were difficult to resolve to any significant extent in a program of
   short duration.

E. Achieving broader social and economic outcomes from electricity access
   provision will primarily depend upon the pursuit of a least cost path for grid
   expansion backed by appropriate sector policies, complemented by off-grid
   electricity in the interim or permanently as needed. While Bangladesh has
   demonstrated impressive growth in Solar Home Systems and continues to pursue this
   path for improving access to electricity, it needs to keep in mind that off-grid
   electrification can inherently provide only a limited range of services to beneficiaries
   compared to grid-based electricity. Achieving broader social and economic outcomes
   from electricity provision will primarily depend upon the pursuit of a least cost path
   for grid expansion for which persisting policy and regulatory bottlenecks have to be
   resolved.
                                         55


References
1. World Bank. 2009. Welfare Impacts of Rural Electrification A Case Study from
   Bangladesh, Policy Research Working Paper 4859, The World Bank Development
   Research Group Sustainable Rural and Urban Development Team, March 2009

2. Energy Policy, 2010. “Are micro-benefits negligible? The implications of the rapid
   expansion of Solar Home Systems (SHS) in rural Bangladesh for sustainable
   development”.

3. Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources, Government of the People’s
   Republic of Bangladesh. 2010. Three-Year Road Map for Power Sector Reform
   (July 2009 – June 2012), June 2010, Power Division.

4. Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources, Government of the People’s
   Republic of Bangladesh. 2010. Power System Master Plan.

5. IEG. 2008. The Welfare Impact of Rural Electrification: A Reassessment of the
   Costs and Benefits. An IEG Impact Evaluation.

6. Rural Electrification Board 2006. Midterm Report: Socio-Economic Monitoring &
   Impact Evaluation of Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Program,

7. Rural Electrification Board 2010. Final Report: Follow-Up (Panel) Survey of Socio-
   Economic Monitoring & Impact Evaluation of Rural Electrification and Renewable
   Energy Program, 2010.

8. Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies. 2012. Research Team: An Evaluation
   of the Impacts of Solar Home Systems in Bangladesh.
                                                56


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development
(Credit IDA-36790, IDA-46430, IDA-50130, TF-51301)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)

                                          Appraisal             Actual or          Actual as % of
                                          estimate           current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            780.9              758.85                 97%
Loan amount (IDA)                              492.98             462.86                 94%
Grant (GEF)                                     8.20               8.19                  100%
Cofinancing                                      -                  -                     -
Cancellation                                     -                  -                     -



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P071794)

                           FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate         2.0   4.6    8.2      10.3     11.5    12.0     12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               0    0.0    0.9       1.8      2.7    5.3      9.7    11.2   12.7   12.7
Actual as % of appraisal    0     1      11          18    24     44       81     94     106    106
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P074040)

                           FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate         2.0   4.6    8.2      10.3     11.5    12.0     12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               0    0.0    0.9       1.8      2.7    5.3      9.7    11.2   12.7   12.7
Actual as % of appraisal    0     1      11          18    24     44       81     94     106    106
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010


Project Dates (P071794)

                                                      Original                      Actual
Appraisal                                            02/26/2002                   02/26/2002
Board approval                                       06/25/2002                   06/25/2002
Effectiveness                                        12/31/2002                   12/31/2002
Closing date                                         06/30/2008                   12/31/2012
                                   57



Project Dates (P074040)
                                        Original                   Actual
Appraisal                            06/06/2001                 06/06/2001
Board approval                       06/25/2002                 06/25/2002
Effectiveness                        01/15/2003                 12/31/2002
Closing date                         12/31/2007                 12/31/2009



Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                           USD ‘000 (including travel
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                          and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY01                                 48                      131.35
   FY02                                 52                      290.77
   FY03                                                          -0.31
   FY04                                                           0.00
   FY05                                                           0.00
   FY06                                                           0.00
   FY07                                                           0.00
   FY08                                                           0.00
                Total:               100                        421.81
Supervision/ICR
   FY01                                                           0.00
   FY02                                                           0.00
   FY03                              52                         167.82
   FY04                              48                         111.33
   FY05                              31                         107.36
   FY06                              22                          63.12
   FY07                              20                         137.70
   FY08                              17                          88.15
   FY09                              45                           0.00
             Total:                  235                        675.48
                                               58


Task Team Members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                              Title               Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Subramaniam V. Iyer            Sr. Financial Analyst                     TTL
Chandrasekar Govindarajalu     Energy Specialist
Md. Iqbal                      Energy Specialist
Chrisantha Ratnayake           Sr. Power Engineer
Kishor Uprety                  Sr. Counsel
Suraiya Zannath                Sr. Financial Management
                               Specialist
Mohamnmad Sayeed               Disbursement Officer
Sumith Pilapitiya              Sr. Engineer
Douglas Barnes                 Sr. Energy Specialist
Zafrul Islam                   Sr. Procurement Specialist
Raihan Elahi                   Energy Finance Specialist
Tuntivate Voravate             Consultant
Hasna Khan                     Consultant
Anwar Hossain                  Consultant
Adam Harvey                    Consultant
Paul Van Aalst                 Consultant
Alfred Friendly                Consultant-Editor
Zibun Nessa Pinu               Team Assistant
Anna Goodman                   Program Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Aminur Rahman Chowdhury        Consultant                        SARFM
Arun Banerjee                  Consultant                        SASDI
Ashok Sarkar                   Senior Energy Specialist          SEGEN
Burhanuddin Ahmed              Sr Financial Management Specia    SARFM
Chrisantha Ratnayake           Consultant                        AFTG1
Christopher James Warner       Sr Technical Spec.                CPFCF
Erik Magnus Fernstrom          Senior Energy Specialist          AFTG2
Fabio Pittaluga                Senior Social Development Spec    LCSSO
Katherine Deaton Steel         Energy Specialist                 AFTG2
Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies        Sector Manager, Energy            LCSEG
Md. Abul Fayez Khan            Program Assistant                 SASDO
Md. Faijul Islam               Information Analyst               SARIM
Md. Iqbal                      Senior Energy Specialist          SASDE
Mildred Gonsalvez              Program Assistant                 EASPW
Mohammad Abdullah
                               Consultant                        SASDA
Sadeque
Mohammad Mahbubur
                               Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Rahman
Nilufar Ahmad                  Consultant                        SASDU
Nusrat Jahan                   Consultant                        SARFM
Prasad V. S. N. Tallapragada   Consultant                        AFTG1
                                                    59


                                                                                     Responsibility/
            Names                                  Title                     Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
Ravindra Anil Cabraal           Consultant                                 SASDE
Rosanna Chan                    Economist                                  SASFP
Saif Quadir                     Temporary                                  SASDE
Shahidur R. Khandker            Lead Economist                             DECAR
Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi           Senior Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Sheikh Naveed Uddin
                                Consultant                                 SASHN
Ahmed
Subodh C. Mathur                Consultant                                 AFTG2
Sumith Pilapitiya               Lead Environmental Specialist              SASDI
Toufiq Ahmed                    Senior Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Voravate Tuntivate              E T Consultant                             EASWE
Zibun Nessa Pinu                Program Assistant                          SARPS
Zubair K.M. Sadeque             Senior Energy Specialist                   SASDE TTL

Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
(IDA-39130, IDA-H0920)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                        Appraisal                  Actual or         Actual as % of
                                        estimate                current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                15.5               14.6                 94%
Loan amount (IDA)                                   7.1               6.0                  85%
Grant (IDA)                                         8.4               8.6                  100%
Cofinancing                                          -                 -                    -
Cancellation                                         -                 -                    -



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                           FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate         2.0      4.6      8.2     10.3     11.5   12.0    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               0       0.0      0.9      1.8     2.7    5.3      9.7   11.2   12.7   12.7
Actual as % of appraisal    0       1        11          18   24     44       81    94     106    106
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010
                                            60


Project Dates
                                                 Original                   Actual
Appraisal                                     03/03/2004                  03/03/2004
Board approval                                06/03/2004                  06/03/2004
Effectiveness                                 10/31/2004                  10/31/2004
Closing date                                  12/31/2008                  12/31/2012



Staff Time and Cost

                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                    US$ ‘000s (including travel
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                   and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY03                                          33                       113.20
   FY04                                          38                       125.51
   FY05                                                                    0.00
   FY06                                                                    0.00
   FY07                                                                    0.00
   FY08                                                                    0.00
                               Total:            71                       238.71
Supervision/ICR
   FY03                                                                     0.00
   FY04                                                                     0.00
   FY05                                       30                           56.14
   FY06                                       40                           31.56
   FY07                                       22                           25.88
   FY08                                       36                           87.32
   FY09                                       29                           89.40
   FY10                                       27                          233.14
   FY11                                       39                          160.35
   FY12                                       52                          212.57
   FY13                                       33                          151.91
                               Total:         308                        1048.27
                                                61


Power Sector Development Policy Credit
(IDA-44360)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                        Appraisal               Actual or         Actual as % of
                                        estimate             current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             73.7               73.7                 100%
Loan amount (IDA)                               73.7               73.7                 100%
Cofinancing                                      -                  -                      -
Cancellation                                     -                  -                      -

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                      FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate         2.0      4.6   8.2    10.3     11.5    12.0    12.0   12.0     12.0   12.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)              0        0.0   0.9     1.8      2.7    5.3     9.7    11.2     12.7   12.7
Actual as % of appraisal   0         1    11         18    24     44      81     94       106    106
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010

Project Dates
                                                      Original                     Actual
Appraisal                                            03/03/2004                  03/03/2004
Board approval                                       06/03/2004                  06/03/2004
Effectiveness                                        10/31/2004                  10/31/2004
Closing date                                         12/31/2008                  12/31/2012

Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ ‘000s (including travel
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                     and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY03                                              33                          113.20
   FY04                                              38                          125.51
   FY05                                                                           0.00
   FY06                                                                           0.00
   FY07                                                                           0.00
   FY08                                                                           0.00
                                Total:               71                          238.71
Supervision/ICR
   FY03                                                                            0.00
   FY04                                                                            0.00
   FY05                                              30                           56.14
   FY06                                              40                           31.56
   FY07                                              22                           25.88
                                          62


    FY08                                    36                         87.32
    FY09                                    29                         89.40
    FY10                                    27                        233.14
    FY11                                    39                        160.35
    FY12                                    52                        212.57
    FY13                                    33                        151.91
                          Total:            308                      1048.27

Task Team Members
                                                                       Responsibility/
            Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                           FEUSE -
Ian Alexander             Consultant
                                                           HIS
Raihan Elahi              Senior Energy Specialist         AFTG1
Shawkat M. Q. Hasan       Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPE
Shamsul M. Hoque          Temporary                        SASFP
                                                                     TTL for
Md. Iqbal                 Senior Energy Specialist         SASDE
                                                                     implementation
Zafrul Islam              Lead Procurement Specialist      SARPS
Shakila Parveen Khan      Senior Program Assistant         SACBD
Chrisantha Ratnayake      Consultant                       AFTG1
Joseph Daniel Wright      Economist                        SASDE
Salman Zaheer             Program Director                 SACRI TTL for preparation
Supervision/ICR
                          Senior Financial Management
Burhanuddin Ahmed                                          SARFM
                          Specialist
Mohammad Anis             Energy Specialist                SASDE
Arun Banerjee             Consultant                       SASDI
Sudeshna Ghosh Banerjee   Senior Economist                 SEGEN
Raihan Elahi              Senior Energy Specialist         AFTG1
Tanvir Hossain            Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS
Zafrul Islam              Lead Procurement Specialist      SARPS
Md. Abul Fayez Khan       Program Assistant                SASDO
Ashish Khanna             Lead Energy Specialist           SASDE
Sabah Moyeen              Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Zibun Nessa Pinu          Program Assistant                SARPS
Fabio Pittaluga           Senior Social Development Spec   LCSSO
Zubair K. M. Sadeque      Senior Energy Specialist         SASDE
Ashok Sarkar              Senior Energy Specialist         SEGEN
Alan F. Townsend          Senior Energy Specialist         EASWE
Salman Zaheer             Program Director                 SACRI
Mohammad Sayeed           Consultant                       SASDE
Kristy Mayer              Energy Economist                 SASDE
Tomoyuki Yamashita        Senior Energy Specialist         SASDE TTL for ICR
                                                                         63


     Annex B. List of World Bank Energy Sector Activities
     in Bangladesh
                                                                                        Project Details                                                                                IEG Ratings




                                                                                                                                                    % for El Sector




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M&E Quality
                                                                                                                                      Commitment
                                                           Approval FY




                                                                                                                   Project Cost




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Implementn
                                                                          Closing FY
    No       ID                   Project Name




                                                                                                  Instrument




                                                                                                                                                                                        Bank Perf



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Govt Perf
                                                                                                                                                                      Outcome
                                                                                        Sector




                                                                                                                                                                                Risk
1        P009506 POWER DIST. (16 TOWN                     1989 1998 EMT SIL                                    126                87               68%                                  S           U            U
2        P009542 Third Rural Electrification              1990 2000 EMT SIL                                    160                105              54%                HS                HS          HS           HS
3        P009551 EGY SEC ADJ CREDIT SUPPLEMENT            1990                         EMT SAD -                                  2                51%
4        P044789 BD Private Sector Infrastructure Dev     1998 2007 EMT SIL                                    866                235              8%                 MU        SI     MU MS MU                              N
5        P071794 BD: Rural Elect. Renewable Energy Dev.   2002 2013 EMT SIL                                    290                191              66%
6        P078707 BD: Power Sector Development TA          2004 2013 EMT TAL 21                                                    16               48%
7        P095965 BD: Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project    2009 2016 EMT SIL                                    470                350              58%
8        P107797 Power Sector DPL                         2008 2009 EMT DPL 120                                                   120              100% MS                      NL     MS MU MU                              M
9        P112963 BD: Renewable Energy-AF                  2010 2013 EMT SIL                                    370                130              31%
10       P126724 BD: RERED-AF II                          2012 2013 EMT FIL                                    255                172              65%
11       P131263 RERED II                                 2013 2019 EMT SIL                                    386                155              40%
12       P065131 BD: Haripur Power Project                2000                         EMT NA                  183                61               33%
13       P074801 BD DSC IV/DPL                            2007 2008 PS                           DPL 200                          200              35%                HS        M       S           S            S           SU
14       P081845 Development Support Credit               2003 2004 PS                           SAL 300                          300              25%                S         M       S           S            S
15       P083887 Development Support Credit II            2005 2005 EP                           SAL 200                          200              15%                MS        M       S           S            S
16       P089382 BD: Invst Promotion Financing Facility   2006 2016 FPD FIL                                    105                50               7%
17       P090832 Bangladesh Development Support Cr. III   2006 2006 EP                           DPL 200                          200              15%                S         M       S           MS           MS          SU
18       P108843 Bangladesh DSC IV-Supplemental           2008 2008 PO                           DPL 75                           75               26%
                 inancing
19       P110110 BD DSC IV-Supplemental Financing II      2008 2008 EP                           DPL 100                          100              25%
20       P117542 BD: Invstmnt Prom & Financing Facility   2010 2016 FPD FIL                                    272                257              9%
Non-lending Technical Assistance
21       P119547 GPOBA W3: Bangladesh Renewable Mini- 2010 2014 EMT FIL                                        1                  1                100%
                 rid
22       P119549 BD: GPOBA W3: Bangladesh Solar Home 2010 2014 EMT FIL                                         7                  7                100%
                 yst
23       P121478 Bangladesh Gas Sector Capacity Building   2011 EMT
24       P086409 BD - Pricing Reforms in Oil and Gas                     2009 EMT
25       P083745 BD: Power Sector Non-lending TA                                       EMT
26       P108789 Power Sector Governance                                 2010 EMT
27       P068200 Managing Transaction Advice                                           EMT
28       P118605 BD: Efficient Lighting Initiative        2010 2015 ENV                                        15                 15               100%
                                             64


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance

Arastoo Khan, Additional Secretary
Md. Anwar Hossain, Deputy Secretary

Power Division, Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources

Monowar Islam, Secretary,
Tapos Kumar Roy, Additional Secretary
Md. Anwar Hossain, Joint Secretary
Mohammad Hossain, Director General, Power Cell
Md. Monwar Hasan Khan, Senior Assistant Chief

Bangladesh Power Development Board

Md.Abduhu Ruhullah, Chairman
Md. Shafique Uddin, Director

Rural Electrification Board

Brig Gen Moin Uddin, Chairman
Kaisar Ahmed, Director, Program Planning
Rafiqul Alam, Director, PBS Management Directorate (North)
Md.Imadul Islam, Director, Personnel Directorate
Md. Nurul Islam, Director, PBS Management

Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission

A.R. Khan, Chairman
Md. Delwar Hossain, Member (Power)
Salim Mahmud, Member (Commissioner)
Mohammad Abu Faruque, Director (Finance & Accounts); Deputy Secretary

Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh

Md. Mostafa Kamal, Managing Director
Santi Ram Roy, Executive Director (Engineering)
Md. Siddiqur Rahman, Project Director

Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL)

Mahmood Malik, Executive Director and CEO
Md. Enamul Karim Pavel, Head of Renewable Energy
Faiza Subaiha Bari, Officer, Corporate Affairs


Consumer Association of Bangladesh

Shamsul Alam, Energy Advisor
                                           65


Prokaushali Sangsad Limited (Mini-grid operator)

Asma Huque, Managing Director


Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA), Bangladesh Office

Yushi Nagano, Representative
Ahmad Mukammeluddin, Senior Program Manager

World Bank Dhaka Office

Johannes Zutt, Country Director
Zahid Hussain, Lead Economist
Md. Iqbal, Senior Energy Specialist
Zubair Sadeque, Senior Energy Specialist
Mainul Huq, Consultant

World Bank Head Office

Raihan Elahi, Senior Energy Specialist
                                                                        66


           Annex D
                                     Table 1           Bangladesh Macroeconomic Indicators
                    Description                     FY07         FY08          FY09           FY10      FY11     FY12      FY13 (P)
Growth Rates (%)
GDP Growth                                             6.4           6.2           5.7           6.1      6.7      6.2       6.0
GDP Growth Per Capita                                  5.3           5.2           4.7           5.0      5.6      5.0       4.8
Per Capita GDP (current US$)                           467           538           598           664      732      750       830
Per Capita GNI (current US$)                           502           585           652           726      799      823       913
Per Capita GNI Atlas Method (US$)                      516           574           627           703      782      843       901
Inflation (%)
Rate of Inflation (CPI, %) (year on year)**            9.4          12.3           7.6           6.8      10.9     8.7        6.8
Inflation (GDP deflator)                               6.8          8.8            6.6           6.4      7.4      8.5        6.6
Saving & Investment (% of GDP)
Gross Domestic Saving                                  20.4         20.3           20.1          20.1     19.3     19.3      19.3
Gross National Saving                                  25.8         25.7           26.7          27.7     25.9     27.5      29.0
Private Investment                                     19.0         19.3           19.7          19.4     19.5     20.0      19.0
Public Investment                                      5.4          5.0            4.7           5.0      5.6      6.5       7.9
Central Govt. Budget (% of GDP)
Total Revenue                                          10.4         11.4           10.4          10.9     12.1     12.5      13.1
Total Expenditure                                      13.5         15.0           14.3          14.6     16.1     16.6      18.0
Overall Budget Deficit                                 3.1          3.6            3.9           3.7      4.0      4.1       4.9
Total Public Debt                                      46.8         46.8           45.4          42.9     44.2     42.8      41.2
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Trade                                                  40.3         42.3           40.1          37.6     47.9    49.6       46.6
Exports                                                17.6         17.7           17.4          16.2     20.5    20.9       20.8
Imports                                                22.7         24.7           22.7          21.4     27.4    28.7       25.8
Services & Income (net)                                -3.2         -3.2           -3.5          -2.7     -3.8     -3.9       -4.2
Current Transfers                                      9.6          11.1           11.4          11.6     11.1    11.56      11.55
Current Account Balance ( including transfers)         1.4           0.9            2.7           3.7      0.8     -0.4        1.9
External Indicators
External Debt (US$ b.)                                 19.6         21.0           23.0          22.4     25.4     25.8      26.0
Ext. Debt as % of GDP                                  28.7         26.4           25.7          22.3     22.7     22.2      20.0
BB Gross Reserves (US$ b.) (end of period)             5.1          6.2            7.5          10.75     10.9     10.3      15.3
BB Gross Reserves (in months of imports)               3.4          3.4            3.7           5.4       3.9      3.3       4.6
Money and Credit
M2 Growth (%, year-on-year)                            17.1         17.6           19.2          22.4     21.3     17.4      16.7
Net Domestic Asset Growth (%, year-on-year)            12.6         18.1           17.8          19.1     25.0     18.5      11.8
Ratio of Private Sector Credit to GDP (%)              32.2         34.8           38.6          39.1     42.8     44.4      43.6
Exchange Rate
Nominal Period Average (TK/US$)                        69.1         68.6          68.8          69.2     71.2     79.1       79.9
Nominal End of Period (TK/US$)                         68.8         68.5          69.0          69.5     74.2     81.8       77.8
Real Effective Exchange Rate Index (IMF)               96.5         95.8          105.5         108.3    108.9    105.2      111.6
Memorandum Items
GDP at Current. Prices (Taka bill.)                   4,725         5,458         6,148         6,943    7,967    9,181     10,380
GNI at Current. Prices (Taka bill)                    5,077         5,942         6,707         7,589    8,692    10,074    11,425
Population (mill.)*                                   146.5         148.0         149.5         151.1    152.9    154.7     156.6
Population growth Rate                                 1.1           1.0           1.0           1.1      1.1      1.2       1.2
* Population data is from DECPG.
Source: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, Bangladesh Bank, Ministry of Finance, The World Bank and IMF
                                                           67


                        Table 2     Summary of BPDB Finances 2007-13
                  Compiled from Consolidated Financial Statements (Taka million)
                                               2007-08     2008-09         2009-10      2010-11      2011-12      2012-13
Balance Sheet
Fixed assets less depreciation                 188,453       186,606         187,203      232,145      257,790      263,396
Investment                                       17,546       19,927          33,570       13,965       15,880       17,533
Current Assets                                   83,986       92,141          91,458      109,059      124,183      154,165
  of which: accounts receivable                  53,088       58,279          60,124       55,299       77,870       90,690
Total Property and Assets                      289,985       298,673         312,231      355,169      398,033      435,095
Paid up capital                                  90,808       92,965          96,469      118,131      135,906      142,836
Net surplus / (deficit)                        (94,382)    (100,781)       (111,241)    (157,118)    (222,008)    (272,141)
Other reserves                                 123,065       123,238         123,451      125,246      130,623      138,014
Total Shareholders’ Equity                      119,491     115,422         108,679       86,259       44,521        8,709
Long term loans                                  65,505      73,085          80,324      133,805      206,317      251,640
Medium term liabilities                           7,151       6,079          13,759       14,606       15,392       16,986
Current liabilities                              93,471     100,521         109,445      120,400      131,793      157,758
Clearing accounts                                 4,367       3,567          24,075       99,653       10,441        1,062
Total Capital & Liabilities                     289,985     298,673         312,231      355,169      398,033      435,095
Income Statement
Operating Revenue                                55,943          63,633       71,158       81,606     120,007      168,827
Operating Expenses                               62,510          70,151       75,122     121,294      176,213      206,769
Operating Income                                (6,567)         (6,519)      (3,964)     (39,686)     (56,206)     (37,942)
Non-operating expenses                            3,254           1,767        2,394        6,520       10,727       12,496
Net income / (loss)                             (9,821)         (8,286)      (6,358)     (46,206)     (66,933)     (50,438)
Ave revenue (Tk/kWh)                                2.36            2.56         2.68         2.85         3.70         4.90
Ave cost (Tk/kWh)                                   2.76            3.07         2.82         4.24         5.43         6.01
Ave operating income (Tk/kWh)                     (0.40)          (0.51)       (0.14)       (1.39)       (1.73)       (1.11)
Cash Flow Statement
Net cash flow from operating activities         (3,284)         (6,523)      (6,204)     (46,549)     (59,604)          Na
Net cash flow from investing activities         (8,687)         (7,913)     (13,637)     (31,753)     (36,331)          Na
Net cash flow from financing activities          14,221          17,834       16,904       77,558       95,831          Na
Cash opening balance                             16,567          18,817       22,215       19,277       18,533      18,429
Cash closing balance                             18,817          22,215       19,277       18,533       18,429      30,567
Change in cash position                           2,250           3,398      (2,938)        (744)        (104)      12,138
Select Performance Indicators
Return on net fixed assets (%)                   (3.51)          (3.49)       (2.12)       (18.8)       (22.9)       (13.8)
Accounts receivable (months)                       11.4            11.0         10.1          8.1          7.8          6.5
Debt as % of total capital                        25%             26%           30%          42%          55%          61%
Memorandum Items
Nominal Period Average (TK/US$)                    68.6           68.8         69.2         71.2         79.1         79.9
Total Energy supplied (GWh)                      22,622         24,757       26,627       28,627       32,443       34,400
Purchased energy - liquid fuel rentals (GWh)         44          1,214        2,261        3,928        4,911        6,868
Purchase cost – liquid fuel rentals (Tk M)                       6,979        9,638       50,764       83,696      137,360
Ave cost of liquid fuel rentals (Tk/kWh)                          5.75         4.27        12.92        17.04        20.00
Budgetary support from Government (Tk M)                        10,061        9,931       40,000       63,561       44,060
