                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                            Report No: 64347-BD




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                         ON A

                          PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 107.6 MILLION
                          (US$ 172 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                      PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                       FOR THE

RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                   AUGUST 28, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2011)
                             Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (BDT)
                                  Tk 74.70 = US$1
                                 US$1.599 = SDR 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 – June 30




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank                IDA      International Development Association
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy           IDB      Islamic Development Bank
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism           IDCOL    Infrastructure Development Company
                                                       Limited
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lamp              ISO      International Standards Organization
EIRR    Economic Rate of Return               KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
EMF     Environment Management                MW       Megawatt
        Framework
ERD     Economic Relations Division           NGO      Non-Government Organization
ESMF    Environment and Social Management     NPV      Net Present Value
        Framework
FI      Financial Intermediary                OHSAS    Occupational Health and Safety
                                                       Management Systems
FIL     Financial Intermediary Loan           OP       Operations Policy
FIRR    Financial Rate of Return              PBS      Palli Biddyut Samities (rural
                                                       cooperatives)
FM      Financial Management                  PO       Participating Organizations
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report           REB      Rural Electrification Board
GEF     Global Environment Facility           RERED    Rural Electrification and Renewable
                                                       Energy Development
GIZ     Gesellschaft für Internationale       SHS      Solar Home System
        Zusammenarbeit
GOB     Government of Bangladesh              TA       Technical Assistance
GPOBA   Global Partnership for Output-Based   WP       Watt Peak
        Aid




                           Vice President:      Isabel M. Guerrero
                         Country Director:      Ellen A. Goldstein
                          Sector Manager:       Jyoti Shukla
                        Task Team Leader:       Zubair K M Sadeque
                                                          BANGLADESH

RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

Additional Financing Data Sheet ........................................................................................................ 1
I. Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 3
II. Background and Rationale for the Additional Financing of $172 million ..................................... 3
      Sector Background ....................................................................................................................... 3
      Project Implementation Status ..................................................................................................... 4
      Disbursement Status..................................................................................................................... 6
      Rationale for Additional Financing ............................................................................................. 7
III. Proposed Changes ......................................................................................................................... 8
IV. Appraisal Summary..................................................................................................................... 10
      Economic and Financial ............................................................................................................. 10
      Operational Policy 8.30 Compliance ......................................................................................... 10
      Technical .................................................................................................................................... 11
      Institutional ................................................................................................................................ 11
      Financial Management ............................................................................................................... 12
      Procurement ............................................................................................................................... 12
      Environment and Social Safeguards .......................................................................................... 12
      Governance and Anti-Corruption .............................................................................................. 13

Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring .................................................................................. 14
Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) .......................................................... 19
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................... 23
Annex 4: Operations Policy 8.30 Compliance Review ..................................................................... 29
Annex 5: Financial Management Assessment................................................................................... 33
Annex 6: Procurement Assessment ................................................................................................... 38
                                 BANGLADESH

RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
                        PROJECT

                          Additional Financing Data Sheet
                       Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Ellen A. Goldstein         Sectors: Renewable energy (100%)
Sector Manager/Director: Jyoti Shukla        Themes: Rural services and infrastructure
Team Leader: Zubair K M Sadeque              (100%)
Project ID: P126724                          Environmental category: “B” (Partial
Expected Effectiveness Date: September       Assessment)
15, 2011                                     Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2012
Lending Instrument: SIL                      Joint IFC:
Additional Financing Type: Scale-up          Joint Level:
                            Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P071794                          Environmental category: “B” (Partial
                                             Assessment)
Project Name: Rural Electrification and      Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2012
Renewable Energy Development Project
Lending Instrument: SIL                      Joint IFC:
                                             Joint Level:
                                  AF Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [ X] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
Proposed terms: Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
                                  AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                     Source                               Total Amount (US $m)
  Total Project Cost:                                             255.1
     Cofinancing:
     Borrower:
     Others:                                                       83.1

    Total Bank Financing:
       IBRD
       IDA                                                        172
          New                                                     172
          Recommitted
                                  Client Information
Recipient: Government of Bangladesh
Responsible Agency: Infrastructure Development Company Limited
Contact Person: Mr. Islam Sharif
Telephone No.: (8802) 912 0171-8
Fax No.: (8802) 811 6663
Email: islamsharif@idcol.org


                                                                                         1
                        AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
 FY                            2012          2013
 Annual                      104.25         67.75
 Cumulative                  104.25        172.00
                        Project Development Objective and Description
Original project development objective: To raise levels of social and economic growth by
increasing access to electricity in rural areas of Bangladesh

Revised project development objective: Increase access to electricity in rural areas of
Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption.

Project description: Scaling up installations of solar home systems (SHS) and other
renewable energy mini-grids to provide access to electricity in remote rural areas of
Bangladesh
                              Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                  [X]Yes [ ] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                          [ ]Yes [X] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                   [ ]Yes [X] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              [ ]Yes [X] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                        [ ]Yes [X] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                  [ ]Yes [X] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                            [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                       [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                               [ ]Yes [ X] No
Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?           [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been endorsed or approved by Bank                     [ ]Yes [ ] No
management?
                              Conditions and Legal Covenants:
   Financing Agreement                  Description of              Date Due
          Reference                  Condition/Covenant
   Sections 5.01 and 5.02          Additional condition for   Prior to effectiveness
                                   effectiveness: subsidiary
                                     agreements have been
                                     executed between the
                                   Recipient and the Project
                                      Implementing Entity




                                                                                           2
I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
credit in an amount of US$172 million equivalent to the Bangladesh Rural Electrification and
Renewable Energy Development Project (RERED) (P071794).

2.      The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with further
scaling-up the successful program of installations of Solar Home Systems (SHS) in remote rural
areas by the eligible Participating Organizations (POs) under a micro-credit scheme implemented
by the Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL). The proposed second additional
financing will contribute towards further increasing access to electricity in remote rural areas
where grid electricity is not economically viable. The proposed financing of US$172 million
will support installation of about 630,000 solar home systems (SHS) and other renewable energy
projects between now and the remaining period up to project closing of December 31, 2012.

3.     The project has established the SHS as a viable model for increasing access to electricity
in remote rural areas where the electric power grid is not economically feasible or is not expected
reach in the near term. Together with support from IDA and other development partners, a
million SHS have been installed in these rural areas since the beginning of the program in 2002.
Monthly installation rates now exceed 40,000 SHS. IDCOL has a target of achieving 2.5 million
SHS by the year 2014. The currently available funding from IDA and other development
partners will be fully utilized supporting installations up to June 2011.

4.     The project objective is proposed to be changed to ‘Increase access to electricity in rural
areas of Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption’ to better reflect the
focus of the project. IDCOL, which has successfully managed the renewable energy component
of RERED, will continue to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the additional
financing under the same implementation arrangement.


II. Background and Rationale for the Additional Financing of $172 million

Sector Background

5.      The Vision and Policy Statement (2002) of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) on
Power Sector Reforms has, among others, the objectives of: i) bringing the entire country under
electricity service by the year 2020 with improved reliability and quality; ii) increasing the
sector’s efficiency and making the power sector financially viable; iii) making the sector
commercial and increasing private sector participation. The Renewable Energy Policy (2008) of
GOB laid out the target of meeting 5% of total power demand from renewable energy sources by
2015 and 10% by 2020. These are ambitious targets given the fact that access to electricity is
below 50% today and the current share of renewable energy is less than 1% of total power
generation in the country. Only about one-third of rural households have access to electricity
with about 16 million households yet to be electrified.

6.     Peak electricity demand in the country is around 6,000 MW and available generation
capacity of 4,600 to 5,000 MW is insufficient to satisfy current demand. GOB has embarked

                                                                                                 3
upon an ambitious generation expansion plan that envisages adding more than 11,500 MW to the
national grid by the year 2015. As part of that plan, a number of large gas-fired power plants
have recently been awarded to the private sector, which will take a few more years to be
operational. As an interim measure, GOB has contracted about 1,750 MW of rental plants, and
over 1,200 MW have recently started supplying power helping to relieve the power shortages to
some extent. With support from the project, GOB has also embarked upon a demand side
management measure of deploying 28 million energy-efficient compact fluorescent lamps
(CFLs) in exchange of incandescent lamps to reduce peak demand.

7.     The Rural Electrification Board (REB) is the apex body responsible for planning,
financing, and installation of the rural electrification network in the country. The maintenance
and operation of the system is the responsibility of 70 rural electricity cooperatives, called the
Palli Bidyut Samities (PBS). The REB/PBS system today accounts for more than half of the
power demand connecting more than 7 million rural households to the national grid. Once a
center of excellence, the REB/PBS system currently is facing institutional issues, which if not
properly addressed, can magnify and put the entire program at risk. The generation shortages
and inadequate adjustments in retail tariff have contributed to weak financial performance of the
PBSs.

8.      The pace of new grid connections has slowed in recent years due to power generation
shortages. Despite GOB’s efforts to increase generation capacity and demand side management
measures to reduce peak demand, it will take years to fully close the gap between power demand
and supply. Consequently, it will not be possible to achieve the government vision of universal
access by 2020 relying only on the grid. Furthermore, the dispersed nature of rural settlements
and the numerous rivers that crisscross the country make grid-based electrification in many areas
difficult and expensive.

9.      Off-grid renewable energy is the near-to-medium term and least cost option left for
millions of people in the remote areas of the country. With support from IDA and the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), the GOB launched a market-based off-grid electrification program
in 2002 with IDCOL as the implementing agency. Today, with support of 30 POs, IDCOL
efforts have led to a very successful off-grid electrification program where a million households
are receiving basic electricity services from low cost and reliable SHS. Further expansion of
services using renewable energy-powered mini-grids has also been initiated.

Project Implementation Status

10.     The RERED project became effective in December 2002 with the project development
objective of raising social development and economic growth by increasing access to electricity
in rural areas. The project started with the major component of providing grid connections to the
rural people through the REB/PBS system. The grid component had largely completed
successfully by 2009 providing 650,000 new connections. The project also supported the area
rationalization program of the government that included taking over lines by REB from the
Bangladesh Power Development Board and reducing systems losses after successful renovation
of the taken over lines. While the physical targets under the grid component were largely
achieved, the institutional weaknesses of the REB/PBS systems have created cause for concern
for the future sustainability of the REB/PBS program. Recognizing the importance of addressing

                                                                                                4
the issues, GOB has formed a ministerial task force for developing an action plan for
strengthening issues related to governance, human resources, and finance of the REB/PBS
program. The task force has recently submitted its report with a broad set of recommendations
and as a follow-up, an internal REB committee is being formed to develop a specific and time-
bound action plan. The Bank is continuing its dialogue with the GOB in support of a home-
grown solution to the problems identified. Future IDA support to expansion/ augmentation of
the grid electrification is contingent upon a credible and time-bound action plan agreed to by all
stakeholders.

11.     The off-grid component of the project started with a target of supporting 50,000 SHS
during the project period and achieved 236,000 systems by 2009 under the original credit.
Considering the success of this program, an additional financing was approved in 2009 with a
target to support another 300,000 systems. By June 2011, some 336,000 systems have been
supported almost fully exhausting the additional financing allocation under this component 1.
The program started with 5 Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) as the Participating
Organizations (POs). This number has now risen to 30 POs installing SHS under a competitive
business model. SHS costs in Bangladesh are now among the lowest in the world at $8-9/Wp
(compared to $14/Wp in Sri Lanka). The SHS program is in the process of getting registered
under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) for claiming carbon credits. The project has
also piloted a few mini-grids including a 100KW solar photovoltaic (PV) system in the southern
remote island of Sandwip.

12.     Several factors have contributed to the striking success of this program: (i) a sense of
ownership by consumers resulting in proper system care; (ii) customer training imparted by the
POs enabling the customers to carry out regular repair and maintenance work themselves; (iii)
social acceptability of the POs at the community level and the existence of a micro-credit culture
in rural Bangladesh resulting in customer readiness to try the systems; (iv) institutional set-up of
the POs enabling them to reach remote customers in a cost-effective and efficient manner; (iv)
setting technical standards and enforcing the standards through strong supervision and
monitoring by IDCOL; (v) risk sharing between IDCOL and the POs, proper customer selection,
and attention by both IDCOL and the POs to collection efficiencies (the POs achieved an
average collection efficiency of 94% and are servicing their debts owed to IDCOL on a timely
basis); vi) ability to achieve low costs (SHS costs including a five year warranty for batteries and
three years of maintenance is $8-9/Wp (net of subsidy); and vii) large customer base in relatively
densely populated areas.

13.      The 2009 additional financing of the project also supported GOB’s Efficient Lighting
Initiatives aimed at reducing peak demand through large-scale distribution of energy efficient
CFLs in exchange for incandescent lamps. Implemented by REB, the first phase deployment of
about 10 million CFLs has been completed in the distribution areas of selected PBSs and four
other utilities. About 5 million were distributed on a single day on June 19, 2010 and another 5
million on Oct 23, 2010 through a nation-wide program where customers went to the distribution
centers with their electricity bills and the incandescent lamps, and collected the CFLs in


1
 Out of the 1 million SHS installed as of now, the Bank supported a total of 572,000 systems. The rest are financed
by other development partners (ADB, GIZ, kfW, and IDB).

                                                                                                                  5
exchange for the incandescent lamps. The program has been registered under the CDM for
claiming carbon credits with IDCOL as the Coordination and Managing Entity (CME).

14.     Post-installation surveys recently concluded have indicated high lamp failure rates and
REB is taking remedial measures including re-testing of the lamps at testing labs to ascertain the
quality of the lamps supplied as a pre-cursor to claim replacement from the suppliers. There
have also been issues related to not following the strict record keeping requirements of the CDM,
which have resulted into uncertainty in claiming carbon credits from the first phase distribution.
Under the second phase of the program, procurement of another 17 million CFLs is currently on-
going and these are planned for door-to-door distribution in the remaining areas of the country
by the end of 2011. The door-to-door distribution will help avoid the documentation challenges
of a one-day distribution. To ensure quality of bulbs under the second phase procurement, REB
is taking a number of measures including appointing a third-party technical team in addition to
the pre-shipment inspection agent.

15.     The project is consistently rated Satisfactory in achievement of project objectives and in
overall implementation progress. The project is in compliance with the legal covenants including
the financial reporting requirements. The FM rating was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory
in 2010 due to a number of audit observations by the government auditor on REB project
accounts. An action plan for addressing the audit observations has been prepared and REB has
made good progress. The FM rating will be re-assessed when the remaining material audit
observations are settled satisfactorily by REB. The procurement rating was downgraded to
Moderately Satisfactory in 2010 due to delays by REB in concluding the first phase CFL
procurement. The procurement rating will be re-assessed on completion of the second phase
procurement that is currently ongoing.

Disbursement Status

16.     The 2009 additional financing had an allocation of US$98 million for SHS and mini-grid
and US$2 million for TA components implemented by IDCOL; US$15 million to the CFL first
phase implemented by REB; and US$15 million for retroactive financing for the REB grid
components under the original credit (Table 1). An amount of about US$15 million was
reallocated from the SHS component (category 5) to the CFL component (category 4) to finance
the second phase of the CFL program. The un-disbursed amount of US$26 million for the CFL
component (category 4) is expected to be fully utilized within the remaining period before the
credit closing date. The revised allocation of about US$83 million for the SHS component is
almost fully utilized. With the current monthly installations of over 40,000 systems, the monthly
disbursement requirements for the SHS are currently about US$10 million, which is expected to
be even higher in the coming months. Hence the proposed $172 million would be fully utilized
by December 2012 or sooner.




                                                                                                6
          Table 1: Disbursement Status of Credit 4643-BD as of July 7, 2011
                                                                                              (Amounts in US$)
      Category      Category Description                 Original          Revised      Disbursed     Undisbursed
                                                       Allocation       Allocation
       1 (REB)      Works (REB)                         1,520,286          605,020         605,015                5
     2 (a) (REB)    Goods- Part 1                      12,007,160        8,890,864       8,753,626          137,238
    2 (b) (IDCOL)   Goods- Part 3                         201,671                0               0                0
     3 (a) (REB)    Services- Part 1                    1,520,286          839,740         839,590              150
    3 (b) (IDCOL)   Services- Part 3                    2,001,193                0               0                0
       4 (REB)      Goods, Services, Operating         15,001,193       39,936,244      13,656,296       26,279,948
                    Costs for CFL under Part 2
     5 (IDCOL)      Subloans- Part 3                  97,748,210       83,080,748      82,981,140            99,608
                                          Totals     130,000,000      133,352,616     106,835,667        26,516,949



Rationale for Additional Financing

17.      The primary rationale for the additional financing is to continue support for the Project
that is an important contributor to the Government’s vision of providing universal access to
electricity by 2020. Given the power shortages and the resulting slow-down in grid-based
electrification and the institutional problems faced by REB/PBSs, further support to off-grid
renewable energy-based electrification is warranted. For the remote and dispersed communities,
SHS is least cost compared to other options. The proposed additional financing will support
installation of about 630,000 SHS that will contribute directly to achieving the targets of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of providing 900,000 new connections during FY11-14 CAS
period.

18.     The GOB’s off-grid electrification program has a target of achieving 2.5 million SHS and
other renewable energy installations by 2014. This will require about $495 million in credit and
US$59 million in grant support. The Bank received an ERD request for this funding on January
26, 2011. The first round additional financing extended the project closing date to December 31,
2012. As the next step, it is proposed to provide a second round of additional financing to the
RERED project to carry the project through to December 2012. IDA funding required is
US$172 million, of which US$157 million will be for loan financing, US$9 million for subsidy,
and US$6 million for SHS testing facility, technical assistance, and operating expenses for
carbon finance related activities.

19.     The proposed additional financing will support a project that has established SHS as a
viable technology and the IDCOL-led implementation model as a successful approach for rapidly
increasing access to electricity in rural areas using renewable energy sources 2. It has achieved a
pace of electrification of 40,000 households per month. The project to-date has resulted in
quality products that customers demand, an efficient delivery and financing infrastructure, and an

2
  Under the SHS program, consumers enter into a micro-finance agreement with the POs following which the POs
install the systems as per technical standards set by IDCOL. After the systems are installed, the POs apply for re-
financing from IDCOL. After technical and other verifications, IDCOL releases the credit and a fixed grant
(currently $28 per system) to the POs. This refinancing provides the POs with funds to install more systems and
reach even more remote areas.

                                                                                                                      7
effective supervisory structure. Demand for SHS is clearly evident from the accelerating pace of
installations.

20.    A number of alternatives were considered before proposing this second round of
additional financing:

       a. Close the project early and let domestic sources of financing mobilized by the POs
          finance future SHS sales. This option was discarded as it was too premature to expect
          POs to be able to suddenly mobilize the quantum of funds required. Presently, the
          refinancing facility of IDCOL provides up to 80% of the micro-credit extended to
          customers leaving the POs’ share at 20% of the micro-credit amount. During the
          course of the proposed additional financing, this share of the POs is expected to rise
          to 30%. Also, stopping further IDA support at this stage will increase the risk of
          market failure as it could result in the dismantling of the existing country-wide SHS
          service infrastructure and leave the existing 1 million customers with limited access
          to repair and maintenance services.

       b. Close the project and prepare a new project. It was earlier planned that the additional
          funding needs for the renewable energy program of IDCOL would be met from a new
          project that will also include support for augmentation of the existing rural grid
          network of REB, and the transmission system expansion by the Power Grid Company
          of Bangladesh (PGCB). However, before new support for REB could be considered,
          a credible and time-bound action plan agreed by all stakeholders is needed to help
          address the issues and challenges that REB/PBSs are facing. Progress on the
          development of the action plan however has been slow, which has delayed
          preparation of the new project. The immediate funding needs of the successful SHS
          program necessitates this second round additional financing in advance of a new
          project. Delays in providing support to the SHS program would result in dissipating
          the considerable infrastructure and human capacities that have been successfully built
          over the course of several years. Rebuilding such capacities at a later stage would be
          costly, time consuming, and inefficient. As noted above, loss of such infrastructure as
          the POs dismantle their service centers would deny access of existing customers to
          repair and maintenance services.


III. Proposed Changes

21.     The current project development objective is ‘To raise social development and economic
growth by increasing access to electricity in rural areas’. The second additional financing is
proposed for increasing access to electricity through the renewable energy component of the
project. To better reflect the focus through the off-grid option and the demand side management
component that was introduced in the project during the first additional financing in 2009, the
project development objective is proposed to be changed to ‘Increase access to electricity in rural
areas of Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption’.

22.    IDCOL has been successfully managing the off-grid renewable energy component of the
project and will continue to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the additional


                                                                                                 8
financing under the same implementation arrangements. Considering the size and current growth
of the program, the proposed additional financing will support strengthening the technical
inspections and monitoring, training, and establishment of an SHS testing facilities at an
appropriate institution in Bangladesh to provide for quality monitoring of PV components. The
proposed additional financing will also support strengthening IDCOL’s capacity for managing
CDM activities of the SHS and CFL programs,

23.      Proposed Components of the additional financing are as follows:

      a. Component 1: Scale up the renewable energy component (US$166 million). This
         includes loan financing (US$157 million) and grant support (US$9 million) for
         installation of approximately 630,000 SHS of various sizes, and several mini-gird
         projects. As this is a market driven program, customer demand will drive the types of
         systems purchased. The indicative portfolio of mini-grids comprises 60 solar PV
         irrigation systems, 5 biogas power projects (20KW each) and 1 biomass gasification plant
         (200 KW). The actual number of sub-projects will vary based on demand. Feasibility
         studies and appraisals of several of these projects have been completed.
      b. Component 2: Technical assistance (US$6 million) for quality assurance, training and
         outreach, and environmental management. This will also include operating expenses for
         carbon finance related activities. The principle activities are the following:
             i. Services:
                   (a)    Quality Assurance: Establishing capacities for PV systems testing,
                          support to the Technical Standards Committee for quality improvement,
                          expanded technical SHS inspection program, collection efficiency
                          inspections, and field and laboratory SHS performance testing.
                   (b)    Training & Outreach: Customer education and outreach, PO staff training,
                          technician accreditation program design, technicians accreditation,
                          training and exposure visits, market spoilage avoidance information
                          dissemination, and consumer response survey for newly emerging high
                          efficiency advanced white Lighting Emitting Diode (LED) lamps.
                   (c)    Environment Improvement: Battery recycling and CFL recycling support
             ii. Goods:
                  Procurement of training manuals, customer training leaflets, inspection forms,
                  toolkits, and laptop computers. Procurement and set up of PV Testing Lab
                  Equipment.
             iii. Operating Expenses
                  Related to carbon finance related activities that will include developing a carbon
                  finance cell to design, prepare, manage, and implement carbon finance programs
                  as well as payment of fees and expenses associated with registering CDM
                  programs and claiming carbon credits.

24.    Total estimated cost of the project is US$255 million (Table 2). Supplementing the
additional IDA financing will be consumer down payments of 10-15 percent for SHS (US$23
million) and POs’ own financing for on-lending to SHS customers (US$51 million). Out of the
IDA additional financing of US$172 million, US$157 million for loan financing for SHS and
mini-grids and US$4 million of technical assistance are expected to be on-lent to IDCOL under a

                                                                                                  9
Subsidiary Loan Agreement at the same terms as the current additional financing (3% annual
interest rate with a repayment period of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years). The
remaining US$9 million for grant support and US$2 million of technical assistance (including
SHS testing facilities and carbon finance related activities) are expected to be made available to
IDCOL by GOB as grant under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Additional grant funding
committed from the Bank administered multi-donor trust fund GPOBA and other sources is
given in Table 2.

                  Table 2: Summary of Sources of Financing (US$ Million)

            Sources of Funds            Equity       Loans       Grants        Total
           IDA Additional Financing              -      157.0         15.0        172.0
           KfW                                   -          -          0.6           0.6
           GPOBA                                 -          -          6.7           6.7
           ADB Grants                            -          -          2.0           2.0
           PO Loan Share                         -       50.2            -         50.2
           SHS Customer Down
                                            22.8            -            -         22.8
           payments
           Other RE Projects Equity          0.8            -            -          0.8
           Total                            23.6        207.2         24.3        255.1


IV. Appraisal Summary

Economic and Financial

25.     An economic analysis conducted for the SHS component of the proposed additional
financing finds it to be economically and financially sound with EIRR and FIRR of 44 percent
and 34 percent respectively. This is without considering the increased consumer surplus from
superior electric lighting. The FIRR and NPV for individual households (without taking into
account consumer surplus benefits) is attractive for all systems except the 20 Wp, which has a
negative NPV. When consumer surplus benefits due to improved lighting are considered, all
systems have net positive benefits from year 1. The demand-driven market response to small
SHS of 20 Wp and smaller has been very positive (introduced in 2009, the small systems’ market
share has risen to 21%). This is a clear demonstration that consumers do value the benefits from
the small systems and are willing to pay for them. The business case for the POs is strong with
an IRR of 44 percent on their investments. Annex 3 provides details on the economic and
financial analysis. A full-fledged impact evaluation study on SHS is planned to be undertaken
by the Bank in the coming year that will include a household survey to quantify the benefits of
using SHS.

Operational Policy 8.30 Compliance

26.    IDCOL, being a financial intermediary, is required to comply with World Bank’s
Operational Policy 8.30 for Financial Intermediary Lending (OP 8.30). An OP8.30 compliance
review was undertaken that found IDCOL to be in compliance with the requirements. IDCOL is
in good financial position with adequate capitalization, has good loan recovery rate (collection
performance of the POs has been sustained at 94% on an average), makes adequate loan loss


                                                                                               10
provisions as per Bangladesh Bank’s regulations, keeps its books of accounts in compliance with
rules and regulations, and has a satisfactory profit margin ensuring its sustainability as a financial
intermediary. The cost of funds for the POs under the project is comparable with their other
sources of financing – such as PKSF (Pally Karma Shahayak Foundation), the apex institution
financing micro-finance organizations in Bangladesh - ensuring that there is no significant
market distortion arising from implementation of the additional financing for the project.
IDCOL received an OP8.30 clearance during the appraisal of the original project in 2002 and
during the appraisal of the first additional financing in 2009. The detailed OP 8.30 compliance
review for the proposed second additional financing is provided in Annex 4.

Technical

27.     The project uses well established renewable energy technologies. The SHS component
will continue to use internationally sourced photovoltaic panels and locally sourced batteries,
charge controllers and lights, all of which are compliant with the standards set by the technical
standards committee of IDCOL. Regular inspections are held to ensure the systems are installed
as per the approved technical standards. Field inspections were also conducted by international
consultants funded by KfW. IDCOL has strengthened its inspection team by appointing
additional inspectors and opened six regional offices to better coordinate the inspections and
monitoring. In addition to the inspections, IDCOL also conducts technical audits by independent
third parties to verify that approved products are used, and are installed as per the technical
standards. Given the size and growth of the program, it has now become imperative to build
domestic capacity for testing of key components and systems to verify continued compliance,
and to undertake performance testing of PV systems in the laboratory and in the field. Presently
such testing capabilities do not exist in Bangladesh. In order to establish an SHS testing facility,
part of the proceeds from the proposed additional financing will be used to procure testing
equipment. An appropriate institution capable of operating such a facility will be selected
through a competitive process. Testing services would be offered for a fee to the POs and
manufacturers. IDCOL would use these services to monitor quality and performance.

28.     The additional financing for renewable energy mini-grids will explore all potential
options, with proven technologies tested elsewhere in the world, with a specific focus on biomass
gasification and biogas electrification.

Institutional

29.     IDCOL is the only implementing agency for the proposed second additional financing.
As a government owned company, IDCOL has a well functioning board with strong oversight on
the management. The board comprises of representatives from the GOB and the private sector.
As a company, IDCOL is able to offer market based incentive package to its management and
staff. IDCOL has been managing the renewable energy component very well. The scale-up
envisaged under the proposed second additional financing may put a strain on the existing
capacity of IDCOL; however, IDCOL has the ability to respond quickly if there is a need to
strengthen its staff capacity to meet with the growing needs of the program. IDCOL has strong
monitoring and oversight over the activities of the POs. Additional TA resources have been
provisioned for under the proposed additional financing to strengthen the inspection and
monitoring of the PO activities.

                                                                                                   11
Financial Management

30.     IDCOL’s Financial Management organization and systems have been found adequate to
manage its operation and to undertake the project financial management activities. IDCOL has
acquired significant experience in IDA procedures and requirements during the implementation
of the current project. The financial management arrangements used in the original credit and in
the first additional financing will continue under the proposed second additional financing with
add-on arrangement to enhance controls at the PO level. The overall financial management risk
for the proposed second additional financing is rated as ‘Substantial’ given the high inherent risk
at the country level and the substantial to moderate control risks at the project level. The risk
mitigation measures are detailed in Annex 5.

31.    An Operating Guideline, acceptable to IDA, has been adopted by IDCOL incorporating
measures for enhancing controls particularly at the PO level. Several measures for enhancing
disclosure in IDCOL’s books of accounts were discussed and agreed with IDCOL, which will be
incorporated in FY11 books of accounts. The audited accounts of the SHS program of the POs
were significantly delayed, and IDCOL has agreed to strengthen its follow-up measures to ensure
timely submission of audited accounts in the future. Although IDCOL has developed
comprehensive software for its accounting system, the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) of
the project are still produced from a standalone spreadsheet with scope for error and
manipulation. IDCOL has agreed to incorporate necessary modifications in its computerized
accounting system so that FMRs can be automatically generated from the computerized system.

Procurement

32.    Under the project, IDCOL’s role as a financial intermediary did not require procurement;
the POs procure the system components following commercial practices. Same arrangement will
be in place for the proposed second additional financing. To implement the TA components,
IDCOL will do some procurement of goods and consulting services. Procurement expenditure
would be around US$3 million, out of which consulting services would be for about US$2
million and the rest for goods. IDCOL does not have trained personnel with adequate knowledge
on public procurement processes and the requirements of the public procurement rules of
Bangladesh. Considering this, the procurement risk is rated as “Substantial”. In order to
minimize the risk, several measures including a procurement risk mitigation framework have
been introduced. Details of the agreed risk mitigation measures are in Annex 6.

Environment and Social Safeguards

33.     The safeguard category of the project is B since there are no significant and/or
irreversible adverse environmental and social issues in the sub-projects financed under the
project. The renewable energy component yields net positive environmental impacts. Since the
proposed additional financing will be for further scaling up the renewable energy component, it
is not anticipated that there will be any significant and/or irreversible adverse environmental and
social issues. The discharge of lead sulphate in the local environment during recycling of used
SHS batteries is a concern. An Environment Management Framework (EMF) was adopted by
IDCOL and REB during the first additional financing which required the battery manufacturers
to adopt ISO 14001-2204 (Environment Management Standard) and OHSAS 18001:1999

                                                                                                12
(Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems) certifications by June 2011. Most of the
battery manufacturers by now have introduced several measures to improve the environmental
and safety condition in battery recycling process and are in the process of adopting the ISO
certifications. It is expected that all the battery manufacturers will complete ISO and OHSAS
certification by December 2011.

34.     IDCOL has strengthened its institutional capacity for environmental and social
management by appointing a full-time environment and social safeguards specialist. The
specialist will be strengthening monitoring of battery recycling to promote recycling at approved
recycling centers (and not by “backyard” smelters). The specialist will also seek to ensure that
the environment and social aspects are adequately addressed in the mini-grids that are proposed
to be financed under the second additional financing. The existing Environment Management
Framework (EMF) of the project has been revised as an Environment and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) incorporating social safeguards measures for the mini-grid projects. An
environmental audit will be undertaken every year by an independent third party to check
compliance with the environmental safeguards measures outlined in the ESMF.

Governance and Anti-Corruption

35.     Bangladesh has a challenging environment with regard to governance and anti-corruption
issues. However, IDCOL, the implementing agency for the proposed additional financing, has a
strong corporate governance structure in place with strong board oversight and competent
management. The implementation arrangement has been proven to be robust enough with a
million systems installed with support from IDA and other development partners with no major
governance or corruption issues surfacing. At the inception of the program, IDCOL managed to
conduct 100% physical verification of the SHS before refinancing was released to the POs. With
the rapid growth of the SHS program, 100% verification before releasing fund is no longer
practical. However, IDCOL strives to maintain adequate inspections and monitoring. The
inspection rate before release of refinancing is currently about 10% while the aggregate
inspection rate (of both new and old systems) is about 42%. Under the proposed second
additional financing, additional TA resources have been provisioned for enhanced inspections
and monitoring.




                                                                                              13
                                                     ANNEX 1
                        R ESULTS F RAMEWORK AND M ONITORING
          BANGLADESH: Additional Financing II for the Rural Electrification and
                     Renewable Energy Development Project
                              Results Framework
                Revisions to the Results Framework                                          Comments/
                                                                                       Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                      Proposed
The project development            The project development objective is to         The PDO is changed to better
objective is to raise levels of    increase access to electricity in rural areas   reflect the access focus of the
social development and             of Bangladesh and help promote more             project and to reflect the demand
economic growth by                 efficient energy consumption.                   side management component that
increasing access to electricity                                                   was added in the first additional
in rural areas of Bangladesh.                                                      financing and continues to be
                                                                                   implemented during the second
Three components supporting                                                        additional financing.
the PDO will:
Expand access to electricity in
rural areas of Bangladesh
through the use of renewable
energy resources.
Reduce capacity shortage on
the grid through demand side
management.
Reduce system loss of REB
taken over pockets from
BPDB through renovation.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                      Proposed change*
Expand access to rural             There is a change in the end of project         The proposed additional financing
households through financing       target value                                    will further scale up the solar home
of solar home systems                                                              systems component of the project
Expand renewable energy            There is a change in the end of project         The proposed additional financing
options for off-grid energy        target value                                    will scale up the mini-grid
supply in rural areas                                                              component of the project

Reduce energy shortages            More efficient energy consumption               The indicator is proposed to be
though introduction of             through installation of Compact                 changed to better reflect the focus
compact fluorescent lamps as       Fluorescent Lamps.                              of the component, which is to
replacements for incandescent                                                      replace incandescent lamps with
bulbs                                                                              energy-efficient CFLs. The
                                                                                   reallocation within the first
                                                                                   additional financing credit has
                                                                                   increased funding for
                                                                                   implementing the second phase of
                                                                                   this program, which is ongoing. No
                                                                                   further allocation is envisaged for
                                                                                   this component from the proposed
                                                                                   second additional financing.


                                                                                                                       14
                Revisions to the Results Framework                                             Comments/
                                                                                          Rationale for Change
Reduce system loss of taken         Achieved                                         This component was completed
over areas through renovation                                                        under the first additional financing.
of distribution lines                                                                This indicator is therefore not
                                                                                     included in the proposed second
                                                                                     additional financing.
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                       Proposed change*
Number of solar panels              Additional households receiving access to        The proposed additional financing
installed.                          electricity through renewable energy             will further scale up the SHS
Target: 300,000                     sources                                          component of the project
Number of successful projects       Additional households receiving access to        Demand responsive targets to be
and number of kW installed          electricity through renewable energy             set by IDCOL during project
capacity                            sources                                          implementation
Target: To be determined by
IDCOL
Number of incandescent bulbs        Additional 17.5 million incandescent bulbs       This is supported by increased
replaced by CFLs                    replaced by CFLs                                 funding through a reallocation
Target: 10 million                                                                   within the first additional financing
Total km of lines renovation        Achieved                                         The component has already
Target 12,000 km                                                                     finished under the first additional
                                                                                     financing of the project and
Reduction in System Loss                                                             therefore these indicators have not
Target less than 20%                                                                 been included in the proposed
                                                                                     second additional financing

 * Indicate if the indicator is Dropped, Continued, New, Revised, or if there is a change in the end of project target value




                                                                                                                          15
                                                                REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK

Project Development Objective (PDO):
To increase access to electricity in rural areas of Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption.
                                                     Baseline                      Cumulative Target Values 6
                                                     Original    Progress                                                                             Responsibility
                                                                               2012         2013      2014      2015               Data Source/
 PDO Level Results Indicators 3           UOM 4      Project     To Date                                               Frequency                        for Data           Comments
                                   Core
                                                                                                                                   Methodology
                                                       Start      (2011) 5                                                                             Collection
                                                      (2002)
                                                                                                                                                                       This is the total
                                                                                                                                   Minutes of the
                                                                                                                                                                       target to be
                                                                                                                                      Operations
                                                                                                                                                                       supported by IDA
                                                                                                                                      Committee
1. Expand access to rural                                                                                                                                              and other
                                                                                                                                      Meeting of
                                          Number                                                                                                                       development
households through financing              of SHS
                                                        0       1,000,000    1,510,000    2,050,000                     Monthly         IDCOL            IDCOL
                                                                                                                                                                       partners. IDA
of solar home systems                                                                                                               reporting data
                                                                                                                                                                       support will be for
                                                                                                                                    collected from
                                                                                                                                                                       630,000 SHS under
                                                                                                                                   sales records of
                                                                                                                                                                       the proposed
                                                                                                                                         POs
                                                                                                                                                                       additional financing
                                                                                                                                                                       The projects will be
                                                                                                                                                                       developed based on
                                                                                                                                       Financial                       strength of
                                                                                                                                     Monitoring                        proposals. Fixing a
                                                                                                                                        Report                         number or size for
2. Expand renewable energy                Number
                                                                                                                                   capturing data                      these projects will
options for off-grid energy               of mini-      0           2          TBD          TBD                        Quarterly                         IDCOL
                                                                                                                                   collected from                      influence the
supply in rural areas                      grids
                                                                                                                                    site visits and                    technology options
                                                                                                                                   technical/finan                     available, so this
                                                                                                                                     cial review                       indicator is left open
                                                                                                                                                                       to IDCOL’s
                                                                                                                                                                       discretion
3. More efficient energy                                                                                                               Project                         Although not
                                                                                                                                      Progress                         included under the
consumption through                       Number
                                                        0       10,000,000   27,500,000                                Quarterly       Report             REB          proposed additional
installation of compact                   of bulbs
                                                                                                                                   capturing data                      financing, this will
fluorescent lamps                                                                                                                  collected from                      be ongoing from the

            3
              Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (for additional guidance – please see http://coreindicators).
            4
              UOM = Unit of Measurement.
            5
              For new indicators introduced as part of the additional financing, the progress to date column is used to reflect the baseline value.
            6
              Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually. Target values should normally be cumulative. If targets
            refer to annual values, please indicate this in the indicator name and in the “Comments” column.

                                                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                              the PBSs and                       first additional
                                                                                                                                the other                        financing credit
                                                                                                                                 utilities



Beneficiaries 7
                                         Number
Project beneficiaries,
                                                      0       4,500,000   6,795,000   9,225,000

                                         Number
Of which female (beneficiaries)                       0       2,295,000   3,465,450   4,074,750




                                                                     Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                   Baseline                           Target Values
                                         Unit of   Original   Progress                                                                          Responsibility
                                                                            2012        2013      2014   2015                Data Source/
Intermediate Results Indicators          Measur    Project    To Date                                           Frequency                         for Data           Comments
                                  Core




                                                                                                                             Methodology
                                         ement       Start     (2011)                                                                            Collection
                                                    (2002)

Intermediate Result 1: Additional households receiving access to electricity through renewable energy sources
                                                                                                                                                                 This is the total
                                                                                                                             Minutes of the
                                                                                                                                                                 target to be
                                                                                                                                Operations
                                                                                                                                                                 supported by IDA
                                                                                                                                Committee
1. Number of solar home                                                                                                                                          and other
                                                                                                                                Meeting of
                                                                                                                                                                 development
systems installed.                       Number       0       1,000,000   1,510,000   2,050,000                  Monthly          IDCOL            IDCOL
                                                                                                                                                                 partners. IDA
                                                                                                                              reporting data
                                                                                                                                                                 support will be for
                                                                                                                              collected from
                                                                                                                                                                 630,000 SHS under
                                                                                                                             sales records of
                                                                                                                                                                 the proposed
                                                                                                                                   POs
                                                                                                                                                                 additional financing
                                                                                                                               Financial                         The projects will be
                                                                                                                              Monitoring                         developed based on
2. Number of renewable energy
                                         Number       0          2          TBD         TBD                      Quarterly       Report            IDCOL         strength of
based mini-grid systems                                                                                                      capturing data                      proposals. Fixing a
                                                                                                                             collected from                      number or size for


            7
              All projects are encouraged to identify and measure the number of project beneficiaries. The adoption and reporting on this indicator is required for
            investment projects which have an approval date of July 1, 2009 or later (for additional guidance – please see http://coreindicators).

                                                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                    Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                   Baseline                             Target Values
                                         Unit of   Original   Progress                                                                           Responsibility
                                                                             2012         2013      2014   2015               Data Source/
Intermediate Results Indicators          Measur    Project    To Date                                             Frequency                        for Data           Comments



                                  Core
                                                                                                                              Methodology
                                         ement       Start     (2011)                                                                             Collection
                                                    (2002)
                                                                                                                               site visits and                    these projects will
                                                                                                                              technical/finan                     influence the
                                                                                                                                cial review                       technology options
                                                                                                                                                                  available, so this
                                                                                                                                                                  indicator is left open
                                                                                                                                                                  to IDCOL’s
                                                                                                                                                                  discretion

Intermediate Result 2: Promote more efficient energy consumption through installation of compact fluorescent lamps
                                                                                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                                                                  Although not
                                                                                                                                 Progress
3. Number of incandescent                                                                                                                                         included under the
                                                                                                                                  Report
                                                                                                                                                                  proposed additional
bulbs replaced with energy                                                                                                    capturing data
                                         Number       0       10,000,000   27,500,000                             Quarterly                          REB          financing, this will
efficient compact fluorescent                                                                                                 collected from
                                                                                                                                                                  be ongoing from the
lamps                                                                                                                         the PBSs and
                                                                                                                                                                  first additional
                                                                                                                                 the other
                                                                                                                                                                  financing credit
                                                                                                                                  utilities




                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                               ANNEX 2
                           O PERATIONAL R ISK ASSESSMENT F RAMEWORK (ORAF )
                                                         Negotiations Version

                                                   Project Development Objective(s)

Increase access to electricity in rural areas of Bangladesh and help promote more efficient energy consumption

PDO Level Results       1. Expand access to rural households through financing of solar home systems
Indicators:             2. Expand renewable energy options for off-grid energy supply in rural areas
                        3. More efficient energy consumption through installation of compact fluorescent lamps




                                                                                                                        Status
                                                                                       Proposed Mitigation Measure   C= completed
                                                                                                                     O = ongoing
                                 Risk                                                                                NYD = Not yet
       Risk Category                                 Risk Description                                                Due
                                Rating
                                                                                                                     N/A = Not
                                                                                                                     Applicable

1. Project Stakeholder Risks
                                  L      The off-grid renewable energy                                                   Not
                                         component is implemented by a                                                applicable
                                         network of NGOs who work as partner
                                         organizations of the implementing
                                         agency IDCOL. These NGOs have been
                                         driving the solar home system program
   1.1 Stakeholder
                                         and have established strong
                                         commitment to the growth of the
                                         program.

                                         The project objective is fully in line with
                                         government’s vision of access to
                                         electricity to all by the year 2020.


                                                                                                                                   19
                                    The weak institutional capacity and           All the major contracts for the CFL are          Ongoing
                                    governance at REB has a consequential         under prior review by the Bank to
                                    risk in procurement, which may put the        minimize the risk of fraud and corruption.
                                    reputation of the borrower and the            Close follow-up by the task team is on-
                                    Bank at risk. This may also cause delays      going to ensure timely completion of the
                                    in implementation of the CFL                  CFL component.
                                    component implemented by REB.
                               ML   IDCOL with its well functioning board
                                    and competent management has
                                    demonstrated strong capability to
3. Implementing Agency
                                    implement the renewable energy
    Risks (including FM & PR
                                    component of the project. REB’s
    Risks)
                                    institutional capacity is deteriorating
                                    but the REB components have already
                                    largely finished under the project
4. Project Risks
                               L    The micro-credit scheme under which                                                              Not
                                    the partner organizations install SHS                                                         applicable
                                    and get refinancing from IDCOL has
                                    been functioning well. Strong oversight
   4.1 Design Risk
                                    and monitoring by IDCOL has been
                                    maintained. No changes to the
                                    implementation mechanism are
                                    envisaged for the proposed additional
                                    financing.
                               L    The safeguard category of the project is B    The first additional financing required the    Ongoing
                                    since there are no significant and/or         battery manufacturers to adopt ISO 14001-
                                    irreversible adverse environmental and        2004 (Environmental Management
                                    social issues in the sub-projects financed    Standard) and OHSAS 18001:1999
                                    under the project. The renewable energy       (Occupational Health & Safety Management
                                    component yields net positive                 Systems) certifications by June 2011 for
   4.2 Safeguards Risk              environmental impacts. The discharge of       proper handling of recycled batteries. Most
                                    lead sulphate in the local environment        of the battery manufacturers have by now
                                    during recycling of used SHS batteries is a   introduced several measures to improve the
                                    concern.                                      environmental and safety condition in
                                                                                  battery recycling processes. They are in the
                                                                                  process of adopting the ISO and OHSAS
                                                                                  certifications. IDCOL has appointed a full-


                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                         time environment and social safeguards
                                                                         specialist to strengthen its monitoring of the
                                                                         battery recycling and to strengthen its
                                                                         overall environment and social safeguards
                                                                         monitoring of the renewable energy
                                                                         program.

                                                                         The Environment Management Framework             During sub-
                                                                         (EMF) of the project has been updated to an      project
                                                                         Environment and Social Management                planning and
                                                                         Framework (ESMF) incorporating social            design
                                                                         safeguards measures for the mini-grid
                                                                         projects. Sub-project specific environmental
                                                                         studies will be carried out as per the ESMF.

                                                                         An annual environmental audit will be            Ongoing
                                                                         undertaken to check compliance with the
                                                                         environmental safeguards measures
                                                                         outlined in the ESMF and the report will
                                                                         be submitted to IDA by June 30 of every
                                                                         year.

                                                                         The technical specifications of the CFLs         Ongoing
                                                                         procured required that the mercury
                                                                         content be less than 5 milligrams per unit.
                                                                         Also a recycling policy will be developed
                                                                         under the project to ensure safe disposal
                                                                         of the CFLs.
                            L    Other development partners are
                                 supporting the renewable energy
                                 program of IDCOL using the same
4.3 Program and Donor
                                 implementation arrangements. There is
    Risk
                                 no issue of donor coordination.
                                 Other development partners largely
                                 recognize the need for strengthening
                                 the REB/PBS system.
                            ML   Rapid growth of the SHS program of      IDCOL has the institutional flexibility to         Ongoing
4.4 Delivery Quality Risk
                                 IDCOL may outstrip IDCOL’s capability   adapt to changes including increasing its
                                 of oversight and monitoring weakening   staff strength to meet the demands. The


                                                                                                                                         21
                                           the quality control mechanism.              task team will keep close monitoring to
                                                                                       ensure signs of institutional stresses, if
                                                                                       any, are detected early and appropriate
                                                                                       actions are taken. Additional TA
                                                                                       resources have been provisioned for in
                                                                                       the proposed additional financing to
                                                                                       strengthen inspection and monitoring.


                                           For the grid component of the project,      The ministerial task force is expected to       Ongoing
                                           financial sustainability of the rural       look into the financial sustainability of the
                                           cooperatives is at stake. There have        REB/PBSs and prepare an appropriate
                                           been inadequate adjustments in retail       action plan.
                                           tariff in recent years, eroding the
                                           financial strength of the PBSs.

                                           Lack of adequate power generation           Government has embarked upon an                 Ongoing
                                           constraints the ability of the PBSs to      ambitious generation expansion plan to
                                           meet demand.                                address generation shortages.
     4.5 Other Risks



 Final Decision Meeting Rating:
                            Risk Rating:   Risk Rating:
Appraisal Decision Chair    Preparation    Implementation         Date        Comments
                                                                              Given the moderate to high risks attributed to the country’s governance
        Overall Risk                                               July 25,   environment and systemic fraud and corruption, and particular project
                                  ML                ML
                                                                    2011      specific risks associated with institutional capacity and possibility of
                                                                              fraud and corruption, the overall risk rating is assessed as M-L.




                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                      ANNEX 3
                                          E CONOMIC AND F INANCIAL ANALYSIS
                                                  Summary Project Performance Indicators
                        Households Benefitted                                     634,000
                        PV modules used                                                29 MWp
                        National Benefits
                        Economic NPV for Project (w/o consumer
                        surplus) @10%                                              20,155 Millions of BDT
                        Economic IRR for Project w/o consumer surplus                 44%
                        Financial NPV for Project @15%                              8,546 Millions of BDT
                        Financial IRR for Project                                     34%

                        Annual Kerosene Saved                                                                               46 million liters/year
                        Value of kerosene saved to nation                                                                2,725 millions BDT per year

                        NPV Kerosene subsidies offset                                                                    5,051     millions BDT
                        NPV Taxes Earned (from hardware sales)                                                             217     millions BDT
                        SHS grants provided                                                                              1,218     millions BDT
                        NPV net fiscal impact                                                                            4,051     millions BDT
                        Household Benefits
                        PV electricity delivered                                                                        48,051 MWh/year
                        NPV net financial benefits for households                                                        8,143 Millions BDT
                        Financial IRR for Households                                                                       33%
                        Value of Kerosene Saved for households                                                           2,132 millions BDT per year
                        Benefits to Partner Organizations
                        NPV @ 15%                                                                                        5,576 Millions BDT
                        Financial rate of return                                                                           44%
                        Global Benefits
                        CO2 emissions offset                                                                       111,690 tons CO2/year


Project Economic and Financial Viability. The economic and financial analysis is based on the
supply and installation of 634,000 solar home systems of varying capacities for a period of about
15 months beginning April 2011. The pace of installation is conservatively assumed to be the
same as it is today, about 35,000 a month and rising to 40,000 per month towards the end of the
project. For analysis purposes, the product mix is assumed to be the same as that from January
2010 to March 2011. The product economic and financial costs and retail prices (net of grant of
$28/SHS in 2010 and $25/SHS in 2011) is given in Table 1. The assumed market share is given
in Table 2.

                Table 1 Economic and Financial Cost Breakdown (BDT) for Representative SHS
    Wp ->                        20                                    40                                    50                             65                Weighted Average       46
                            Duties &                               Duties &                                  Duties &     Total           Duties &   Total           Duties &    Total
  Component     Base Cost    Taxes      Total Price    Base Cost    Taxes       Total Price    Base Cost      Taxes       Price Base Cost Taxes      Price Base Cost Taxes       Price
Solar Panel        3,810          -            3,810       7,229          -            7,229         8,890        -        8,890  11,416       -     11,416   8,239       -       8,239
Battery            3,524         881           4,405       5,610        1,402          7,012         7,518      1,880      9,398   9,099    2,275    11,374   6,775    1,694      8,468
Charge Control.       900          72            972         854           68            923           840         67        908     830        66      897     853         68      921
Light Set          1,022         123           1,144       1,648          198          1,845         1,907        229      2,136   2,355      283     2,638   1,802      216      2,018
Other Access.      2,288          -            2,288       4,125          -            4,125         5,126        -        5,126   5,803       -      5,803   4,537       -       4,537
Transport             458         -              458         543          -              543           534        -          534     739       -        739     579       -         579
Installation          458         -              458         543          -              543           534        -          534     739       -        739     579       -         579
Operational        1,716          -            1,716       2,171          -            2,171         2,670        -        2,670   3,165       -      3,165   2,518       -       2,518
Total Cost        14,175       1,076         15,251       22,722        1,668        24,391         28,020      2,176     30,196  34,147    2,624    36,771 25,881     1,978     27,859
Subsidy                                       1,921                                   1,921                                1,921                      1,921     1,921             1,921
Price after
subsidy                                      13,330                                  22,470                               28,275                     34,850    23,960            25,938




                                                                                                                                                                                    23
                            Table 2 SHS Market Share and Weighted Average Cost/Price
                                                                   Costs (BDT)                      Financing (BDT)
                             Based on 2010-                                            Down                                   IDCOL
    Market Share               2011 Sales     No. of SHS     Economic Financial       Payment       Grant       PO Loan        Loan
    20Wp                          21%            132,263         14,175     15,251        1,333        1,921       2,929        9,068
    40Wp                          19%            121,216         22,722     24,391        2,247        1,921       4,938       15,285
    50Wp                          31%            198,209         28,020     30,196        2,828        1,921       6,213       19,234
    65Wp                          29%            182,313         34,147     36,771        3,485        1,921       7,658       23,707
    Weighted Average Cost                                        25,881     27,859        2,594        1,921       5,700       17,644


The economic analysis takes into account the economic cost of the installations, the replacement
costs of key components and Operating and Maintenance (O&M) services. Analyses are done in
constant 2010 BDT. The benefits are accrued due to offsetting kerosene lighting, avoiding
having to recharge batteries for those using car batteries for watching TV or other purposes
(Table 3). Economic and financial value of carbon emissions reductions was assumed to be
$34/ton and $10/ton of CO2 avoided, respectively and available for ten years. The weighted
average reduction in kerosene emissions from the mix of SHS sizes was 0.18 tons per SHS per
year. Consumer surplus valued only the additional benefits accrued due to improved lighting
available from the SHS compared to kerosene lamps. Kerosene retail price used was 46
BDT/liter and the economic price was 59 BDT/liter. The SHS is expected to deliver 4.5 Wh/Wp
of electricity daily. The consumer surplus takes into account only the benefits accrued from
improved lighting services, the local environmental and safety benefits of switching from
kerosene to electric lighting is not taken into account. The consumer surplus calculation is done
using financial costs (since these are the costs actually seen by the consumer). 8

                            Table 3 Avoided Financial and Economic Costs from an SHS
                                                           Avoided Financial Costs
                                                                                               Weighted
                SHS Size (Wp) ->                     20              40          50       65   Average         Life
                Number of lamps                       2               3           4        5            4                 2
                Kerosene (Liters/Year)              51              51          74      104            73
                Lamp Cost                         160              260         280      280           251                 2
                Kerosene Fuel Cost/Year         2,329            2,329       3,395    4,764         3,363
                Battery Cost                      -              6,215       6,215    6,215         4,918                 2
                Recharging Cost/Year              -              2,880       2,880    2,880         2,279

                                                          Avoided Economic Costs
                                                                                               Weighted
                SHS Size (Wp) ->                     20              40          50       65   Average         Life
                Kerosene (Liters/Year)              51              51          74      104            73             -
                Lamps Cost                        160              260         280      280           251                 2
                Kerosene Fuel Cost/Year         2,978            2,978       4,340    6,089         4,298             -
                Battery Cost                      -              4,972       4,972    4,972         3,935                 2
                Recharging Cost/Year              -              2,880       2,880    2,880         2,279


From both an economic and financial viewpoint the project has high and robust internal rates of
return (IRR), even without considering consumer surplus benefits. The economic IRR is 44%
and the financial IRR is 34% as detailed in Tables 4 and 5. Average kerosene fuel consumption

8
 The consumer surplus estimation approach used was from Peter Meier, An Economic Analysis of Solar Homes
Systems: A Case Study for the Philippines, February 3, 2003, The World Bank

                                                                                                                                   24
per household needs to drop to 1 liter per month before the economic NPV reduces to zero at a
10% discount rate. Such low levels of consumptions have not been observed in Bangladesh
among households considering purchasing SHS.

                                              Table 4 Economic Analysis of the SHS Component
                                                                             ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SHS COMPONENT
                                                   Costs (Millions of BDT)                                                Benefits (Millions of BDT)                                    Net Benefits
                                                 Replacements                                             Avoided   Avoided    Consumer                        Total                    w/o Consum.
       Year                  Capex        Lights    Controller Battery          O&M        Total Costs    Kerosene Charging      Surplus         CERs        Benefits    Net Benefits     Surplus
                    1           16,408                                                          16,408        2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        14,457          (9,311)
                    2                         1,142                                               1,142       2,725   1,445          23,768          273        28,212        27,070           3,301
                    3                                      541                                      541       2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        30,325           6,557
                    4                         1,142                                  532          1,674       2,725   1,445          23,768          273        28,212        26,538           2,769
                    5                                                                532            532       2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        30,334           6,565
                    6                         1,142        541      4,295            532          6,510       2,725   1,445          23,768          273        28,212        21,702          (2,067)
                    7                                                                532            532       2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        30,334           6,565
                    8                         1,142                                  532          1,674       2,725   1,445          23,768          273        28,212        26,538           2,769
                    9                                      541                       532          1,073       2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        29,793           6,025
                   10                         1,142                                  532          1,674       2,725   1,445          23,768          273        28,212        26,538           2,769
                   11                                               4,295            532          4,827       2,884   3,940          23,768          273        30,866        26,038           2,270
                   12                         1,142        541                       532          2,215       2,725   1,445          23,768                     27,938        25,723           1,955
                   13                                                                532            532       2,884   3,940          23,768                     30,592        30,060           6,292
                   14                         1,142                                  532          1,674       2,725   1,445          23,768                     27,938        26,264           2,496
                   15                                      541                       532          1,073       2,884   3,940          23,768                     30,592        29,520           5,751
                   16                         1,142                 4,295            532          5,969       2,725   1,445          23,768                     27,938        21,969          (1,799)
                   17                                                                532            532       2,884   3,940          23,768                     30,592        30,060           6,292
                   18                         1,142        541                       532          2,215       2,725   1,445          23,768                     27,938        25,723           1,955
                   19                                                                532            532       2,884   3,940          23,768                     30,592        30,060           6,292
                   20                         1,142                                  532          1,674       2,725   1,445          23,768                     27,938        26,264           2,496
NPV @ 10%                       14,917        7,018      2,355     10,681          4,269        28,958      23,910   23,427         202,353        1,776       251,466       222,508          20,155
                                                                                                                                                           IRR                                   44%



                                              Table 5 Financial Analysis of the SHS Component
                                                                    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SHS COMPONENT
                                                           Costs (Millions of BDT)                                                    Benefits (Millions of BDT)
                                                         Replacements                                                       Avoided    Avoided                              Total
            Year                 Capex           Lights     Controller Battery       O&M        Total Costs                 Kerosene Charging          CERs                Benefits Net Benefits
                         1          16,445                                                           16,445                     2,291    4,563               80               6,935      (9,510)
                         2                           1,279                                             1,279                    2,132    1,445               80               3,657       2,378
                         3                                        584                                    584                    2,291    4,563               80               6,935       6,351
                         4                           1,279                                532          1,811                    2,132    1,445               80               3,657       1,846
                         5                                                                532            532                    2,291    4,563               80               6,935       6,403
                         6                           1,279        584        5,369        532          7,764                    2,132    1,445               80               3,657      (4,107)
                         7                                                                532            532                    2,291    4,563               80               6,935       6,403
                         8                           1,279                                532          1,811                    2,132    1,445               80               3,657       1,846
                         9                                        584                     532          1,116                    2,291    4,563               80               6,935       5,819
                        10                           1,279                                532          1,811                    2,132    1,445               80               3,657       1,846
                        11                                                   5,369        532          5,901                    2,291    4,563                                6,854         953
                        12                           1,279        584                     532          2,395                    2,132    1,445                                3,577       1,182
                        13                                                                532            532                    2,291    4,563                                6,854       6,322
                        14                           1,279                                532          1,811                    2,132    1,445                                3,577       1,765
                        15                                        584                     532          1,116                    2,291    4,563                                6,854       5,738
                        16                           1,279                   5,369        532          7,180                    2,132    1,445                                3,577      (3,603)
                        17                                                                532            532                    2,291    4,563                                6,854       6,322
                        18                           1,279        584                     532          2,395                    2,132    1,445                                3,577       1,182
                        19                                                                532            532                    2,291    4,563                                6,854       6,322
                        20                           1,279                                532          1,811                    2,132    1,445                                3,577       1,765
NPV @15%                             14,300          6,420      2,210       12,258      3,218        25,219                   13,877    19,485              404              33,765       8,546
                                                                                                                                                                         IRR                34%



PO Viewpoint. From the viewpoint of the POs, the SHS business is financially attractive, with
IRR for the POs of 44%. It assumes IDCOL financing of 70% of debt at 6 percent with loan
tenor of 10 years with a 2 year grace period. The PO extends loans to the households at 15%.
Detailed cash flow is given in Table 6.




                                                                                                                                                                                                25
                                                                  Table 6 Cash Flow for the PO
Cash Flow for Sales of      634000 SHS             in Millions of BDT
                                                                                                                                               PV of
                                                               Customer Refinancing Installment   Interest Operational  Loan                   Future   Equivalent Synthetic
                         Payment to    Operating    Subsidy     Down       from        from     Income on Cusyomer Payment to      Net Cash     Cash      Annual     Cash
        Year              Suppliers    Expenses     Receipt    Payment    IDCOL     Customers Installment Payments     IDCOL        Flow       Flows     Payment    Flows
                    0        (4,978)       (624)                        986                                                (344)     (4,960)                          (4,960)
                    1        (4,967)     (1,117)         680            780     5,737   2,732        656        891        (616)      4,775                            4,775
                    2                    (1,117)         538                    4,538   4,893      1,174      1,596      (1,384)     10,238                   1,070    1,070
                    3                    (1,117)                                        4,893      1,174      1,596      (1,655)      4,891                   1,070    1,070
                    4                    (1,117)                                        2,161        519      1,596      (2,385)        773                   1,070    1,070
                    5                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                    6                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                                                                                                                                                7,245
                    7                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                    8                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                    9                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                   10                    (1,117)                                                              1,596      (2,385)     (1,906)                  1,070    1,070
                   11                    (1,117)                                                              1,596       (731)        (252)                  1,070    1,070
                                                                                                                      NPV @15%        5,576             IRR              44%
Note It is asumed that interest on outstanding IDCOL loan balance is paid during grace period on IDCOL loan



Household viewpoint. The market response, in this demand driven project in itself provides a
high degree of confidence that the individual households find that the SHS are attractive
investments. The lighting and other services available from an SHS are summarized in Table 7.
The 20 Wp SHS offers 6 hours of lighting from two 7 Wp SHS (12 light-hours). The larger
systems offer 12 to 20 light-hours per day. The larger systems also offer an additional 20 hours
of TV viewing or other equivalent services.

                                                                        Table 7 Services from SHS
               SHS Services Available                                            20               40            50                 65 Weighted Avg
               No. of 7 W lamps                                                   2                3             4                  5             4
               Hours/day                                                      6.0               4.0           3.0                4.0            4.1
               Wh/day available                                                 90              180           225                293           208
               Lighting Energy Used                                             84               84            84                140           100
               Excess Energy Available                                           6               96           141                153           108
               TV Rating (W)                                                  -                  30            50                 50             45
               Battery capacity
               (1 week) Ah                                                      5                75           110                119                     84
               TV Hours/Week                                                                     22            20                 21                     21

A detailed financial analysis for individual systems finds that SHS are financially attractive with
positive IRR and positive NPV for all systems except the smallest 20 Wp (Table 8). However,
as the demand for the small SHS over the years has shown steady increase in market share,
market evidence points to the fact that the customers who purchase the small SHS do find it of
value. The market share of SHS 20 Wp and smaller increased from 1% of total in 2008 to 15%
in 2009, to 20% in 2010 and 24% in the first two months of 2011.




                                                                                                                                                                         26
                            Table 8 Financial Viability of Individual SHS
                                      SHS Financial Viability for Households
                                           20 Wp           40 Wp         50 Wp        65 Wp
                  Levelized Electricity
                  Cost (BDT/Wh)               0.108          0.084            0.084     0.078
                  Financial NPV @ 15%
                  (BDT)                       (7,106)       25,537        24,273       24,154
                  FIRR                           n/a           51%           39%          33%
                  NPV w/Consumer
                  Surplus Benefits                          Highly positive


A sample financial cash flow analysis for an SHS user is given in Table 9. The costs include the
initial cost of supply and installation, O&M and replacement of battery, and controller over time.
The benefits to a household comprise of avoided purchase of kerosene lanterns, batteries,
kerosene fuel, and battery recharging costs.

                     Table 9 Sample Financial Cash Flow Analysis for a SHS
              50Wp                Financial Benefits (BDT)
                                     Kerosene         Battery
                                      Lighting       Charging     Total     Net
                 Year   SHS Cost      Savings         Savings    Benefits Benefits
                      1   28,275           3,675           9,095  12,770   (15,505)
                      2     2,136          3,395           2,880   6,275     4,139
                      3       908          3,675           9,095  12,770    11,862
                      4     3,026          3,395           2,880   6,275     3,249
                      5       890          3,675           9,095  12,770    11,880
                      6   13,331           3,395           2,880   6,275    (7,056)
                      7       890          3,675           9,095  12,770    11,880
                      8     3,026          3,395           2,880   6,275     3,249
                      9     1,798          3,675           9,095  12,770    10,972
                    10      3,026          3,395           2,880   6,275     3,249
                    11    10,288           3,675           9,095  12,770     2,482
                    12      3,934          3,395           2,880   6,275     2,341
                    13        890          3,675           9,095  12,770    11,880
                    14      3,026          3,395           2,880   6,275     3,249
                    15      1,798          3,675           9,095  12,770    10,972
                    16    12,424           3,395           2,880   6,275    (6,149)
                    17        890          3,675          9,095   12,770    11,880
                    18      3,934          3,395          2,880    6,275     2,341
                    19        890          3,675          9,095   12,770    11,880
                    20      3,026          3,395          2,880    6,275     3,249
                                                 NPV @ 15%                  24,273
                                                 IRR                           39%




                                                                                                27
Global Benefits. The use of SHS offsets the use of 46 million liters of kerosene and the
reduction in emissions from kerosene lantern use of 111,690 tons of CO2. Additional CO2
emissions reductions also occur as recharging batteries using fossil fuel generators are avoided.
The economic value of global benefits if assumed to accrue only for ten years is BDT 1,776
million on a NPV basis.

National Benefits. The use of kerosene is estimated to drop by about 46 million liters a year.
The kerosene subsidy saved (estimated as the difference between the economic cost of kerosene
and its financial cost), is BDT 5,051 million on a net present value basis over 20 years, assuming
that the real price of kerosene does not increase and retail price remains unchanged. The
Government will earn BDT 217 million in taxes on SHS components on a NPV basis. The
grants for SHS sales are valued at BDT 1,218 million. The Government consequently has
positive fiscal returns of BDT 4,051 million on a NPV basis. Income and other taxes that POs
and IDCOL have to pay will further increase fiscal revenues.




                                                                                               28
                                ANNEX 4
              O PERATIONS P OLICY 8.30 C OMPLIANCE R EVIEW

   I.      Introduction

1. This is a review of the proposed second additional financing for Bangladesh: Rural
Electrification and Renewable Energy Development (RERED) Project, to ascertain its
compliance with the World Bank Operations Policy 8.30 (OP8.30) requirements. This review is
based on study of the available background documents, discussions with the Task Team Leader
and team members, and examination of documents submitted by Infrastructure Development
Company Limited (IDCOL), the financial intermediary (FI) for the project.

   II.     The Project: Financial Sector Context and Objectives

2. The RERED, scheduled to close in December 31, 2012, has been under implementation with
the objective of increasing access to electricity in rural areas of Bangladesh. The project
supports installation of Solar Home Systems (SHSs) and renewable energy based mini-grids for
providing affordable and reliable electricity to the remote rural areas of Bangladesh. The off-
grid component of RERED is being implemented by IDCOL, which on-lends to selected partner
organizations (POs) across the country. The proposed second additional financing of RERED
aims at scaling up the off-grid renewable energy component (US$172 million) keeping the
project objectives same.

3. Availability of electricity not only improves quality of livelihood but enhances delivery of
social services like education and health in rural areas. As such, it promotes inclusive growth as
stated in the third pillar of the CAS 2010 - 2013. On the other hand, financing real sector
investment in affordable power in environmentally friendly manner and promoting development
of participating FIs are real benefits derived from a financial intermediary loan (FIL), which is
consistent with the first pillar of CAS 2010 - 2013. Thus, second additional financing for the FIL
is very much consistent with the country’s poverty reduction objectives.

   III.    Policy Framework for the FIL

4. Despite the recent turmoil in Bangladesh capital market and the associated chaos in the
banking sector, the risk of a systemic failure in the market for financial intermediation has been
assessed to be minimal. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the resultant upward pressure on interest
rates are not likely to create serious macro instability. This is plausible in the context of
consistent and successful macroeconomic management over the years resulting in a steady
growth trail, relatively moderate inflation rate (except for the recent food price hike), and
relatively stable exchange rate.

5. The ongoing global financial crisis is yet to be over; a number of economies in European
Union are going through severe fiscal and monetary muddle. Private sector confidence on
‘market’ is yet to be restored in the US. Not to mention the fiscal/budgetary strain on the
governments of the US and Japan. Amid all these, Bangladesh continues to be one of the least


                                                                                               29
affected countries and remains on the trail of 5.5% - 6% growth in GDP. Small size of the
economy, relatively low integration with global financial markets, and entrepreneurial zeal in the
domestic private sector continue to be the primary reasons for this apparent insulation and
resilience. There are some issues though, on the real side; new investments are seriously
constrained by infrastructure bottleneck accumulated over the years and growth in the country’s
remittance flow is at a crossroad of uncertainty. However, exports in the readymade garments
sector remain vibrant and pose a bright outlook in the foreseeable future. As such,
notwithstanding low to moderate degree of risk associated with international as well as domestic
markets, there are balancing forces and no major shift in fiscal and monetary/financial policy
stance of the government will be required or expected in the immediate future.

6. One important aspect of OP8.30 compliance review is likelihood of Government intervention
in the market through the project, leading to distortion in the process of financial intermediation.
As in the ongoing project, implementation arrangements would remain the same for the second
additional financing; i.e. IDCOL would provide financing to the POs (NGOs, micro-finance
institutions, cooperatives, and private organizations) to sell the SHSs to consumers using a micro
finance scheme. The POs have greater access as well as acceptability at the community level.
Hands on expertise and experience in implementing micro-finance operations would also be a
criterion. The POs would extend micro-finance for consumers to buy the SHSs and would, in
turn, get re-financing from IDCOL for up to 80% of the micro-finance extended to consumers.
The POs’ operation would be at the market determined interest rate, as in other microfinance
services they provide. Currently the POs’ interest rate varies between 12% -15% (nominal rate)
with a repayment period of 2-3 years. The POs receive re-financing from IDCOL at 6% - 8%
interest rate with a repayment period of 8-10 years. The cost of funds for the POs under the
RERED project is comparable with their other sources of financing – such as PKSF (Pally
Karma Shahayak Foundation), the apex institution financing micro-finance organizations in
Bangladesh. Thus there would be no significant market distortions arising from implementation
of the additional financing for RERED.

7. There is, however, some subsidy component to continue in the lending process of SHS to
poor households. A small subsidy of US$ 28 per SHS per household (initially the subsidy was
US$ 90) on the selling price is provided to buy down the capital cost of SHS. Grant funding is
also provided to overcome the initial market barriers by increasing awareness among the poor
households, building capacity of the POs and training the households on operating the systems. It
is expected that the need for subsidy would continue to decrease as the remaining market barriers
are overcome, competition is enhanced in the market, and the SHSs become affordable enough to
reach even more remote areas and poorer households.

   IV.      Eligibility of the FI

   1. Implementation Progress

8. As per the background documents, implementation progress of the renewable energy
component implemented by IDCOL is rated satisfactory consistently. Against initial project
target of 50,000 households, over 236,000 households were provided with SHS-based electricity
under the original credit. Under the first additional financing, together with support from other


                                                                                                 30
development partners, a million SHS have been installed by June 2011. Currently over 40,000
households are getting SHS installed per month. The pace of growth suggests that there is
demand for SHS at the household level and IDCOL can utilize additional resources needed for
satisfying the market demand.

   2. Financial Performance of IDCOL

       (i) Capitalization: In terms of capitalization, IDCOL is in good standing. As of June 30,
       2010, share capital is BDT 660 million and total equity is BDT 956.75 million,
       representing an increase of about 65% and 75% respectively over the level during the last
       OP8.30 review in 2009. The share capital and total equity is around 9% and 14%
       respectively of the loans and advances outstanding (these were 41% and 56%
       respectively during the last OP8.30 review in 2009). Sharp decline in the capitalization to
       loans and advances ratio is due to sharp rise in long term loans made to power sector,
       especially to the renewable energy sector.

       (ii) Recovery Performance: The implementation of the IDCOL approach has proven to
       be sustainable and without compromising with the loan recovery rate. Recovery rate has
       been sustained at 94%, on an average, at PO-beneficiary level and 100% at IDCOL-PO
       level.

       (iii)Loan Loss Provisioning: IDCOL does abide by provisioning guidelines of
       Bangladesh Bank - the central bank of the country. The financial intermediary has been
       provisioning 1% for unclassified loans and 5% for the classified part of the portfolio, as
       per the regulation.

       (iv) Accounts Keeping: Accounting documents and financial statements of the Company
       have been audited by renowned audit firms over the last three fiscal/accounting years. It
       appears that adequate numbers of disclosures (mandatory and voluntary) have been made
       in the company annual reports and those were approved by the auditors.

       (v) Profitability: As per the audited financial statements, IDCOL has been earning
       profits, which is adequate to support sustainability and business continuity of the FI.

   3. Exemptions

      As per Bangladesh Bank Circular IDCOL is exempted from compliance of sections 4(d),
      6,9,14(1),14(1)(d),14(1)(e),14(1)(f), 16, 17, 18, 19, and 25(3) of the Financial Institutions
      Act 1993. These exemptions provide Government guarantees and enhance IDCOL’s
      capacity to sustain as a viable non-banking financial institution in Bangladesh.

   4. Under the original project and during the first additional financing processing, IDCOL
      received OP8.30 clearance at the appraisal stage.




                                                                                                 31
   V.      Recommendations

9. Considering the issues covered in the previous sections and based on other available
information, it can be concluded that IDCOL, the financial intermediary for RERED, is
compliant to Bank’s OP 8.30 requirements. However, it is recommended that adequate care and
due diligence be carried out as regards the following aspects:

        (a) In order to be compliant to CAS pillars and outcomes, RERED would remain focused
            on poor households’ demand satisfaction.
        (b) The project team would definitely need to keep a close eye on the impact of global
            financial crisis as well as domestic capital and money market crunch on IDCOL, on
            the POs, on the rural households dependent on remittance, and on the project’s
            financial management as a whole.
        (c) The standards and criteria used for selecting POs by IDCOL should be maintained
            and, if necessary, can be revised for improving quality of implementation.
        (d) It is understood that the amount of subsidy component is less than significant and is
            required for reaching poorer households in the rural areas. IDCOL should continue to
            have guard on the use of the subsidy component to make sure it reaches the intended
            beneficiaries.
        (e) For these kinds of projects, success in project management as well as in financial
            performance of the FIs/POs depends on close monitoring by the implementing
            agency. Therefore, as the second additional financing is implemented, a more
            rigorous monitoring system (including through frequent field visits) put in place
            would only help maintaining the high standards upheld thus far.




                                                                                               32
                                          ANNEX 5
                    F INANCIAL M ANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
1.     Brief Project Description: The proposed second additional financing amounting to
US$172 million would help finance the costs associated with further scaling up of the project’s
renewable energy component supporting installations of Solar Home System (SHSs), in the
remote rural areas of Bangladesh. The second Additional Financing (AF) will be implemented
by the Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), a Financial Intermediary, fully
owned by the Government. The SHS program is implemented by IDCOL through eligible
Partner Organizations (POs) under a micro-credit scheme.

2.      FM arrangement: Since the inception of the project, IDCOL has been using its entity
FM system for financial management of the Project. IDCOL’s Financial Management
organization and systems have been found adequate to manage its operation and to undertake the
project financial management activities. During the implementation of the project, IDCOL
financial management team has also acquired significant experience in IDA procedures and
requirements. Under the circumstances, the financial management (FM) arrangements used in
the original project and in the first AF, which are satisfactory to IDA, will continue under the
second AF with add on arrangement to enhance controls at PO level.

3.     Disbursements and Flow of Funds: The second AF will use the same transaction based
disbursement used in the original credit and in the first AF. IDA funds will continue to be
channeled through the existing designated account (CONTASA) operated by IDCOL. Out of the
US$172 million proposed for the second AF, US$157 million will be financing loans for SHS
and mini-grids. This will be made available to IDCOL through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the Finance Division of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). An amount of US$9 million is
proposed as subsidies for SHS and mini-grids. This will be made available to IDCOL through a
Subsidiary Grant Agreement with the Finance Division of MOF. The remaining US$6 million is
proposed for testing facilities for SHS, operating expenses for carbon finance related activities,
and technical assistance. Out of this US$6 million, US$4 million is proposed to be made
available to IDCOL as loan under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the MOF and the
remaining US$2 million as grant under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement with the MOF. Funds will
flow from IDCOL to Participating Organizations (POs) through sub-loans under Participation
Agreements between IDCOL and the POs. IDA will finance 100% inclusive of taxes in sub-
loans and goods and services associated with management of sub-loans.

4.     Disbursement Category: IDA financing under the credit through the various
disbursement categories would be as follows.




                                                                                               33
                                       Disbursement Table

                       Category            US$ Million       % of IDA Financing
               (1) Sub-loans                  157.00                 100%

               (2) Subsidies                    9.00                 100%

               (3) Goods, consultants’          6.00                 100%
               services training, and
               operating expenses
               Total Amount                   172.00

5.      Accounting: Since IDCOL as a financial intermediary will be borrowing IDA funds
under the second AF from the Government, IDCOL’s records and financial statements should
continue to reflect the amounts payable to the Government and receivable from the POs. In
ensuring accounting and financial control of transactions under the second AF, IDCOL shall
maintain adequate FM systems within the entity and in the POs. The commitments of the POs
has been ensured through insertion of the following provisions in the Operating Guidelines of the
project:

“POs shall:
      (i)      maintain a financial management system including records and accounts, and
               prepare, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the
               Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect distinctly the operations,
               resources and expenditures related to subloans granted under the Project.
       (ii)    have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
               of income and expenses and related statements distinctly identifying ) for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the
               Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors listed under the List of
               Auditors Grade-A of Bangladesh Bank ;
       (iii)   promptly furnish at the request of the Association, as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
               of the financial statements referred to in clause (i) of this Section, for such year as
               so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested including a management letter indicating auditor’s findings
               on state of governance ,internal controls and management practices involved in
               POs’ operations and measures recommended by auditors to overcome
               weaknesses; and
       (iv)    furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records,
               accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said
               auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request

6.     The provisions suggested above were a requirement under the first AF as well. However,
while FM systems were largely in compliance within IDCOL, no Operating Guidelines were

                                                                                                   34
prepared for the first AF and some of the relevant provisions applicable to POs (e.g. timely
submission of audit reports of the POs) were not enforced. An Operating Guideline was
prepared for the GPOBA Grant under the project, which however has been deficient in some FM
areas. An Operating Guideline that includes the above provisions and acceptable to IDA has now
been adopted.

7.      Financial Reporting: The format, content and periodicity (within 45 days of the
completion of quarters) of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) under the original Credit and
first AF will continue for the second AF as well. During the first AF, FMRs have been received
in a reasonably timely manner and with acceptable quality. However, FMRs are still produced
from a standalone excel spreadsheet with scope for error and manipulation. Although IDCOL has
developed a comprehensive software solution to automate its activities including management
and utilization of donor’s fund, processing of disbursement and grants, verification process etc,
the system is yet to generate FMRs from the entity accounting system automatically, without
additional process. IDCOL has however agreed to incorporate necessary modifications in its
computerized accounting system so that FMRs can be automatically generated from the entity
accounting system itself without further add on process.

8.      Internal Control: The Participating Agreements that IDCOL has with its POs contain
provisions requiring POs to maintain adequate FM arrangement in respect of SHSs and to submit
financial reports and audited financial statements to IDCOL. However these were not fully
complied with. While the POs had their own consolidated accounts audited by external auditors
in time, the IDCOL appointed auditors’ reports on the financial statements for the SHS program
of the POs, for the FY 2009-10, were received only recently against the requirement of not later
than 45 /60 days after the year end. IDCOL has agreed to intensify its follow-up measures to
ensure that POs comply with the agreed terms of the Agreement from FY11 onwards. IDCOL
management has strengthened its field level monitoring by engaging its staff for inspecting and
auditing POs records and carry out FM assessment of the POs. IDCOL’s Collection Efficiency
Inspectors regularly visit POs all over the country, selecting the sites on random selection basis,
to: i) verify and report on data and records maintained by the POs; ii) assess their loan
monitoring activities; iii) calculate collection efficiency; iv) audit books of accounts maintained
by the POs; and v) reassess their capacities. IDCOL agreed to share with IDA its assessment of
financial management capacities and practices of the POs on a regular basis during the remaining
period of the project.
9.      Audit: The audit reports on IDCOL entity financial statements and the project financial
statements for the FY 2009-10 were submitted to IDA on 20 February 2011 against the
requirement of submission by December 31, 2010. IDCOL undertook to identify and adhere to
action steps that would facilitate IDCOL meeting the deadlines during the second AF. It was
observed that audited financial statements of the entity did not report project activities
undertaken and cost thereof, IDA funding of the cost, unspent IDA fund etc. Management Letter
on the entity audited financial statements also do not adequately report on the assessment of
internal control measures e.g., accounting issues, governance, risk management etc, which are
material to the IDA. These were communicated to IDCOL and IDCOL agreed to address these
deficiencies in the FY2011 accounts.



                                                                                                35
The audit requirement under the second AF that will be tracked through the Audit Report
Compliance System (ARCS) will follow the provisions of the original project as stated in the
following table:

Implementing Agency                          Audit                 Auditors
IDCOL                            Project Financial Statements      Private Auditor
IDCOL                            Entity                            Private Auditor

10.      FM Risks: From the fiduciary perspective, the overall FM risk for the Second AF is
assessed as Substantial. This is composed of high inherent risk at country level and substantial to
moderate control risks at the project level. The following matrix presents the risks associated
with this project and their respective mitigation measures.

   Identified FM risks               Rating Mitigation measures                      Rating Post
                                                                                     Mitigation
   Fund Flow                         S                                               S

   Fund flow to IDCOL and to                  Signing of Subsidiary Loan
   IDCOL’s POs,        might be               Agreement and Subsidiary Grant
   constrained due to delays in:              Agreement between GOB and
   (a) financing arrangements                 IDCOL       will be conditions for
   between the Government and                 effectiveness.
   IDCOL

   (b)   Refinancing agreement                IDCOL’s lending terms to its POs
   between IDCOL and POs                      will be agreed during negotiations.
                                              IDCOL agreed that its assessment
                                              of POs will encompass an
                                              assessment of their FM capacities
                                              as well

   Internal Control                  S                                               M

   IDCOL’s coverage of POs and                IDCOL incorporated in its
   its unit offices accounting,               Operating Guidelines all the IDA
   internal control and customer              recommendations on enhancing
   loan recovering systems for                financial systems and controls of
   tracking the flow and use of               the POs.
   fund are yet to be streamlined

   Audited financial statements of            The Project Agreement between
   the POs may continue its                   IDA and IDCOL will contain
   current trend of delayed                   provisions requiring the POs to
   submission.                                maintain adequate FM systems.
                                              IDCOL is to intensify its follow-
                                              up during audit of the POs to


                                                                                                36
                                            ensure that audited accounts of the
                                            PO are submitted on time.
  Accounting and Financial S                                                      S
  Reporting
  Timely, reliable and accurate             IDCOL agreed to incorporate
  reporting under AF may be                 necessary modification into the
  constrained due to FMRs not               computerized accounting system
  produced from the entity                  so that FMRs would be generated
  accounting systems.                       from entity accounting system
                                            without any additional process.

  Financial statements of the               IDCOL agreed to ensure that
  entity may continue without               financial statements of the entity
  reporting distinctly the project          henceforth will report project
  activities – sources of fund and          activities – both physical and
  their applications.                       financial

  Audit                              S                                            M

  Entity audit report may not be            IDCOL undertook to submit the
  submitted     on or before the            audit reports on time. Adequate
  due date of submission.                   follow up will be made by IDA
                                            well ahead of the deadlines.


  Management Letter may not                 While clearing the Audit TORs for
  report and cover adequately               FY12, IDA will ensure that it
  governance and accountability             contains provisions requiring
  issues involved in IDCOL’s                management letters to indicate
  operation including project               auditor’s findings on state of
  management.                               governance, internal controls and
                                            management practices involved in
                                            IDCOL’s operations and measures
                                            recommended by auditors to
                                            overcome weaknesses

11.     Supervision Plan: The initial supervision will focus on compliance with all agreed
actions, identifying any FM or disbursement issues in project implementation and agreeing on
redress measures. Production of first Interim Unaudited Financial Report (IUFR) from the
computerized accounting system of IDCOL on time, and use of internal controls on FM
functions of the POs will be closely reviewed by IDA's FM unit both on the desk and at site as
deemed appropriate for fulfillment of the fiduciary objectives.




                                                                                           37
                                     ANNEX 6
                             P ROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
1. General
The additional financing proposed is for US$172 million out of which, procurement expenditure
would be around US$3 million. Out of this US$3 million, consulting services would be for
about US$ 2 million and goods worth US$1 million.

The procurement under the proposed additional financing would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank’s "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants" dated January 2011 and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants" dated January 2011,
as well as the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement.

In addition, the project implementation will need to be carried out in compliance with The
Guidelines for Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants (dated October 15, 2006).

2. Review Thresholds
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.

3. Procurement Responsibility
IDCOL will be responsible for procurement of goods and services necessary for implementing
the TA component of the proposed additional financing.

4. Procurement Capacity and Risk Assessment
Small scale procurement capacity assessment of IDCOL was carried out to evaluate the
capability and adequacy of systems in place within the implementing agency IDCOL to
administer Bank-financed procurement. The assessment found that IDCOL, though a
government owned institution, is semi-autonomous in nature and has its own procurement policy
in place. It does not follow the government's procurement law (Public Procurement Regulations
2006, Public Procurement Rules 2008). IDCOL’s procurement policy is in accordance with
established private sector or commercial practices, lacking the transparency and fairness
principles required for public fund utilization. The assessment shows IDCOL does not have
trained personnel with adequate knowledge on public procurement processes and the
requirements of the public procurement rules of Bangladesh. Under the current RERED project,
IDCOL’s role as a financial intermediary did not require procurement. However, the proposed
second additional financing will involve some small value procurements. Considering these, the
procurement risk is rated as “Substantial”. In order to minimize the risk, several measures
including a procurement risk mitigation framework have been introduced.

5. Measures for Improving Governance in Procurement
Several risk mitigation measures have been agreed with IDCOL toward improving governance in
procurement and minimizing procurement risks under the project. The main risk mitigation
measures include that IDCOL will: (i) ensure adequate competition, transparency and fairness

                                                                                                    38
while using the shopping method; (ii) dedicate one staff to act as a procurement specialist and
complete three weeks training on public procurement no later than November 30, 2011; (iii)
ensure a procurement document filing system is in place and is effective by October 1, 2011; iv)
ensure a credible procedure for handling complaints is put in place in IDCOL and made known
to the bidding community prior to sending out the invitation to bid for the first contract. The
salient features of the complaint handling procedure will be an oversight of a complaint database,
a standard protocol with appropriate triggers for carrying out investigations, and actions taken
against involved parties. The procedure will be developed and managed by IDCOL.

Compliance with the above arrangements will ensure that the procurement under this additional
financing is likely to be effective and transparent and result in smooth implementation of the
project. However, procurement process and implementation of the contracts would be reviewed
every six months by the Bank, and adjustments or corrections will be made, as appropriate.




                                                                                               39
