RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-40a
This report was prepared for use within the Baink and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor moy it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
July 10, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCI EQUIVALENTS
uS$ 1.00      * FmG 278
FNG 1.00      - US$ 0.0036
FMG 1 million - US$ 3,600
WEIOGHS AND MA5sunEs
1 hectare (ha.)               m 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)      a 0.3886 square mile
1 cubic meter (m3)           * 35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubie meters (Mm3) - 810.7 acre-feet
1 kilogram (kg)              * 2.205 pounds
1 ton                        - 2,205 pounds
INITIAIS AND ACRoeM S
RES    : Rural Engineering Services
SoMCLAC: Societe Malgache d'Amenagement du Lac Alaotra.
IRAM   : Institut de Recherche Agronomique Malgache
FED    : European Development Fand
FAC    : French Aid and Cooperation Phnd
AMVR   : Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale
BNM    : Development Bank of Madagascar
BCSR   : Office of Commercialization and Stabilization
CCCE   : Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....................................i
I. INTRODUCTION  ............                .................................
Il. BACKGROUND               .........................................O.. 
III. THE PROJECT AREA  .......              ..................................                3
General  .......... .....................................                        3
Climate          ...................................                             3
Topography  and Soils  ............................... .                         3
Population  ..........................................                           4
Farm Size and Land Tenure  ...........................                           4
Irrigation  Facilities  and Drainage  ..................                         4
Development Works and Supporting Services  ..........                  .         4
Agricultural Production                    ...........................           5
Transportation and Marketing ........................                            5
IV. THE PROJECT           .......................................    .                       6
A.   Project Description  ......             .......................             6
B.  Project Works                ...................................             6
Rehabilitation of the Pi Canal  ..............                ..        6
Rehabilitation of the Low Level Canal  .........                        6
Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation
and Drainage Networks  ......................                       7
Construction of Irrigation, Drainage and
Road Networks  in Newly Reclaimed Areas  .....                      7
Construction of Drainage Network on 2,000 Ha  ..                         7
Construction of Main Drainage Outfall
Towards  the Lake .....            ....................             7
On-farm Development Work  .................               .....         7
Experiments  in Crop Diversification  ........              ...          7
C.  Water Supply and Demand  .........................                           8
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Tibor, J. Marinet and A. Otten.






TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Continued)                                                  Page No.
D.  Irrigation Schedule .............................                   8
E.  Engineering Design and Construction Schedule ....                    9
F.  Cost Estimates  ........ ..........................                  9
G.  Financing           .......................................        10
H.  Procurement .....          ................................        12
I.  Disbursement           ....................................        12
J.  Auditing of Accounts  ... ...           ......   ..... .....       12
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......              .......................      13
Project Coordination and Supervision ........ ........                  13
Civil Works ..................................... $ ........... O..     13
On-farm Development Works               ..............   ..............  13
Extension Services  .......         ...........................         14
Experiments in Crop Diversification ......... ........                  14
Agricultural Credit . ................................                  14
Operation and Maintenance  .....            ......................      15
Operation and Maintenance Costs  ................ .         ....        15
Recovery of Costs ..................             .................      15
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME ..                 ..........    18
Production             ..........................................       18
Market Prospects  ....................................                  18
Prices           ..............................................         19
Farmers' Income  .....................................                  19
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......              ........................       20
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS    ................ .. . . .............................      21
ANNEXES
1.   Climatological Data Ambohitsilaozana, Experimental Station (IRAM)
2.  Soils
3.  Societe Malgache d'Amenagement du Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC);
Organization and Ownership, Activities and Financial Structure.
4.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns, Yields, Production Costa
and Returns and Farm Budgets
Table 1. Paddy Rice Production without Improvement of
Irrigation and Drainage
Table 2. (a) Paddy Rice Production with Improvement
of Irrigation and Drainage
(b) Off-Season Crop Production with Improvement
of Irrigation and Drainage
Table 3. Rice Growing Per Hectare Cost of Production



ANNEXES (Continued)
Table 4. Per Hectare Return for the Different Crope with
the Project
Table 5. Farm Budget
5. Description of Civil Works
6. Experimental Station for Off-Season Crops
7. Water Supply and Monthly Irrigation Requirements in m3/sec
8. Construction Schedule
9. Cost Estimates
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Economic Rate of Return
MAPS
1.   Project Location
2.   Project Layout



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report contains the appraisal of an irrigation and
drainage project designed to further develop high quality rice produc-
tion in the Malagasy Republic. Agriculture plays an important role in
the economy of the Malagasy Republic, accounting for 34% of the GNP.
Rice, the staple food of the population, is one of the agricultural ex-
porte of the island, and, in most areas, muet be irrigated to ensure a
dependable, high yielding crop. The proposed Lake Alaotra Irrigation
Project would be the first Bank/IDA financed irrigation project in the
country and is located in the central part of the island in an area
known for its export quality rice crops. The project would improve
existing irrigation facilities and expand the area available for year-
round production.  The project includes:
(a) rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage netvorks
on 4,000 ha;
(b) construction of the irrigation and drainage networks
on some 6,000 ha of marshland; and
(c) construction of only drainage works on 2,000 ha of
marshland.
The project would also include all on-farm development works, as vell as
setting up the organizational framework for extension services and farm
supply and marketing services. An agricultural experimentation station
would also be established. In addition to the 1,200 families already on
project lands, some 1,700 farming families would be given land, each
family working a plot of 4 ha.
ii.       Overall investment costs of the project are estimated to be
US$8.2 million. Of this, about US$5.3 million vould be spent on civil
engineering works, about US$1.2 million on on-farm development, US$0.6
million on O&M equipment, and about US$1.1 million on experiments and
initial cost of extension services.
iii.      An IDA credit of US$5.0 million has been requested.  The credit
would cover the estimated foreign exchange and 50% of local currency
requirements for civil works totaling US$4.2 million, including contin-
gencies. It would also finance the foreign exchange cost of equipment
for operation and maintenance of the irrigation system in the amount of
US$0.6 million and 90% of the cost of experiments in crop diversification
and studies amounting to US$0.2 million.



- ii -
iv.       The Rural Engineering Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
(RES), with the help of a French consulting firm, SOGREAH, would design
the civil works and would supervise construction by contractors. The
civil works contract, covering works in three construction seasons, would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Societe
Malgache d'Amenagement du Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC), wîth the help of the
French consulting firm, SCET-COOP, would carry out on-farm development
works and would supply extension services over a 15-year development
period. Coordination between the RES and SOMALAC in carrying out the
works would be assured. Experiments in crop diversification would be
carried out by SOMALAC and supervised by the Institut de Recherche
Agronomique Malgache (IRAM). A study to investigate the possibilities
of permanent settlement in the project area will be carried out by RES.
v.        At full agricultural development of the project lands, the
annual incremental gross value of production would be about FMG 426.2
million (US$1.5 million). This includes the value of the rice crop and
dry season crops of forage and grain. Sensitivity tests have shown that
the economic rate of return would fall within a range of 9 to 12%. The
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.0 million equivalent. The
borrower would be the Government of the Malagasy Republic.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Goverument of the Malagasy Republic has requested an IDA
credit of US$5.0 million to assist in financing the Lake Alaotra Irriga-
tion Project. The project would rehabilitate the irrigation and drainage
network on 4,000 ha of presently irrigated land; construct irrigation,
drainage and farm road networks on some 6,000 ha of marshland; and con-
struct the drainage network on 2,000 ha along the eastern boundary of
the project area. The project vould include all on-farm developuent work,
the establishment of an agricultural extension service and studies and
experiments in crop diversification.
1.02      The Societe Malgache d'Amenagement du Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC), an
autonomous organization, has been developing various irrigation projects
to the north and southeast of the project area along the edge of Lake
Alaotra marshes. These projecta cover a total area of some 19,000 ha and
are considered the best irrigation development projects constructed in the
country during the last decade. On-farm development wvorks and resettle-
ment of the farming population have been assigned to SOMALAC, vhich has
devised efficient techniques adapted to the conditions of the area.
1.03      This report is based on feasibility studies prepared under the
guidance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program by the French consulting firm,
SOGREAH, on contract to the Rural Engineering Services (RES) of the Minis-
try of Agriculture. The project was appraised in October 1969 by Messrs.
G. J. Tibor, J. Marinet, A. Otten and D. S. Mitchell (consultant). This
report was prepared by Messrs. G. J. Tibor, J. Marinet and A. Otten.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The island of Madagascar, since 1960 the independent Malagasy
Republic, has a total land area of 594,000 km2, or somewhat larger than
France, and a population of 6.7 million, which is growing at an annual
rate of more than 2.2%. Only 2.8 million ha, or less than 5Z of the
total land area, in cultivated in the more accessible parts of the coun-
try, mostly in valleys along the east coast and on the central plateau;
the remaining land is largely covered with forests, mountain ranges and
eroded hills. Potentially productive areas exist along the western
coastal plains but access to them is difficult and their population den-
uity is very low.



- 2 -
2.02      Agriculture and forestry are the mainstays of the Malagasy econ-
omy. Agriculture provides the livelihood for more than 80% of the popu-
ltion, but, as productivity is very low, it accounts for only one-third
of the gross domestic product (GDP). The subsistence sector produces
60% of total agricultural output and over half of it is in paddy, the
man food crop; other important iteme are manioc and potatoes.
2.03      A large part of the population is of Asian descent, and domestie
rice conhumption, averaging about 120 kg per capita per annum, is quite
high in comparison vith other African countries. Paddy invariably
occupies the best lands and practically ail of lt is irrigated by saall
and medïum size run-of-the-river systems. Rice production has grown over
the last decade roughly în lîne vith the increase in population.
2.04      Agricultural products make up about 85% of total exports.  De-
clining vorld market prices for some of the leading export commodities
have limited the growth of export earnings from agricultural products
over the 1965-69 period to 26Z, although exported quantities have almost
doubled over the same period. Traditional rice exports, averaging about
12,000 tous per annum before 1964, have grovn to about 50,000 tons an-
nually during recent years. Most of this growth has taken place in the
better quality varieties which fînd increasing acceptance in nearby
markets. The future growth of rice exports vill, however, be restrained
by expanding domestic requirements.
2.05      With less than satisfactory overall performance in agriculture,
economic growth has alowed down and increases in GNP over the last 10
years have barely managed to compensate for the increase in population;
per capita GNP has remained stagnant at US$100 per annum.
2.06      Under the Firat Five-Year Plan (1964-68), priority vas accorded
to developaent of infrastructure and transport, to which over 50% of the
capital budget of FMG 151 billion (including both private and public
investment) vas devoted, whereas only one-fifth was earmarked for the
agricultural sector.  This development plan was unrealistic as a too
optimistic viev vas taken on the level of private investments over which
the Government had very little control  It is estimated that, at the end
of the plan period, only some 60% of overall planned investments will
have been realized. Tentative investment targets under the Second Five-
Year Plan, nov under consideration by the Government, have been scaled
down to FMG 120 billion but more emphasis has been given to the agri-
cultural sector vith a share of about one-third of total investments.
2.07      An increase in rice production, sufficient to satisfy growing
demand in the local market and increased exports, is one of the major
objectives of the agricultural development plan. The planned increase
in production will have to come from new irrigation projecta and through
intensification of existing schemes.



2.08      The European Development Fund (FED) and the French Aid and Cooper-
ation Fund (FAC) will continue to be the main sources of external financing.
FAC finances most of the project preparation studies carried out by consult-
ing firma and pays part of the salaries of expatriate personnel assisting in
the implementation of projecto.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area, known as Perimetre de Colonization (PC) 23,
îs located in the southwest quadrant of the Lake Alaotra depression (Map
1). This depression is in the central plateau of Madagascar. At an
elevation of +760 m, it is protected on all aides by mountain chains,
limiting the degree of variation in temperatures. Some 100,000 ha of
the depression are suitable for growing rice. To improve the natural
conditions, irrigation projects were started after World War II and today
an area of some 50,000 ha is cultivated, 30,000 ha of which are irrigated.
3.02      PC 23 was first conceived in 1956 as a run-of-the-river acheme,
based on the flows of the Sahabe and Sahamilahy rivera.  While some of
the major project works were completed further progresa has been interrupt-
ed owing to the unsettled conditions following independence in 1960.
Climate
3.03      Average rainfall in the project area is about 1,000 mm, 95% of
which falls in the hot season, October to April. The start of the rice-
growing season is sometimes delayed from November until December or even
January, due to a late starting time of the rains. This does not affect
rice yields but it might shorten the period available for growing off-
season crops. Additional data on rainfall, temperature and average hours
of sunahine are given in Annex 1.
Topography and Soils
3.04      The depression is generally a flat area, slightly sloping from
the north and vest towards the lake in the east. At the end of the dry
season, the water level in the lake is usually at +750 m with depths be-
tween 1 to 2 m. During the winter floodt, the water level rises 2 to 3 m
(maximum recorded depth was 5 m), flooding some of the surrounding svamps.
Peak flooda occasionally have reached the eastern boundary of PC 23 but
have not gone beyond it.
3.05      Highly productive peat soils occur throughout most of PC 23.
With drains already in existence during the last 15 years, groundvater
tables have been lowered allowing uncontrolled burning of peat in the
upper part of the area. The original peat layers are atill more or le88



- 4 -
intact, however, except for some 4,000 ha where the organic soil layer has
been reduced from 150 cm to about 50 cm. Irrigation tests will be conducted
cr about 800 ha of mineral soils before their inclusion in the proposed ir-
rigation development (Annex 2).
Pcpulation
3.06      Compared to surrounding areas, the Lake Alaotra depression is
vell populated vith an average population density of 84 persons per km2.
During the last decade, average annual population growth was approximately
3.4%, one-third of whîch was caused by migration into the lake area.
Farm Size end Land Tenure
3.07      To atiaulate rice production, uncultivated marshland was dis-
tributed by the administration to French and Malagasy farmers between
1945 and 1950. Some 10 years after the start of this colonization, how-
ever, more than half of the farmers had no property rights or cultivated
very saall farma and about 80Z of the drained land belonged to less than
10% of the population. In 1961 the Government intervened by setting up
the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale (AMVR), xwhich legally enabled compulsory
land distribution on 30,000 ha. SOMALAC was created to implement this
land reform. Most of the large estateowners have since sold their land
to SOMALAC and in the project area only one estate of 900 ha is still
operating.
Irrigation Facilities and DrainaRe
3.08      Some 19,000 ha of land affected by the AMVR are irrigated to
date and under SOMALAC management. In PC 23, 4,000 ha have been reclalmed
and are irrigated from the Sahabe River; its trîbutary, the Sahamilahy;
and three smaller streams. Drainage canals and dikes have been built to pro-
tect the reclaimed area from flooding in the rainy season.
Development Works and Supporting Services
3.09      Once the land is purchased and an irrigation and drainage system
constructed, SOMALAC redistributes the land in plots of 4 to 5 ha and
carries out on-farm development works.  The plots are then leased to farmers
under a contract by which the farmer has to pay annual charges during a
15-year period, after which he becomes the owner. During this period,
SOMALAC is responsible for the provision of extension services, distribu-
tion of farm credits and collection of repayments. Rural Cooperative
Associations are organized to gradually take over responsibilities. These
techniques, used end perfected by SOMALAC since 1962, vould also be adopted
in the development of PC 23. SOMALAC has a contract with a French con-
sulting firm, SCET-COOP, which undertakes all the planning work and also
provides key personnel for its operations. The structure, procedures
and operations of SOMALAC are outlined in detail in Annex 3.



- 5 -
3.10      Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation and drainage
systems is the responsibility of RES, a government agency under the Ministry
of Agriculture. The quality of maintenance in the presently irrigated areas
is unsatisfactory. Under existing legal provisions, RES is entitled to a
service charge of up to FMG 2,500 per ha. At present no charges are collect-
ed from farmers and RES is dependent on annual budget appropriations for
maintenance work. Budget appropriations have fallen short of needs and, as
a result, available equîpment is insufficient or ill-suited for circumatances
in the area and RES is under-staffed. In order to bring maintenance work up
to acceptable standards, the Governient has decided to merge RES and SOMALAC
workshops and transfer responsibility for maintenance work to SOMALAC.
3.11      Agricultural research in the lake area is provided by the agri-
cultural station north of Ambatondrazaka. This station, in operation
since 1934, developed the rice varieties presently grown around the lake.
It has also developed short-cycle, high-yielding rice varieties and is
determining the mont suitable forage crops to be raised during the dry
season.
Agricultural Production
3.12      Paddy production in the entire lake area increased to 120,000
tons in 1969. The main variety (70% of production) is Makalloka 34. This
is a variety of export quality with a growth period from November to May/
June (203-210 days). Yields in existing SOMALAC developments are 3.5 to
5.0 tons of paddy per ha. On the presently irrigated area of PC 23, yields
are low, lesa than 1.5 tons of paddy per ha, because of poor drainage and
an unreliable water supply (Annex 4).
Transportation and Marketing
3.13      Road and railway systems are adequate to meet transportation re-
quirements from the lake area to the main markets of Tananarive and Tamatave.
A credit to improve the port of Tamatave has recently been approved by IDA.
Construction of new roads vithin PC 23 (40 km of access roads and 95 km of
tracks) is part of the proposed project.
3.14      The Office of Commercialization and Stabilization (BCSR) is re-
sponsible for rice-marketing operations in the Lake Alaotra plain. It
purchases all marketed paddy at fixed prices established each year and
allows a fixed fee for milling operations. Paddy la milled in 11 private
rice mille around the lake with a milling capacity of 160,000 tons and
a stocking capacity of 100,000 tons, which adequately covers the needs
of the region. BCSR determines quantities to be shipped to domestic
markets or to be exported. It is financed in its operations by *hort-
term credits from the Development Bank of Madagascar (BNM). BCSR is
vell managed and is an effective organization.



- 6 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The project proposed for IDA financing covers an area of 12,000
ha. Project works are summarized below and described in detail in Annex
5. They vould consist of:
(a) the rehabilitation of Pi canal;
(b) the rehabilitation of the low level canal;
(c) the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage networks
on 4,000 ha presently irrigated;
(d) the construction of irrigation, drainage and road networks
on 6,000 ha of newly reclaimed areas;
(e) the construction of a drainage network on 2,000 ha that
would be dry-farmed;
(f) the construction of the main drainage outfall towards the
lake;
(g)  on-farm development works on 1,000 ha presently irrigated
and on 6,000 ha of the newly reclaimed areas; and
(h) experiments in crop diversification for a period of 5 years
and the initiation of a rural development study.
The project would alseo include procurement of O&M equipment and agri-
cultural extension services for the initial build-up period of 5 years.
B. Project Works
4.02      Rehabilitation of the Pl Canal.  The proposed rehabilitation
works would include partial canal lining and construction of appropriate
control structures to reduce large conveyance and distribution losses.
Sand traps would also be built at the confluence of the rivers and the
canal to improve silting conditions. Reconstruction work would be done
on the diversion structure at the head of the canal.
4.03      Rehabilitation of the Low Level Canal.  Proposed works would
include construction of a diversion veir on the Sahabe River, a new con-
trol structure at the head of the low level canal, and a connecting canal
between the weir and the control structure. The existing canal section
would be enlarged and expanded.



- 7 -
4.04      Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation and Drainage Networks.
Rehabilitation works would include repaire to existing drainage and irri-
tation canals; excavation of new canals to enable the separation of the
irrigation network from the drainage system; construction of turnouts with
regulating gates as well as five drainage control structures; and repair of
existing farm roads.
4.05      Construction of Irrigation, Drainage and Road Networks in Newly
Reclaimed Areas. Works would include excavation of existing main drains;
construction of secondary drains; construction of secondary and tertiary
irrigation canals including turnouts; and construction of all control struc-
tures, farm roads and bridges required.
4.06      Construction of Drainage Network on 2,000 Ha.  Owing to insuf-
ficient water supplies, only the drainage network would be constructed
on 2,000 ha along the eastern boundary of PC 23, enabling a rainfed rice
crop to be grown in this area.
4.07      Construction of Main Drainage Outfail Towards the Lake.  The
proposed drain would evacuate water from PC 23 at a rate of 60 to 70 m3/sec
to complete drainage within 5 or 6 days after a winter flood. The drain would
also have to effect the drainage of the peat soils in the lowest parts of PC
23 during the dry season without an excessive lowering of groundwater levels
in the marshes to the east of PC 23. The consultants' preliminary design has
been coordinated with the findings of an investigation carried out by GRONTMIJ
(Dutch consultants) for a polder scheme in the marshlands between PC 23 and
the lake.
4.08      On-farm Development Work.  On-farm development work would have
to be carried out on about 7,000 ha. The work is spread over 4 years, as
it would be done in two stages with a period of 2 to 3 years of rainfed
rice cultivation in between to allow for a sufficient subsidence of the
top soil layers.
4.09      Present on-farm development work in peat areas is unsatisfactory.
Groundwater tables cannot be kept at a high enough level to prevent peat
layers from being destroyed when vegetation is burned. Vegetation should
be cut and plowed under. If burning is unavoidable, the drainage system
should be in place, with sufficient water quantities available to ensure
a sufficiently high water table. Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tations that existing procedures for on-farm development works in the peat
zones will be modified so as to safeguard existing peat horizons.
4.10      Experiments in Crop Diversification.  A 65-ha experimental farm
on peaty soils would be set up near drain D4 in the northern part of PC
23. The necessary irrigation, drainage and road networks would be de-
veloped as soon as possible after the IDA credit became effective. The
cost of these infrastructural works for the farm are part of the civil
engineering budget under the project.



- 8 -
4.11      During the 5-year experimental period, forage crops and indus-
trial crops would be grown in the dry season after rice had been harvested
and a herd of 200 cattle would be kept to demonstrate the possibilities of
stock-fattening (Annex 6). The experimenta would contribute to the develop-
ment of off-season crops not only for the project but also in other irrigated
areas around the lake. A rural development study would be initiated to ex-
amine the possibilities for permanent settlemeent in PC 23.
C.  Water Supply and Demand
4.12      Water for PC 23 would be supplied from five relatively amall
rivera - the Sahabe, Sahamilahy, Sahamena, Behengitra and Bemarenina -
which enter the project area along its western boundary. Two of the rivers,
the Sahabe and the Sahamilahy, account for 80% of the supply. Their water-
sheds are mostly mountainous and, eiccept for a few farms in the upper basins
of the Sahabe and Sahamilahy, uncultivated. None of the water users has
legal rights to the vater. RES is responsible for the equitable distribu-
tion of the available river flows among the various consumers. As any ad-
ditional irrigation works upstream from the project intakes would endanger
the supply to the project, assurances have been obtained from Government
that no further irrigation development will be permitted upstream of PC 23
without prior consultation with IDA.
4.13      Records have been kept of rainfall in and around PC 23 for 21
years. Flow measurements, however, have been recorded for a period of
only 7 years for the two larger rivers and 5 years for the three amaller
ones. Because actual flow measurements were made for such a relatively
short time, reliability of data is greatly reduced, especially for the
critical 4-month period at the start of the irrigation season. Water
demand and supply calculations (Annex 7) have therefore been based on
very conservative assumptions, at least until sufficient additional data
on river flows have been collected.
4.14      Minimum dry season flows in the Sahabe and Sahamilahy are
substantial (6.0 m3/sec) and apparently come from a large aquifer that
drains into the rivera along the western foothills.  Flows are always in
excess of irrigation requirements for the proposed off-season crops.
D. Irrigation Schedule
4.15      The proposed irrigation achedule (Annex 7) is sufficiently flexi-
ble to allow for an occasional delay in the start of the rainy season.
The achedule allows for a pre-irrigation cycle in September on half of
PC 23, which vill raise groundwater levels to 25 to 30 cm below surface.
The control structures necessary for this operation are part of the drainage
works. Such a closely regulated drainage system, together with properly
leveled contour basins for the rïce paddies, will reduce field irrigation
and conveyance losses to 35% to 40% of the gross vater quantity supplied to
the area.  The individual farmers vill be supplied with vater quantities
measured at the block turnout, on a predetermined rotation achedule.



- 9 -
E. Engineering Design and Construction Schedule
4.16      Project planning has been completed to feasibility stage.  The
initial plans were made on the basis of an old topographical survey prepared
immediately after the area was drained but when the uppermost layers of vege-
tation were still in place. These layers have now been reduced through un-
controlled burning and decomposition. In most of the area, soil elevations
have sufficiently stabilized to enable project design. A new 1:5,000 topo-
graphical map and a soil classification map have been prepared on the basis
of which the final project layout has been made.
4.17      Design for the peat soils will be such that groundwater levela
in the peat zones can be kept at 20 to 30 cm below surface during all
phases of the agricultural cycle. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that the design of the irrigation and drainage networks will
be in accordance with accepted engineering practices for peat soils.
4.18      The detailed construction achedule is given in Annex 8.  It is
based on the assumption that on-farm development vorks vould be implemented
in step with civil engineering vorks. All work on the main irrigation ca-
nals and drains, together vith the secondary drains in the peat soils, would
have to be completed, however, during the firet 2 years to enable control of
the groundwater table. On-farm development vorks are scheduled to be com-
pleted in 1975.
F. Cost Estimates
4.19      Cost estimates for project vorks are as follows:
FMG (millions)            US$ (thousands)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Civil works                 353.1   625.8   978.9    1,270   2,250   3,520
Engineering, supervision    52.8   197.2   160.0         190     386      576
On-farm development vorks  116.7   195.4   282.1         420     595   1,015
Operation and maintenance
equipment                  60.0   164.0   224.0        215     590      805
Extension services          165.3    61.0   226.3        594     220      814
Experimental programs and
studies                    26.3    58.9    85.2         95     211      306
Contingencies               123.9   207.6   331.5        446     747   1,193
Total Project Cost          898.1 1,389.9 2,288.0    3,230   4,999   8,229
Cost estimates for civil works are based on detailed construction quantities
and unit rates obtained under contracta for similar works in the Lake Alaotra
area during 1968. Unit rates have been adjusted for the effects of a cur-
rency devaluation in 1969.  Cost estimates for on-farm development vorks are
based on unit rates for work carried out during 1969. Contingencies of 10%



- 10 -
have been allowed for price increases on equipment and further allow-
ances ranging from 10% to 25% have been made for unforeseen expenditure
on all civil works items and on-farm development items. Contingencies of
35% have been allowed on the main drainage outfall as the actual length
of the drain is not yet known and will depend on the lowering of ground-
water tables as work progresses (Annex 9).
G. Financing
4.20      Financing for the project would be provided from the IDA credit,
from a loan contribution made by the Malagasy National Development Bank
(BNM) and from the development budget of the Malagasy Government.  The
financing plan proposed for the project would be as follows:
Z of
Foreign
FMG (millions)           US$ (millions)      Z of   Exchange
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Total    Cost
Total          898.1 1,389.9 2,288.0   3.2    5.0        8.2    100      100
IDA credit     253.6 1,131.6 1,385.2   0.9    4.1        5.0     61       82
BNM contri-
bution         96.0    98.5   194.5   0.3    0.4        0.7      8        8
Government
contribution  548.5   159.8   708.3   2.0    0.5        2.5     31       10
of which FAC
financed      (34.0) (159.8) (193.8) (0.2)  (0.5)   (0.7)    (6)    (10)
4.21      The proposed IDA credit, amounting to US$5.0 million (FMG 1,385.2
million equivalent), would cover 61% of total project expenditures. It
would finance the foreign exchange cost of civil works, operation and main-
tenance equipment and experiments in crop diversification, totaling about
US$4.1 million, or 82% of foreign exchange requirements. The remaining for-
eign exchange requirements would be covered by the BNM contribution and
through a FAC grant (paras 4.22 and 4.23).  In addition to the above, 18%
of the proposed credit (US$0.9 million) would finance half of the local cost
of civil works (28% of total local currency expenditure on the project).
4.22      BNM would lend US$0.7 million (FMG 194.5 million equivalent) to
SOMALAC out of its own funds.  This amount would represent about 8% of
total project cost.  The BNM contribution would be made in accordance with
established practice in the area. It would consist of a medium-term loan
(5 years) at 6% interest to finance the purchase of equipment, including
spare parts for on-farm development works (US$0.4 million), and a long-term
loan (15 years) at 6% interest, mainly for the financing of local currency
expenditures for on-farm development (US$0.3 million). BNM loans would
require foreign exchange outlays totaling about US$0.4 million, or 8% of



- il -
total foreign exchange requirements, mostly for the purchase of equipment
and fuel. The loans would be financed largely through BNM's existing dis-
count facilities with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique in
Paris. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that BNM funds
will be made available as required.
4.23      The Government would contribute the remainder of the project
cost, amounting to US$2.5 million (FMG 708.3 million equivalent). Part of
the Government contribution would be covered by a grant from FAC to the
Government. FAC has financed expatriate technical assistance to SOMALAC
for planning and executing on-farm development works and for extension ser-
vices in the past and would continue to do so under the proposed project.
The FAC grant, in the amount of US$0.7 million (FMG 193.8 million equival-
ent), would cover all foreign exchange coste in the Government contribution
to project cost, representing 10% of total foreign exchange requirements
and a small part of local currency expenditure directly related to the em-
ployment by SOMALAC of foreign personnel. The FAC grant is usually nego-
tiated with the Government under a 3-year contract. Assurances have been
obtained from FAC that the agreement to be concluded between the Govern-
ment and FAC for the 1971-73 period will provide sufficient funds to
SOMALAC to cover the expatriate assistance for SOMALAC's on-farm develop-
ment works and extension services, including those to be provided in the
project area. The remainder of the Government contribution, amounting to
US$1.8 million (FMG 514.5 million equivalent), would be forthcoming from
annual budget appropriations. While it is anticipated that FAC vould con-
tinue to provide funds to SOMALAC for expatriate assistance beyond 1973,
assurances have been obtained from the Government during negotiations that
SOMALAC will maintain a level and organization of extension services sa-
tisfactory to IDA for not less than 15 years and that it vill itself pro-
vide the necessary extension services thereafter.
4.24      Expenditures would occur during a period of 5 years, as shown
below:
FMG (millions)
1971      1972       1973      1974      1975       Total
IDA credit          662.1     527.5      181.1       9.0        5.5     1,385.2
BNM loans             -        58.5       56.7      56.5       22.8       194.5
Government
contribution     182.7      196.1     120.1      101.3     108.1        708.3
of which FAC
financed          (24.3)    (42.5)    (48.5)    (42.7)    (35.8)       (193.8)
Total               844.8     782.1     357.9      166.8     136.4      2,288.0
Cumulative          844.8   1,626.9   1,984.8   2,151.6   2,288.0
----------------US$ equivalent (millions)-
Cumulative            3.0       5.8        7.1       7.7        8.2



- 12 -
H. Procurement
4.25      Tendering for civil works, including the construction of the ex-
perimental station buildings, would be done by RES and carried out on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's normal
procedures. Tendering for operation and maintenance equipment, including
equipment for the experimental station and for excavation and maintenance
of the main drain, would follow the same procedures. Excavation equipment
for the main drain would be leased by SOMALAC to the contractor against an
hourly fee. The lease would include the operators and the necessary main-
tenance services. Tender documents would be sent to IDA for review 1 month
before the date of tendering. Assurances to this effect have been obtained
during negotiations.
I. Diabursement
4.26      The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) 84% of the cost of civil works, amounting to US$3.4
million, including engineering and supervision of
civil works, against documents certified by SOGREAH;
(b) 100% of the estimated C.I.F. cost of operation and
maintenance equipment procured from abroad, totaling
US$0.6 million;
(c) 90% of the cost of the experimental program and
studies of US$0.2 million, against documents cer-
tified by SCET-COOP; and
(d) an unallocated amount of US$0.8 million representing
contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as required.
Savings made on the credit as a whole would be canceled. An estimated
schedule of disbursements has been given in Annex 10.
J. Auditing of Accounts
4.27      RES, as part of the Ministry of Agriculture, is subject to
routine annual audits by the office of the Accountant-General, reporting
directly to the President, in accordance with procedures that apply to all
Government ministries. SOMALAC accounts are audited annually by an adminis-
trator nominated by its Board of Governors and acceptable to the Government.
In addition, SOMALAC accounts are subject teo continuing scrutiny by financ-
lal controllers from BNM and from the office of the Accountant-General.
These arrangementes are satifactory, and assurances have been obtained dur-
ing negotiations that separate project accounts vill be establ.shed by RES
and SONALAC and that copies of RES and SOMALAC project accountu and of the
annual audits of SOMALAC as an entity will be sent to the Association vith-



- 13 -
in 6 months of the close of each fiscal year until the end of the disburse-
ment period.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination and Supervision
5.01      Of the various agencies concerned with implementation of the
project, RES and SOMALAC would play the major roles. Both organizations,
aided by expatriate experts, have worked vell on similar projects in the
Lake Alaotra area in the past and their technical competence is not dis-
puted.  The organizational set-up of RES as a Government agency and SOMALAC
as an autonomous corporation, however, would require overall project coor-
dination, as delays in completion of the irrigation system might interfere
with SOMALAC's work schedule. It is, therefore, a condition of effective-
ness of the credit that Government has established a project coordinating
committee, with representatives from the Central Development Service in
the Ministry of Agriculture, RES and SOMALAC. The committee would monitor
progress of the execution of project works and report problems directly to
the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister, acting as representative of
the Government, would then take appropriate action.
Civil Works
5.02      RES has only a small number of qualified Malagasy engineers on
its staff and employs nine expatriate engineers, paid in part by FAC. Even
so, all major development projects are assigned out to a number of local and
expatriate consulting firms operating on the island. The PC 23 civil works
have been assigned to SOGREAH, which would be responsible for planning and
design and for both general and on-site supervision during construction.
SOGREAH would employ its own staff of expatriate and local engineers for
this work, the cost of which is included in the project. RES staff would
deal mainly with payments to contractors and administrative control.
On-farm Development Works
5.03      SOMALAC is organized in three divisions, plus a centralized equip-
ment pool, to carry out on-farm development. Two of the three divisions
and the equipment pool are headed by expatriate engineers, with an adequate
staff of experienced local personnel at their disposal.
Since 1961, SOMALAC has settled 2,600 families on some 14,000 ha.
An average on-farm development rate of more than 3,000 ha per year vas
achieved in 1968. The on-farm development schedule for the project area,
together with other works to be carried out by SOMALAC during the same
period, does not go beyond the annual development rate achieved in 1968 and
additional staffing would not be necessary.



- 14 -
Extension Services
5.04      The extension service organization for PC 23 would be patterned
after that used in other SOMALAC areas (Annex 3). The area of PC 23 would
be divided into eight extension zones of about 1,500 ha each; two already
exist and six others would be created as 'and is leased to farmers. The
main problem wiil be staffing the key posts of senior officers in charge
of zones and the post of Project Administrator. In the nine zones already
Ln existence în the other SOMALAC areas, four are still headed directly by
expatriates and five are supervised by experienced expatriate administrators.
Both Government and SOMALAC are anxious to replace expatriate staff with lo-
cal personnel, but efforts have been hampered, partly because it is difficult
to find sufficiently qualified people and partly because salary scales are
those prevailing in Government rather than in private enterprise.
5.05      In PC 23, the replacement of expatriate key personnel in the ex-
tension service would be carried out expeditiously, but without endangering
the quality of work performed. The Government has agreed during negotia-
tions that for the eight zones four expatriate senior officers will be em-
ployed. Three expatriates will be in charge of zones seconded by Malagasy
assistants, and will be replaced by Malagasy officers after 3 years. An ex-
patriate project administrator in charge of the entire area would stay for
at least 6 years.  Assurances have also been obtained from the Government
that replacements of key personnel will be made when justified by the quali-
ty and performance of individual staff and in consultation with the Associa-
tion. To achieve the desired rate of replacement, assurances have been ob-
tained that the Government will enable SOMALAC to employ competent Malagasy
personnel for key posts at higher salaries or with more fringe benefits than
those presently being offered. Increases in salaries for such personnel
have been included in cost estimates for extension services.
Experiments in Crop Diversification
5.06      One expatriate agronomist from SOMALAC would manage the experimen-
tal farm, aided by 2 technical assistants and 12 agents.  The experimental
farm would have its own equipment, which would be maintained by the SOMALAC
equipment pool. The 3 ha devoted to IRAM would be headed by a technical
agent. Eighteen workers would help him carry out the established program,
which is under the permanent technical control of IRAM in Tananarive.
AMricultural Credit
5.07      Credit requirements of SOMALAC and farmers in SOMALAC areas have,
in the past, been fully covered by BNM. Created in 1963 and owned princi-
pally by the Government, the bank is by far the most important lender to
agriculture in Madagascar; close to 60% of its outstanding loans are in the
agricultural sector. Farmers' credit requirements in PC 23 are estimated
to rise to about FMG 60 million annually, which is well within BNM's capacity
to handle.



- 15 -
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      According to present practice, maintenance of the main irrigation
and drainage network is the responsibility of RES, while maintenance of the
networks within an irrigation unit is done by SOMALAC and the farmers orga-
nized under its extension service. To avoid duplication in setting up work-
shops and training courses for operators and mechanics, the Qovernment has
decided to concentrate all project O and M in one organization. Since
SOMALAC has all the necessary facilities in the area, it would be made re-
sponsible for such work during the 15-year contract period. At the end of
this period, O&M would become an RES responsibility, with the Rural Cooper-
ative Association taking over actual work within the irrigation units. As-
surances to this effect have been obtained from Government during negotia-
tions. Assurances have also been obtained that all O&M equipment bought
under the IDA credit will be used exclusively for PC 23.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
5.09      According to a recent study, an adequate level of O&M would cost
some FMG 2,250 (US$8.1) per ha per year. Total annual O&M costs for the
project area, based on this figure, are estimated at FMG 22.5 million
(US$81,000).
Recovery of Costs
5.10      Total direct investments in the project and local costs of the
extension service serving newly arrived farmers would amount to FMG 2,512.4
million (US$9 million).  In addition, operation and maintenance costs for
the main canal and drainage system would reach about FMG 22.5 million per
annum after completion of the project in the 5th year or an aggregate sum
of FMG 900 million over the 40-year project life.
5.11      Farmers chosen for a SOMALAC development project sign a lease-
purchase contract, which sets out annual repayment charges over the first
15 years (para 3.09 and Annex 3). Annual collections on the repayment
charge from new farmers in PC 23 would amount to FMG 67.8 million per annum,
totaling about FMG 1,017.2 million (US$3.7 million) over the 15-year period.
Future collections on the basis of these existing arrangements would cover
project costs only partially, as shown in the table below:



- 16 -
Annual Project Cost                                     Annual Project Revenue
 - - - - - - - - - - - During First 15 Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
FMG                                 FMG
Million                              Million
O&M Costs                     22.5         Repayment charge         67.8
Extension service
(local cost)               39.7
Amortization of
on-farm development works  27.8
90.0                                  67.8
- - - - - - - - - - - - - During Next 25 Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O&M Costs                     22.5
Amortization of civil works 60.0
82.5
5.12      Present arrangements for collecting charges from farmers provide
for recovery of the full cost of on-farm development works, including in-
terest, and all local cost of extension services over a 15-year period.
Existing agreements w±th farmers do not stipulate any charges for project
maintenance or recovery of capital.  The existing system burdens the farmer
heavily during the first 15 years, taking about 80% of his incremental in-
come in the first year and gradually dropping to about 30% in the 15th year.
These arrangements have been incorporated in the agreements concluded with
farmers on similar SOMALAC schemes in the Lake Alaotra plain (Annex 3).
5.13      To ensure that sufficient funds would be available for proper
maintenance, the following assurances have been obtained during negotiations:
(1) during the initial 15 years a portion of the repayment charge will be
set aside to cover the cost of such services; with maintenance cost esti-
mated at FMG 2,250 per ha per year, an annual amount of FMG 20.0 million
would be needed and Government would contribute the equivalent of this
amount to SOMALAC to maintain the level of extension services as required;
(2) from the 16th year onward, a fee adequate to cover satisfactory main-
tenance work, presently estimated at FMG 2,250 per ha per year, will be in-
troduced to be paid directly by the farmer; and (3) a private concession in
the project area, not under SOMALAC but benefiting from an improved vater
supply, will pay such a fee from the beginning.
5.14      Total project revenue, taking into account the Government con-
tribution to extension services and including the proposed maintenance
fees, would not provide for a recovery of capital invested in civil works.



- 17 -
To recover the entire investment, excluding interest, a betterment levy
would have to be imposed after reaching full development, of about FMG 6,250
per ha, amounting to FMG 60.0 million per annum. Such a levy would more
than double total charges after full development as shown below:
Annual Project Cost                                      Annual Proiect Revenue
- - - - - - - - - - - - - During First 15 Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
FMG                                    FMG
Million                                Million
O&M Costs                        22.5      Repayment charge             67.8
Extension Service (local cost) 39.7        Maintenance fee
Amortization of on-farm                       (private concession)       2.2
development works              27.8      Government contribution    20.0
90.0                                   90.0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - During Next 25 Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O&M Costs                        22.5      Maintenance fee              22.5
Amortization of civil                      Betterment levy              60.0
works (excluding interest)   60.0
82.5                                   82.5
5.15      Charges levied after full development, excluding the betterment
levy but including a contribution to the farmers' cooperative and including
taxes, would be equal to about 19% of lncremental cash income (para 6.07).
The betterment levy would increase these charges to about 37% of incremen-
tal cash income. In view of the fact that farma in the project area would
be only small holdings and farmers would repay about 50% of the local cost
of extension services for the project, a recovery of somewhat less than the
full investment cost including lnterest seema justified. Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that during the initial 15 years the Gov-
ernment will continue to levy existing charges modified as set out in para-
graph 5.13 and thereafter introduce a betterment levy in addition to the
maintenance fee to be paid by the project beneficiaries at least sufficient
to recover all the monies invested without interest.



- 18 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      Rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage systems and
construction of new works would result in an assured water supply during
the critical rice-sowing and transplanting season (October-January). It
would increase the irrigated area from 4,000 ha to about 10,000 ha and
would enable rainfed cultivation on an additional 2,000 ha. Rice, the
only crop grown at present, vould continue to be the main crop. Exper-
iments presently under way to develop suitable off-season crops, mainly
forage, would be greatly extended under the project and would result in
increased fodder cultivation for the fattening of cattle.
6.02      Ten years after completion of the project, it is expected that
paddy yields will have increased from 1.4 tons without the project to 3.5
tons per ha with the project, resulting in a gross production increase of
slightly under 26,000 tons. These yields have already been obtained and,
in some instances, surpassed on other SOMALAC schemes in the Lake Alaotra
plain after shorter development periode. It is also expected that, with
vigorous promotion by the extension service, about 50% of the area would
be cultivated with off-season crops. Annex 4 provides details of cropping
patterns, yields, production costS and returns.
Market Prospects
6.03      About 70% of the projected gross value of production would come
from paddy and about 30% would come from wheat, soja beans and fodder crope
(maize, sorghum and soja). Wheat and beans are presently imported and mar-
keted production from the project would serve as a substitute for imports.
Part of the forage produced would be used by the farmer to feed his work
animals but most of it would be sold to stock fatteners in the Lake Alaotra
plain. Stock fattening is already carried out on a small scale by private
farmers and has been markedly successful. Increased fodder supplies from
the project and from other SOMALAC areas would, however, entail a consider-
able expansion of cattle fattening. The economic and commercial aspects of
such large-scale operations need to be more closely examined and would be
a part of the experimental station activities (Annex 6).
6.04      Domestic demand for rice in Madagascar has grown in line wïth
population growth over the last decade and is expected to reach some 1.35
million tons annually by 1985. This takes into account the expected in-
crease in population while maintaining the level of rice consumption per
capita. Average annual production was 0.8 million tons in the 1966/67-
1968/69 period. Only 5% of total production was exported in this period
but exporte show a rapidly rising trend and an increasing diversification
from traditional outlets in France to nearby markets such as Reunion,
Maurittus, Comore Islands and the Union of South Africa. In 1969, nearby
markets took about 75% of all Malagasy rice exports. Demand in these
countries is developing to such an extent that Madagascar has difficulty



- 19 -
in satisfying requirements. Rice exports are conservatively projected
at 80,000 to 85,000 tons annually in 1985. To meet domestic demand and
export requirements, Malagasy rice production would have to increase
mainly in the better quality varieties to about 1.4 million tons in 15
years, or a compounded growth of 3-1/2% per annum.
Prices
6.05      In accordance with national policy, domestic prices of rice are
kept on the same level as export prices and export price projections have
been used to value incremental rice output from the project area. Present
export prices of rice of the Makalioka 34 variety average FMG 37,500 per
ton (US$137 per ton) F.O.B. Tamatave. Wholesale prices on the Tananarive
market for rice of the same variety are slightly lover, due to lower
shipping costs, averaging about FMG 36,000 per ton (US$132 per ton). When
costs of handling, milling and transportation as vell as distribution
margins are deducted, and with a 66% milling rate of paddy into rice, the
average price of paddy paid to the producer reaches FMG 15,000 per ton
(US$55 per ton). Exports from the Lake Alaotra plain have reached 35%
of total marketed rice production in the area and go mainly to Reunion;
the remaining 65% is sold in the domestic market. The commodity division
of the Bank's Economics Department forecasts the export price of a com-
parable variety (Thai white rice, 35% broken) at US$102 per ton in 1976,
declining to US$95 per ton in 1985, F.O.B. Bangkok. To reflect slightly
lower shipping costs from Madagascar to Reunion, as well as a consumer's
preference for Makalioka 34 over Thai white rice in the Reunion market,
10% has been added to these forecasts. On this basis, export prices
F.O.B. Tamatave would decline to US$110 per ton in 1976 and to US$105
per ton in 1985. The decline would be reflected by a drop in prices paid
to the producers to an average of FMG 12,200 per ton of paddy (US$45 per
ton) in 1985.
Farmers' Income
6.06      Farm-gate prices at full agricultural development are projected
on the basis of expected 1985 world market prices, valued at the current
exchange rate. Using these prices, cash income 1/ at full development for
a farm in the project area would rise to FMG 182,500 (US$656) per annum,
compared to FMG 49,500 (US$178) per annum without the project. This would
provide an incremental cash income of FMG 133,000 (US$478) annually as a
result of project implementation. All farm plots would be around 4 ha and
there would be no variations in incremental income due to different farm
sizes. A representative farm budget is shown in Annex 4, Table 5.
1/   Cash income is equal to gross value of production less family subsis-
tence allowance and production costs, in which management and family
labor have been costed at zero.



- 20 -
6.07      Assuming that the present system of levying charges in SOMALAC
areas would be the same as that used in the project area, but including
the proposed maintenance fee, and the proposed betterment levy after full
development, the impact on annual incremental income of the farmer would
be as follows:
% of Incremental
FMG              Cash Income
Annual charges
(a) During the first
15 years
Repayment charge         36,110                 27
Taxes                     4,450                  3
40,560                 30
(b) During the next
25 years
Maintenance fee           9,000                  7
Contribution to
cooperative            12,000                  9
Taxes                     4,450                  3
Betterment levy          25,000                 18
50,450                 37
6.08      The above table shows that the impact of project charges would be
considerable.  However, since farmers would more than triple their income
and would eventually own the land they are cultivating, they should be able
to make such payments without losing incentive.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Completion of the project would result in two prime benefits.
First there would be a significant expansion in annual rice production
needed to satisfy the projected increase in demand. Second, the experimen-
tal crop diversification program, combined with an effective extension
service, would permit the growing of off-season crops, opening the way for
more diversified agricultural production in an exclusively rice-rowing
district.  Gross foreign exchange earnings from the project at full de-
velopment would amount to approximately US$1.1 million per year.
7.02      At full agricultural development in 1985, the annual gross value
of production with the project would reach approximately FMG 605 million,
compared with a production of FMG 179 million without the project, both
valued at expected prices on the world market and converted into farm-gate



- 21 -
prices. Production wlth the project includes off-season crops worth FMG
109 million. After allowing for increases in production costs, the annual
net incremental value of production at full development would approximate
FMG 373 million.
7.03      All past investments estimated at US$0.9 million, or 11% of pro-
ject costs, have been disregarded as their present value is negligible but
the full economic cost of extension services (both local and expatriate per-
sonnel) has been included in the cost stream. Family labor has been costed
at zero and as no hired labor will be required, labor coste have not been
included. As the results of experiments in crop diversification would
benefit all SOMALAC areas (30,000 ha), only one-third of its cost has been
allocated to the project area. Cost and benefit streams used in the cal-
culations have been presented in Annex 11, page 2. On this basis the rate
of return to the economy would reach about 11%.
7.04      To test the rate of return against the uncertainty that the more
important parameters would develop as expected, varying levels for each
parameter have been assumed, as described in Annex 11. Sensitivity tests
show that for every 10% change in either costs or benefits, the rate of
return changes by about 1%. The tests indicate a range for the rate of
return between 9% and 12%.
7.05      This analysis does not take into account any indirect or induced
benefits derived from the project. The project would reduce under-employ-
ment to a significant degree, particularly during the dry season. Increased
expenditure as a result of higher incomes would pave the way for the devel-
opment of secondary activities in the Lake Alaotra plain. Local personnel
would be trained in extension work and could form the nucleus of an effi-
cient extension service in the country. Though not quantifiable, these
factors tend to enhance the project's economic Justification.
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained, amongst others that
the Government will:
(a) cause SOMALAC to maintain a level and organization
of extension services in the project area, satis-
factory to IDA, for not less than 15 years and that
it will itself provide the necessary extension ser-
vices thereafter (para 4.23);
(b) employ at least 4 expatriates in the extension ser-
vice for the project area according to an agreed
schedule and replace key personnel for extension
work in consultation with the Association (para
5.05);



- 22 -
(c)  enable SOMALAC to employ competent Malagasy person-
nel for key posts at higher salaries or with more
fringe benefits than those presently being offered
(para 5.05);
(d)  make SOMALAC responsible for all project O&M dur-
ing its 15-year contract period (para 5.08);
(e)  introduce from the 16th year onward, a fee adequate
to cover the cost of maintenance presently estimated
at FMG 2,250 per ha per year, to be paid directly by
the farmer (para 5.13);
(f)  introduce, from the 16th year onward a betterment
levy to be paid by the project beneficiaries and
at least sufficient to recover all the monies in-
vested without interest (para 5.15);
(g)  cause SOMALAC to continue to levy existing charges
during the initial 15 years (para 5.15).
8.02      In addition to the customary conditions, a condition of effective-
ness of the credit would be that:
Government had established a project coordinating
committee to supervise the implementation of proj-
ect works (para 5.01).
8.03      With these assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
on standard terms, of US$5.0 million equivalent. The borrower would be the
Government of the Malagasy Republic.



MALAGASY REPILIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Data Ambohitsilaozana, EDerimental Station (IRAM)
Temperatures (1931-60)               RainfalL (193i-60)
Tx+Th  Avg      Avg     Absolute   Absolute   Average    Rainy   Hygrometry   Sunshine, Average Hr
Months      2     Max     Min         Max       Min      Rainfall    Days         %        per Month (1941-67)
January      23.4   28.5    18.3       33.1      13.8          309       17        79.5               139
February     23.1   28.3    18.0       32.6      13.0          263       15        80.1               119
March        22.9   28.0    17.9       33.4      14.0          207       15        80.8                169
April        21.7   27.3    16.2       31.6      11.0           36        6        79.3                156
May          19.6   25.5    13.7       30.3       5.5           10        4        78.0                161
June         17.6   23.6    11.7       27.9       4.5            8        5        77.6                147
July         16.8   22.6    11.0       28.0       5.1           10        6        77.0                171
August       17.2   23.3    11.1       28.1       5.9            6        4        75.5                186
September    18.4   24.9    11.9       31.0       6.5            3        3        71.4                210
October      20.3   27.4    13.3       33.5       5.7           23        3        68.5                248
November     22.3   29.0    15.6       33.7       9.1           94        8        68.5                219
December     23.1   29.1    17.2       33.6      10.1          207       13        74.2                180
20.6   26.5    14.7                             1176        99       75.9               2085
Tx   Maximum temperatures
Th  Minimum temperatures






ANNEX 2
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.        The first knowledge of the evolution of peats after drainage came
from a soil survey performed in the PC 23 area in 1950 by Moureaux and
Riquier. Then in 1960, R. Didier de Saint Amand, pedologist, made another
study of the area, taking samples from the same locations covered in the
earlier survey in order to note what evolution had occurred in the inter-
vening years. In some pla.ces, the layer of organic matter had decreased by
9.5 m to 1.2 m; in other places, where drainage was not too effective (nea.r
drain DÙ), the peat layers remained unchanged. Fire, combined with a. lowering
of the water table, had modified the soil morphology; in loca.tions where total
hydromorphy continued to exist, soil profiles remained unchanged.
2.        The evolution of peat is closely linked to the effectiveness of
drainage, to the type of cultural practices and to the characteristics of
each individual pedological profile. In places where the percentage of
sand, silt a.nd clay in the profile is high, even with good drainage,
shrinkage in soil layers is negligible. If the peat has been burnt, a.shes
are found to a depth of 30 cm, with the percenta.ge of organic matter in the
profile grea.tly reduced.  If hydromorphy is re-established by raising
groundwater levels, Cyperaceae reappear and organic matter is again produced.
3.        In 1963, during a soil survey covering some 6,000 ha in the PC 23
area, several hundred soil profiles were studied and the elevation of the
subsoil in the whole area was surveyed. In 1970 a new soil survey was ca.r-
ried out in the same area with the specific purpose to upda.te information
on the depth of the peat layers. The results of this survey showed that the
existing drainage system has left about 2,000 ha. in the northern part of the
a.rea unaffected but ha.s lowered the water tables significantly on about 4,000
ha. in the central and southern part of the area. Uncontrolled burning ha.s
taken place in certain parts of this area a.s a result of which the original
peat layers have been somewhat reduced.  Bearing capacity, however, ha.s been
affected only slightly, and with proper reclamation procedures, the remaining
peat layers can be preserved (para h.09). Only in the southern part, along
the protecting drke of the Sahabe River has uncontrolled burning destroyed
most of the organic matter in the soil, leaving a thin layer of ashes over
the clay subsoil (para 3.05).
4.        The depth of peat increases in general from scuth to north and
from west to east, toward the lake. In the northeastern lower part, peaty
soils occur in three layers:
(a)  fron ground surfa-ce to a depth of h0 cm - dark, with
some silt and much undecayed vegetative matter;
(b)  between h0 cm and 120 cm - dark with roots still not
completely decayed; and
(c)  between 120 cm and 180 cm - reddish brown.



ANNEX 2
Pa ge 7
The peat horizons are underlain by a grey impermeable clay layer, a.pparently
part of the original lake bottomn. The soils contain a high percentage of
organic matter, but all the soils of PC 23 are deficient in P O  and poor in
potash. The following is a typical analysis of these soils. 2 5
Unburnt        Oxidized or Burnt
Peat Soils        Peat Soils
pH                                  4.4               4.6
Sand, %                             5.9              17.5
silt, %                            24.5              3h.5
Clay, %                            2h.0              35.0
Organic matter, %                  45.6              11.8
Total N, %                          -                 6.8
C/N ratio                          3h.2              10.1
Total exchangeable
cations, m.e. %                   2.9               2.4
Exchange capacity, m.e. %          42.6              22.0
5.        Some 800 ha of shallow, mineral soils occur along the original
bed of the Sahabe River in the southwest of the project area.  Productivity
of these lands under irrigation is bslow the area. average. Irrigation tests
will be conducted before such areas are lncluded in the proposed irrigation
development. If the tests are disappointing, the areas will remain under
rainfed rice cultivation, and part of the rainfed rice development along the
eastern boundary of the project area will be included in the irrigation
development.



ANNEX 3
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Societe Malgache d'Amenagement du Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC)
Organization and Ownership
1.        SOMALAC was set up in March 1962, as a limited stock (share)
company with a capital of F113 20 million, divided into 2,000 shares of
FMG 10,000 each.
2.        Shares were distributed as follows:
Malagasy Republic                                      1,100
Chamber of Commerce, Tamatave                            300
Caisse des Depots et Consignations                       195
SCET-COOP                                                  5
BNM                                                      200
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique,
Paris (CCCE)                                            200
2,000
3.        The Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) is made up of 9
members.  The 5 directors nominated by the Government are the:
(a) Vice-President or the Republic (Chairman of the Board);
(b) Minister of Agriculture;
(c) Minister of Finance;
(d)  Vice-Minister of Agricilture for the Eastern Zone; and
(e)  Director of the Planning Office.
The 4 directors of the minority shareholders are the:
(a) Representative of the Chamber of Conmerce, Tamatave;
(b)  Representative of BNM;
(c) Representative of SCET-COOP; and
(d) Representative or OCCE.
h.        The objectives of SOMALAC as set forth in the statutes are as follows:
(a)  to develop the Lake Alaotra region for small farmrs; and
(b)  to ensure that the size of the holdings will provide a
minimum income of US$ 100 per capita at full development.



ANNME 3
Page 2
Activities
5.        The development process covers the following activities of SOMALAC:
(a) consolidation and redistribution of land;
(b) on-farm development;
(c) provision of extension services; and
(d) supply of agricultural credit.
All planning work for land consolidation and redistribution and for on-farm
development is done by SCET-COOP, a French consulting firm, under contract
to SOMALAC. SCET-COOP also provides key personnel to SCMAIAC to implement
on-farm development works and to provide extension services.
6.        Consolidation and redistribution of land is accomplished in 5
stages:
(a)  Stage 1.  An investigator, holding a map showing the
division of land by parcel and the census list of people
living in the villages concerned, holds an inquiry to
meet the landowners and cultivators of the pa.rcels involved.
(b)  Stage 2   An estimate of the land value of the parcels
inhluede in an irrigation "unit" (about 300 ha of land
supplied by one tertiary irriga.t6r) is established,
taking into account the size of the parcels (more or less
than 5 ha); whether they have been leveled; whether they
are cultivated, irrigated, and drained; and the avera.ge
yield they produce, either with direct sowing or by
transplanting. Their value would vary between FMG 5,000
per ha for uncultivated lands to FMG 50,000 per ha for
parcels of more than 5 ha that were leveled and equipped
with an irrigation and drainage network.
(c)  Stage 3.  One of the following offers is proposed to each
owner of land in the project area:
(1)  allotment of a parcel in the new irrigation unit,
with consideration given to the acreage previously
owned, the family and its resources;
(2) allotment of a parcel outside the irrigation area.,
and resettlement there in exchange for land located
in the irrigation area to be consolidated; or
(3)  payment in exchange for the land held in the irrigation
'init. n



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(d) Stage h. The administrative procedure starts vith
the posting of the established documents. The Aire de
Mise en Valeur Rurale (AMVR) then takes up complainta,
and varnings of possible expropriation would be issued
to opponents if they do not accept the proposed solution.
(e)  Stage 5. Farmers receive their lands after SOMALAC has
completed on-farm development.  Each farm has the fol-
lowing characteristics:
(1) acreage in accordance with the needs of the family
and its resources;
(2) a direct road approach to the family farm;
(3)  an hydraulic network, making possible irrigation
and drainage; and
(4)  land leveling adapted to the proposed irrigated
crops.
7.        On-farm development work is done in 2 stages.  After the consoli-
dation plan is approved, land is cleared, plowed and put under rainfed rice
production for 2-3 years. Next the leveling is done., contour basins are pre-
pared and quaternary irrigation and tertiary drainage ditches excavated. The
cost of on-farm development is actually FMG 41,000 per ha (including amor-
tization of equipment).
8.        SOMALAC provides intensive extension services to farmers, orga.nized
into zones of about 1,500 ha each.  Persons in charge of each zone (chef de
zone) have a team of 10 extension agents plus 3 administrators.  A pro3ect
administrator (chef de perimetre) supervises the functioning of these exten-
sion teams in 3-4 z-nes. The duties of extension agents, in addition to
teaching farmers modern production techniques, include:
(a) distributing water to each unit within a zone;
(b) assisting farmers in obtaining medium-term loans for farm
implements (plows and ox carts), as well as short-term
production credit, and supplying them with needed inputs;
(c) assisting farmers in operating collective harvesting
equipment;
(d)  collecting farmers' annual repayments;
(e) organizing farmers to maintain tertiary and quaternary
canals and drains; and
(f)  creating farmers' cooperatives that would gradually be
able to take over the functions of the extension service
staff.
The extension teams remain at full strength during 8 years after the creation
of the zone and are gradually thinned out afterwards; at the end of the 15-
year period, only 2-3 extension agents are left for each zone.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Agricultural credit is provided by the Development Barik of Mada-
gascar (BNM). Loans to farmers are made through SaMALAC for 3 years (1 year
of grace) at 12% interest (6% from BNM to SOMALAC) to finance farm imple-
ments and for 8 months at 12% annua.lly (6½% from BNM to SOMALAC) to finance
current inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides. Loan applica.tions are
made through SOMALAC's extension service which appraises the farmerts ability
and competence. If the outcome is satisfactory, the application is sent to
the BNM local office at Ambatondrazaka where the financia.l position of ea.ch
borrower is exa.mined before loa.ns are a.pproved.
Financial Structure
10.       SOMALAC a.ctivities are financed from several sources as follows:
(a) preliminary studies for land consolidation and redistri-
bution, crop diversification trials, the setting up of
field offices, workshop and administrative transport re-
quirements, and the employment of expatriate personnel
are financed by FAC through annual grants;
(b) land acquisition, general overhead costs and extension
services are covered by interest-free government loans; and
(c)  on-farm development costs, including engineering, are fi-
nanced by long- and medium-term loans (15 years and 5 yea.rs,
both at 6% interest) from BNM.
11.       The farmer receives his land under a 15-yenr lease-purchase contract.
Under the contract, he has to meet a. list of obligations, the most important
of which is the payment of annual charges. The charge is to be pa.id in kind
and is set up at 500 kg of paddy during the first year, 650 kg in the second,
and 740 kg from the third up to the fifteenth year. After the tenth year,
however, a deduction is made for the value of the land the farmer brought in
at resettlement. The charge to the farmer represents more than 20% of gross
revenue from production a.t full development.
12.       The annual charge paid by the farmer during the first 15 years is
designed to repay the cost of land a.cquisition, the cost for on-farm develop-
ment, including financial charges of SOMA-LAC payable on its loans from BNM,
and the local cost of extension services. Including the grant from FAC,
SOMAIAC is thus fully reimbursed for its services and able to repay the loans
from BNM and Government.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF SOMALAC
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER    ]
FIELD MANAGER                        ADVISOR ON RESETTLEMENT AND
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
CHIEF ENGINEER               EXTENSION SERVICES             PROCESSING INDUSTRIES        ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE
______________________  __________ __________AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
NORTHERN     SOUTHERN                                                       SECRETARIA
REGION       REGION                  RICE MILL              ACCOUNTANCY    SERVICES
DEVELOPMENNT WORKS            ZONES         ZONES                                          ACCOUNTANT    GENERAL
GENERAL      SECRETARY
WORKSHOPS            |    DIRECT CULTIVATION                                            ALOCAL         LOCAL
OF RECLAIMED AREAS
CENTRAL       FIELD
WORKSHOP    WORKSHOP
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                          «
IBRD-4709 (2R)






MALAGA$Y REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATIOIN PXOJECT
Paddg- -tice Production without Improvenent o^ Irrigation and Drainage
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976   .        . 1984
SOMALAC Perimeter            980 ha  ton/ha  2.6   2.8   3.0   3.2   3.3   3.>   3.5
400 ha  ton/ha  2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1
Production 103 ton  3.38  3.58  3.78  3.98  4.07  4.17  4.27                4.27
MICOUIN Perimeter          1,830 ha  ton/ha  2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1
Production 103 ton  3.84  3.84  3.84  3.84  3.84  3.84  3.84                 3.84
Other Land of the          5,910 ha  ton/ha  0.53  0.53  0.53  0.53  0.53  0.53  0.53
Project Area          Production 103 ton  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15                 3.15
Total Production 103 ton 10.37 10.57 10.77 10.97 11.06 11.16 11.26                11.26
Private Estate   1O3 ton  2.92  3.10  3.21  3.31  3.31  3.31  3.31                 3.31
(900 ha)
Total Production PC 23   13.29 13.67 13.98 14.28 14.37 L4.47 14.57                14.57
Price of paddy (FMG/kg)  14.2  14.0  13.9  13.7  13.5  13.3  13.1                 12.3
Value of production       188.9 191.4 194.3 195.6 194.0 192.4 190.9              179.2
(FMG millions)
1/ Only 35% of the area can be cultivated, with an average yield of 1.5 ton/ha.
I>>
(D
M-I ~






MALAAGASY R3PUBLIC
LKKE ALAOTRA IfdIGATIO0N PROJECT
Paddy Rice Production with ImDrovement of Irrigation and Drainage
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
SOMALAC Perimeter  980 ha  Ton/ha   2.8   3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.5
400 ha  ton/ha   2.1   2.1    2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3-.    3-5'   3.5    3.5
Production     1o3 ton  3.58  3.78   3.98   4.01   4.20   4.47   4.55   4.63   4.71   4.75   4.83   4.83   4.83   4.83
MICOUDI Perimeter  550 ha  ton/ha   2.4   2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.5
300 ha  ton/ha   2.1   2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.5
980 ha  ton/ha   2.1   2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.5
Produc.-ion    103 ton  4.01  4.21   4.67   5.04   5.40   5.72   6.00   6.18   6.31   6.40   6.40   6.40   6.40   6.40
New Areas  1971  1,010 ha-/ton/ha   1.0(a)2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5
Production      103 ton  1.01  2.12   2.42   2.62   2.82   3.03   3.23   3.33   3.43   3.53   3.53   3.53   3.53   3.53
1972  1,600 ha- ton/ha   1.0   1.0(a) 2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5
Production      103 ton  0.84  1.92   3.36   3.84   4.16   4.48   4.80   5.12   5.28   5.44   5.60   5.60   5.60   5.60
1973  1,700 ha- ton/ha   0.53  1.2   1.8        2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5
Production      10  ton  0.90  2.04  3.06    3.57   4.08   4.42   4.76   5.10   5.44   5.61   5.78   5.95   5.95   5.95
3/                     1.8~~~~~~~~(a)
1974  1,850 ha- ton/ha   0.3   0.5   1.2        1.8    2.1    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.5
Production     1o3 ton  0.55  0.92  2.22    3.33   3.88   4.44   4.81   5.18   5.55   5.92   6.10   6.29   6.17   6.47
Rainfed Area      1,750 ha  ton/ha   O      O      O        O      0.5    1.2    1.8    2.1    2.3
Production      1o3 ton  O     0      O       °       0.87   2.10   3.15   3.67   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02
Private Estate 103 ton  3.20  3.40  3.60    3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3.60
(900 ha)
Total ProductionLO3ton 14.09 18.39 23.31   26.01  29.10  32.26  34.90  36.81  38.34  39.27  39.86  40.22  40.40  40.40
PC 23
Price of paddy (FM3/kg)              14.0  13.9  13.7    13.5   13.3   13.1   13.0   12.9   12.8   12.7   12.6   12.5   12.4   12.3
Value of production (Fi.f million) 197.3 255.6 319.3   351.1  387.0  422.6  453.7  474.8  490.8  498.7  502.2  502.7  501.0  496.9
(a) on farm development.             L/ 66% of the area is presently producing an average yield of 1.5 ton/ha.
2/ 35» of the area is presently producing an average yield of 1.5 ton/ha.                   » « S
3/ 20% of the area is presently producing an average yield of 1.5 ton/ha.                      @
g_ r



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Revenue of Off-Season Crops during the Development Period
1971-75            1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Program of experiments
Wheat and barley                                     20ha   40ha   60ha   80ha   lOOha  200ha  400ha  600ha  800ha  l,OOOha
Value of production 2T/ha
at 12,000 FMG/Ton                                 0.48   0.96   1.4h   1.92   2,4    4.8    9.6    1h.4   19.2    24
Beans                                                20ha   40ha   60ha   80ha   lOOha  200ha  400ha  600ha  800ha  l,OOOha
Value of production in M
FMtG lT/ha at 45,000 FMG/T                       0.9    1.8    2.7    3.6    4.5    9         18     27      36      45
Forage crops                                         40ha   80ha   120ha  160ha  200ha  400ha  800ha  1200ha L600ha 2000ha
Value of production in M FMG
with 20,000 FMG/ha                                0.8    1.6    2.4    3.2    4.0    8        16     2h      32      40
Total value of production in
M F14G                                            2.18   4.36   6.54   8.72   10.9   21.8   43.6   65.4   87.2    109
OPl
A9 >



ANNEX 4
MALAGASY REPUBLIC                          Table 3
Page 1
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Growing Per Hectare Cost of Production
I. With the Project                               Direct Sowing
A.  Rice on Peaty Soils                 Clean Weeding   Herbicides   Transplanting
FM       FM             FMs- 
Seeds 110 kg of Makalioka 34
FM2 17/kg             1,870          1,870
40 kg of Makalioka 34
-ÎEG 17/kg                                           680
Nursery, h acres manure+fertilizer 1/                                  400
Herbicides STAM F 34 2/                               4,500
Pesticides HCH 20 kg/ha FMG 50/kg 3/   1,000          1,000          1,000
Amortization of equipment 4/            2,000          2,000         2,000
Amortization of working animals 5/    1 480           1,480          1,480
~~ k            ~~10,S0u;i
B. Rice on Mineral Soils
Same expenses as above                  6,350        10,850          5,560
Fertilizers:
Ammonium sulfate, 200 kg              3,h00         3,400          3,400
Hyperphosphate, i ton every 5 yr      3,400         3,400          3 400
13,150         7,650
1/  Nursery, 4 acres: manure, P.M. ammonium sulfate, 12 kg x 17 = FM2 204
hyperphosphate, 12 kg x 17 = FMG 204; Total PMG 400
2/  Herbicides: STAM F 34 in post-emergence when weeds have 2 or 3 leaves or TOK
-in pre-emergence or early post-emergence
3/  Pesticides: 20 kg of HCH per ha against leafhoppers propagating virus diseases
T4/  Equipment: 1 plow, FMG 41,000; 1 barramW  FW3 1,500; 1 cart, FMG 34,000;
hand tools, FMG 3,500; amortization over 10 years
5/ Vorking animals: 6 cattle bought FMG 15,000 and resold FMG 10,000 each after 8
years, which representS an annual amortization of FMG 940/ha -
concentrates during the land preparation period in addition to the
natural pasture grazing: 3 kg per animal during 30 days = FMG 2,160
Oz 540/ha
II. Without the Project
A.  Rice on Peaty  and Mineral Soils               Direct Sowing    Transplanting
FG               FM
Seeds, 110 kg of Makalioka 34, FMG 15/kg           1,650
40 kg of Makalioka 34, FMG 15/kg                              600
Amortization of equipment 1/                         500              500
Amortization of working animals 2/                    625             625
2,775           1,725
1/ Locally produced equipment estimated at FMG 20,000.  Amortization over 10 years
for 4 hectares, or FMG 500/ha/year.
2/  4 cattle bought, FMG 15,000 and resold, FMG 10,000 each, after 8 years, which
represents an annual amortization of FMG 625/ha.



TaMbe 3
Pa ge 2
Off-Season Crops Per Hectare Cost of Production
(With the project only)
Forage Crops       Industrial Crops
Maize     Soya             Soya    Wheat-
Sorghum   Vetch   Beans   seeds   Barley
Seeds                                  300    1,200   3,600       600   1,200
Fertilizers - ammonium sulfate       3,400                              3,4oo
hyperphosphate         3,400    3,400   3,400   3,400   3,400
Equipment - working animals 1/            0        0       0        0       0
7,100    4560    7,000   4,o000   U,000
1/ Amortization of equipment and working animals have been taken into
account with the rice crop.



MALMGASY REPUBLIC                          ANNEX 4
Table h
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Per Hectare Return for the Different Crops with the Project
Yields,   Price     Gross    Production   Net
ton/ha    per ton   Return   Co0t          Return
Paddy, peaty soils:
Clean weeding                3.5      12,200    42,700    6,350        36,350
Herbicides                   3.5      12,200    42,700   10,850         31,850
Transplanting                3.5      12,200    42,700    5,560         37.,410
Mineral soils:
Clean weeding                3.5      12,200    42,700   13,150         29,550
Herbicides                   3.5      12,200    42,700   17,650         25,050
Transplanting                3.5      12,200    42,700   12,360         30,340
Forage crops: maize, sorghum       1/        1/       20,000    7,100        12,900
Soya, vetch                   1/        1/       20,000    4,600        15,400
Industrial crops: beans          1 ton     40,000    40,000    7,000         33,000
Soya seeds                 15 tons    20,000    30,000    4,000         26,000
Wheat and barley            2 tons    15,000    30,000    8,000         22,000
1/  It is assumed that each hectare grown (half in maize, half in soya) is able to
produce forage for fattening of 4 cattle bought for FMI 12,000 each in July and
resold at FMG 17,000 at the end of December.  The net return viil be FMG 20,000
per hectare.
½ ha of maize will produce 25 tons of green forage.
½ ha of soya will produce 7.5 tons of green lorage.
7 kg of maize forage produce 1 forage unit (1 UF)
5.3 kg of soya forage produce 1 forage unit (1 UF)
25 tons of maize forage + 7.5 tons of SQya forage will produce
25,000 + 7 500 = 4,960 or about 5,000 UF
7       5t3
With the assumption 1 UF = FMG 4
1 hectare of forage will return FMI 20,000
Per Hectare Return for Rice Without the Project
Yielda,   Price     Gross    Production   Net
ton/ha    per ton   Return   Co0t          Return
Paddy on peaty and
mineral soils
Broadcast crops                   1.2       12,200    14,640    2,775        11,865
Transplanted crops                1.2      12,200    14,640    1,725         12,915






ANj,aX 4
Table 5
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget*
The proposed program is planned for fa.rms of h net ha, producing paddy
during the rainy season - 1 ha with transplanting and 3 ha with direct sowingg,
2 ha. of which a.re clea.ned by hand, and 1 ha. with herbicides - and 2 ha during
the dry season - 1 ha. of forage crops (½ ha of maize + ½ ha of vetch) and 1 ha.
of industrial crops 0½ ha of beans and ½ ha. of wheat).
With the Project                           Without the Project
A.  Gross Revenue
4 ha of paddy, 3.5 tons/ha FMG 12,200/ton - 170,800  4 ha. of paddy, 1.2 ton/ha.
1 ha of forage crops                       =  20,000                  FMG 58,560
½ ha of beans, 500 kg x FMG 40              =  20,000
½ ha. of wheat, 1,000 kg x FGG 15          =  15,000
2255800
B. Cost of Production
Paddy rice - 1 ha. transplanted                5,560  2 ha. transplanted      3,450
3 ha directly sown:              12,700  2 ha broadcast         5,550
2 with hand weeding and                                         9,000
1 with herbicides:               10,850
Forage crops - i ha. of maize                  3,550
3 ha. of vetch                  2,300
Industrial crops - ½ ha of beans               3,500
½ ha of wheat               h 000
429,460
Net revenue, 225,000 - 42,460 = FMG 182,540            58,560 - 9,000   FMG 49,560
C. Financia.1 Charges
During the first 15 years
Principal charge, 2,960 kg paddy
at FMG 12.2/kg                            36,110
Head tax                                      3 ,450                        3,450
Land tax (h ha. at FMG 250/ha)               1,000                          1,000
40,5560                        45450
Net revenue after charges                    141,980                         45,11o
After the first 15 years
O & M cha.rge (4 ha at FMG 2,250/ha)         9,000
AIR contribution (4 ha. at FMG 3,000/ha)    12,000
Head tax                                     3,45o
Land tax                                     1,000
Betterment levy                             25 000
50,5
Net revenue after charges                    132,090
*The proposed program can be rea.lized by a fa.rm family withaut hired labor.






ANNEX 5
LAKE ALAOTRA IMRIGATION PROjECT
DescriDt4-n of CiVil Works
1. Rehabilitation of Pl Canal
(a)  The Pl canal (2h km of unlined earth canal) vas constructed
about 12 years ago by RES to serve as the main supply canal
(17 m3/sec) for scae 18,800 ha of rice land in the PC 23
project area.. A storage dam upstrean of the diversion from
the Sahamilahy was to supply the canal vith a regulated flow
sufficient to irrigate the 18,800 ha of the original project
area. The construction of the storage dam was postponed and
the area irrigated from this canal was reduced to h,000 ha.
In order to augment the run-of-the-river flow of the Saha-
milahy, 3 smailer rivers - the Sahemena, the Behengitra and
the Bemaren'na - were diverted into the canal where it inter-
sected their beds.
(b) The purpose of the proposed project works is to reduce con-
veyance and distribution losses through better control of
vater and to improve existing silting conditions.
(c)  The present command area. (L,OO0 ha.) would not be increased.
Project works would include:
(1)  Control structures.  Water levels in the canal are
regulated by 3 check structures. These have constant
downstream level gates set a fixed openinig since
available water quantities are much too small in re-
lation to the canal capacity for automa.tie operation.
The reconstructed turnouts on the canal vill enable
full control of vater supplied to ea.ch of the second-
ary irrigators. With reconstructed diversion struc-
tures on the Sahamilaty and the 3 minor rivers, measure-
ments could be made of quantities supplied. Through
proper setting of the constant downstrea.m level gates
and the varîous turnouts 4in accordance with available
water quantities, spillage and other distribution
losses in the system would be greatly ieduced.
(2) Diversion structures. The existing intake structure
on the Sahamila.hy River would be reconstructed to
exclude entry of coarse silt into the offtaking
channel. Now diversion structures with proper sand
traps would be constructed on the 3 minor streams.
All stretches, where heavy silting has reduced the
effective cross-section of the main canal, would
be excavated.
2.  Rehabilitation of "Low Level" Canal
(a)  Afewyears after completion of the Pl canal, RES built the
second major irrigation canal, utilizing the flow of the
Sahabe River. Some 6 km of unlined earth canal were con-
structed from a provisional river intake on the Sàhabe to
the intersection of the first lateral irrigation canal of
the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) The purpose of the proposed project works is to increa.se
throughput to 8 m3/sec and increase diversion qua.ntities;
to increase the area convmanded by the canal to 6,000 ha; and
to reduce conveyance and distribution losses through better
control of water. Project works would include:
(1)  Diversion structure on the Sahabe.  An earth embankment,
with a crest elevation of 762 m, would be constructed
along the right bank of the river from the embankment
of national highway "3a" to the diversion weir.  Other
works would include: (i) an overflow weir, ha.ving a
crest elevation of 760 m, made of Larssen SL2 sheet-
piling and supported by a, rock-filled embankcmeilt and
gabions; (ii) 3 scouring sluices with a. sill elevation
of 759 m, supported on a. curtain of sheetpiling wfith 3
sets of wooden needles to close the sluices during low
water flow; and (iii) an intake structure to a 300-m-
long connecting canal from the weir to the regulating
structure at the head of ths low-level canal.
(2)  Regulation structure at the hea.d of the low-level
cana.l. The existing regulating structure waild be
rebuilt to increase the throughput to 8 m3/sec;
additional slnice gates and flow-mea.suring devices
would be installed.
(3)  Various automatic water level gates, some hO turnouts
vith water-maasuring devices, control gates, bridges
and drainage underpasses.
(4)  Re-excavation of the existing canal (5 km) and excava-
tion of the new section (2-3 km).
(c) Construction quantities a.re estima.ted as follows:
Excavation a,nd fi-l            115,000 m3
Stone lining                         h4o0 m3
&huttering                            760 m2
Concrete                              310 m3
Reinforcing steel                      16 tons
Sheetpiling                            23 t3ns
Gabions                             1,000 m
Needles, sluice ga.tes
and neyrpic modules
3. Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation and Drainage Network (4,000 ha.)
(a) The existing networks were constructed by French concessionaires
over the last deca.de. To save on construction costs, some
drainage canals were also used as irrigators, making water con-
trol and measurement difficult and causing considerable con-
veyance and distribution losses.



(b)  The purpose of the proposed project works is to enable better
control and distribution of water to the irrigation areas and
blocks and to facilitate control of groundwater tables. Pro-
ject works would include separation of the irrigation and
drainage systems; reconstruction of turnouts from the main
and secondary drainage canals and re-excavating, where nec-
essary, secandary and tertiary irrigators; and reconstruction
of farm roads.
(c) Construction quantities are estimated as follows:
Excavation and fill                   188,000 m3
Ma.sonry work                             h5O m2
Shuttering                              4,200 m
Concrete                                1,150 m 2
Reinforcing steel                          77 tons
Sluice gates                               35
Neyrpic modules                             3
Constant downstream level gates             2
Siphons                                     3
California-type gates                      h0
h.  Construction of the Irrigation, Drainage and Road Network (6,000 ha)
(a)  The primary drainage system, constructed during the last decade,
divided the project area into 4 more or lesa parallel zones from
north to south.  The 4 para.llel drains, Dl, D2x D3 and D4, are
spaced at approximately 3-km intervals. The central east-west
axis of the project is along D2, which receives the combined
flows from the other main drains and extends into the marshes
to a point some 1.5 km to the east of the project boundary.
(b)  The purpose of the proposed project works is to develop for
irrigation the areas reclaimed from the marshes to the east
of the presently irrigated zone. Project works would include
the deepening and widening, where necessary, of the main drain-
age systemn, construction of the secondary drainage system and
all control structures on the dra.ins for the regulition of ground-
water tables, construction of the secondary and tertiary irri-
gation systen with all water distribution structures and turn-
outs to quaternary irrigators, and construction of all farm
roads and bridges.
(c)  Construction quantities are estimated as follows:
Excavation and fill                 2,800,000 mi3
Masonry work                            2,000 m
Shuttering                             16,300 m2
Concrete                                6,400 m3
Reinforcing steel                         372 tons
Sheetpiling                                55 tons
Neyrpic modules                            51
Constant downstream level gates             1
Siphons                                    25
California-type gates                     114
Sluice gates                               81



ANN   5
5. Main Drainage Outfall towards Lake
(a)  The purpose of the proposed drainage outfa.ll is 'Io dra.in  rinter
floods from the project area towards the lake and to lower
groundwater tables in the peat soils of the projrct area.
Project works would include re-excavation and ex;ensioll of
the existing main drain towards the lake.  The prlIimina.ry de--
sign calls for the excavation of an additional 9 km of the main
drain towards the lake. The canal would be excavated with a
bottom width of 15 m and a depth of 5 m. AUl excavated material
would be placed on the southern side of the canal.
(b) Construction quantities for 9,000 m of drains are esiilmated
as follows:
Clearing of floating vegetation         85O,09O m3
Excavation in peat                      148,000 m3
Excavation in clay                      233,00   m3
. On-farm Developoent Work
All planning work for on-farrm development would ibe done by SCET-COOP,
under contract to SOMAIAC. After the reparcelletion plan is
approved, a block of landwouldbe cleared, plowed and planed. On
peat soils these land preparation works would be carried out A  2
stages with groundwater levels at 20-25 cm below ground surface.
First, the land would be cleared, plowed and put under rainfed rice
production for 2-3 years.  Following this, a topographical manp and a
leveling program would be drawn up and the leveling operation,
carried out with bulldozers and scrapers, would produice an even slope.
Then, a surveyor, followed by a ditch plow, would prepare 10-cm
contour basins perpendicular to the dominant slope of the area..
Once the contour ridges vere in place, the area would be photographed
from the air at a scale of lt5,000.  On the photo-mosaic, the in-
dividual farm plots would be laid out, together with the irrigation
and drainage ditches. Drains and quaternary irrigators would then
be constructed and the land would be ready to be turned over to the
farmers. The entire operation will be completed in one dry season.



ANNEX 6
MAIAC-ASY RERIBIJC
IAKE AIAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Experiments in Crop Diversification
1.        Presently, only one crop of paddy Makalioka 34 is grown during
the rainy season and there is almost no cultivation during the dry season
although a crop could be produced if the irrigation systems were improved
and developed. Some small-scale experiments with forage crops and industrial
crops have already been made in the agricultural research station of IRAN.
While the type of crops to be raised during the dry season has been fairly
well established, the economic and commercial aspects, especially
the use of forage crops for large-scale cattle fattening, need further testing
on a suitable scale.
2.        A 65-ha experimental farm on peaty soils would be set up during
the dry season of 1970 near drain D4 in the northern part of the irrigation
scheme. It is expected that the necessary irrigation, drainage and on-farm
development works would be paid by FAC. Experimentation would start in
November 1970 and continue for 5 years. In 1976, the most progressive
farmers would start off-season crops, and, in 1985, these crope vould be
developed on at least 5,000 ha of the irrigated area.
3.        During the 5-year experimnatal period, forage crops (maize, sorghum
and soya for silage; vetch oate for hay; and maise,sorghum and soya for
green forage) and industrial crops (wheat, barley, beans and soya seoeds)
would be grown in the dry season a±ter rice had been harvested.
4.        The development of a new rice variety having a shorter growing
season and good marketing qualities and which could be harvested in April
instead of May would make dry-season cropping much more feasible.  The
higher temperatures of May/June are more favorable for starting such crops
than are the relatively low temperatures of July/August. of the types
tested by Institut de Recherche Agronomique Malgache (IRAM) and found
suitable for Lake Alaotra, the best is the 1632 variety. It belongs to the
Japonica type, is early maturing, lodging-resistant and nitrogen-responsive.
Derived from Chianan 8, it grows in less than 5 months and gives a milling
percentage of 70 (instead of 62 for Makalioka 34). It belongs to the round
instead of long type, but is very translucent and well accepted by consumers.
It grows well, either by direct sowing or transplanting. Large-scale
experiments will be made to grow this type of rice.
Proposed Program
5.        Three hectares would be assigned to IRAM for experimental work
with new varieties, fertilization, use of herbicides, pest control and
the like for rice, fodder crops and industrial crops.



ANiZEX 6
Page 2
6.        Fifty hectares would be devoted to fodder crops for production
of silage, green forage and hay.  These crops would be used for fattening
a herd of cattle to be bought at the end of July at FMG 12,000 per animaL
and resold at the end of December for an expected FMG 17,000.
7.        Twelve hectares would be devoted to wheat, barley, beans, soya
beans, and such for local consumption or export.
8.        Necessary personnel for the experimental farm uould include an
expatriate agronomist heading the farm, two Malagasy technical assistants,
one secretary, two drivers, one agent in charge of irrigation and eight
unskilled laborers. This group would establish and control all of the
programs of experimentation, such as exact periods of gro wing and
harvesting, yields, quality of the products, iieight increase of animals
during fattening and exact water conswuption during irrigation. These
experiments would contribute to the development of off-season crops, not
only on PC 23. but ailso in the other areas around the lake.
9.        There would be no revenue from the three ha devotad tc experiment.J.
trials.  However. during the raiMy season, the 62 ha of paddy rice would
produce 217 tons (3.5 ton/ha) worth FKG 3.25 million; during the dry season,
an average gross revenue of FMG 20,000 per ha could be expected from the
12 ha of industrial crops; and the 50 ha of fodder crops would be used to
fatten cattle and increase their value by FMG 5,000 per animal, or ?4MG 1
million for the 200-cattle herd. Tot&l revenue from the different crops
would reach MFE 4h.9 million per year.
10.       The cost of production could be estimated as FMG 15,000 pe.- ha
for rice and FM  10,000 per ha for the oIf-season crops, plus an annuaJ
expense of 1M1  9,900 per ha for fertilizers (1 ton of phosphate at
FMG 17,000 distributed over 5 years, plus FMG 6,500 of urea per ha);
FMM 300,000 would be spent every year for transportation and office
expenses. Annual production exPenses would reach FMG 2.46 million.
11.       Investment cost would be as follovs:  1/             FMG (million)
Tractors and implements                           12.85
Buildings                                          8.90
21.75
12.       Annual expenses would be:
Personnel                                          9.65
Vehicles                                           0.65
Cost of production                                 2.h6
IRAM experimentation                               3.00
Annual revenue                             4.49
11.27
1/ On the assumption that cost of the farm's infrastructure is paid
through an existing FAC credit.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
13.       Over a 5-year period, annual expenses would reach FMG 56.35
million. Total cost for this experimental station would be FMG 78.10
million, or US$ 285,000, with a residual value of FMG 4.45 million, or
US$ 16,300 after 5 years of operation.
IRAM Expense Estimates for 3 Ha at PC 23                           FMG
Salary of a technical agent, per year                  900,000
Eighteen workers every day for 300 days                810,000
Small implements for crops, pest control,
weighing and classification of harvests, etc.         290,000
Fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides                  340,000
Laboratory analyses                                    170,000
Trial analyses, statistic interpretation,
reports, etc.                                         130,000
Control of experimentation by IRAM specialists         360,000
3,000,000
Program of Experimentation
Varietal trials for rice, wheat, barley, oats, soya., beans, etc.
Varietal trials for fodder crops: maize, sorghum, vetch, soya, etc.
Fertilization trials
Herbicides trials
Pest control trials
Preparation of silage and hay with different forage crops
Personnel of Experimental Farm                                    FMG (million)
i Expatriate agronomist, annual cost                        6
2 Technical agents, FM 50,000 per month,
plus 50% overhead expenses                               1.8
1 Socretary, FMG 35,000 per month, plus
50% overhead expenses                                    0.63
2 Drivers, FMG 20,000 per montli                            0.48
1 Irrigation agent, FMG 25,000 per month                    0.30
8 Workers, FMG 150 per day for 360 days                     0.44
Tractors and Implements                                           FMG (million)
2 Tractors at FMG 1.4 million each                          2.80
2 Reversible plows at FMG 250,000 each                      0.50
2 Cover crops, 2 dises at FMG 250,000 each                  0.50
2 Trailers for forage at  MG 5OO,OOO *ach                   1.00
1 Rice seeder                                               o.50
1 Seeder                                                    0.30
1 Forage chopper                                            0.60
1 Mowing machine                                            0.25
1 Tedding maciLne                                           0.20
1 Harrow                                                    0.10
1 Cultivator                                                0.25
1 Pick-up bailer                                            0.50
1 Crawler combine, 4 m wide                                 4.50
1 Weighing maclhine for cattle                              0.35
Small implements                                            0.15
1 Pump, 200 m3/h                                            0.25
1 2 77



AMIM 6
Buildings
FMG (millions)
1 shed, 400 m2, with 100 m2 for office buildings            2.5
1 directorts house and furniture                            3.5
2 houses for technica.l agents, at FMG 500,000 each         1.0
1 house for secretary                                       0.5
3 houses for 2 drivers and 1 irrigation agent,
at FMG 300,000 each                                      0.9
1 pen for 200 cattle, with drinking and feeding
troughs and racks                                        0.5
Total                                                                  8.9



MAIAGASY REP3BLIC
LAKE AIACTRA IRRIGATIOII PRDJECT
Water Supply and Monthly Irrigation Requirements in m3/seci/
SUPPLY                                            SEPT  OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN   FEB   MAR   APR   MAY  JUNE  JULY   AUG
F. 1 Canal
Sahamilahy, Sahamena,
Bemarenina, Behengitra                           2.2   1.0   2.3   2.3   6.0   7.0   7.0   6.5   6.0   4.5   4.0   3.5
Low-Level Canal
Sahabe                                           5.0   4.4   5.1   5.4   9.0  20.0  20.0  14.0   7.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Total                                        7.2   5.4   7.4   7.7  15.0  27.0  27.0  20.5  13.0  10.5  10.0   9.5
Irrigation Requirements
Type                    Water Duty          ha
Pre-irrigation         1.24 1/sec         5,800  7.2
1.24 1/sec         1,200        1.5
Flooding Pre-irrigated 1.21 1/sec          5,600               7.0
Areas                  1.00 1/sec         1.200                     1.2
Flooding Areas not
Pre-irrigated           1.95 1/sec         3,000                     5.9
Consumptive Use,        0.48 1/sec         5,i00         2.8
Including Distribu-  .0.36 1/sec          1,200               0.4
tion Losses with a    0.10 1/sec          5,800                     0.6
64,Z Overall           0.06 1/sec        10,000                            0.6
Irrigation             0.30 1/sec        10,000                                  3.0
Efficiency             0.30 1/sec        10,000                                        3.0
0.69 1/sec        10,000                                               6.9
1.00 1/sec 2/     5,000                                                      5.0
1.00 1/sec r/      5,000                                                           5.0
1.00 1/sec _/      5,000  _ ___ 5.0   _
Total Irrigation Requirements                     7.2   4.3   7.4   7.7   0.6   3.0   3.0   6.9   5.0   5.0   5.0
1/  These water quantities are available at least eight years out of ten.  The proposed irrigation schedule is
sufficiently flexible to enable the irrigation of 10,000 ha, even in years when supply falls below the above values.
2/  The consumptive use is estimated at 1.00 1/sec/ha as a maximum requirément for a dry-season crop.  Between January
and August water supply is always much in excess of irrigation requirements.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
1.  Data used in assessment of irrigation demand:
(a.)  Overall irrigation efficiency from intake structures on the rivers   6h%
(b)  Pre-irrigation water requirements:
Raising the groundwater level by 500mm - 125mm of water
+ eva.poration - effective rainfall:
in September/October, 125+82-0   207-nm - 3,2h0m3/ha - 1.2h 1/sec/ha
in November,           125+80-20   185mm - 1.21 1/sec/ha
in December,           125+70-70 - 125mm - 0.75 1/sec/ha.
(c) Flooding pre-irriga.ted soils - water requirements:
Sa.turation of soil = 100mm of water
lOOmm of water on surface   lOOmm of water + evaporation - effective
rainfall:
in November, 100+100+80-35   2h5mm - 3,84Om3/ha. - 1.21 1/sec/ha
0.64
(d)  Flooding dry soils - water requirements:
Raising the groundwater level by 500mm u 125mm of water
Saturation of soil                         lOOmm of water
lOOmm of water on surface
+ evaporation - effective rainfall:
in December, 325+70-70 = 325mm - 5,100m3/ha = 1.95 1/sec/ha
(e) Consumptive use - water requirements:
+ evaporation and/or evapotranspiration - effective rainfa.ll:
in Janua.ry, 0.06 1/sec/ha
in Februa.ry, 0.30 1/sec/ha.
in Ma.rch, 0.30 1/sec/ha
in April, 0.69 1/sec/ha



ANNEX 7
Page 3
2. Assumptions Used in Assessing Water Supply and Preparing Irrigation Schedule:
(a)  Water for the project would be supplied from five relatively small
rivers - the Sahabe, Sahamilahy, Sahamena, Behengitra and Bemarenina -
which enter the project area along its western boundary. Their
combined watershed covers some 1,700 km . Two of the rivers, the
Sahabe and the Sahamilahy, account for 80% of the supply.
(b) Records have been kept of rainfall in and around the project area
for 21 years. Flow measurements, however, have been recorded for
a period of only seven years for the two larger rivers and five years
for the three smaller ones. Because actual flow measurements vere
made for such a relatively short time, reliability of data is greatly
reduced, which is especially important for the critical four-month
period at the start of the irrigation season. Design flows are there-
fore taken conservatively, at lesst until sufficient additional data.
become a.vailable.
(c)  The available flow in September wauld be used for the pre-irrigation
of some 5,800 ha. The flow in October would be used for the pre-
irrigation of an additional 1,200 ha, the balance of the flow to be
used to make up evaporation losses in areas pre-irrigated in Sep-
tember. In November, the first 5,800 ha. pre-irrigated would be flooded.
The flow in November would be sufficient to make up the evaporation
losses on the 1,200 ha pre-irrigated in October. In December the
available flow would allow the flooding of the 1,200 ha pre-irrigated
in October, making up consumptive use losses on the 5,800 ha flooded
in November and flooding the remaining 3,000 ha that had not been
pre-irrigated. In eight out of the ten years, a.ll the rice paddies
would have been put under water by the end of December, and available
flows, starting from January to the end of the rice season, would be
used to cover crop consumptive uses only. In exceptionally dry years,
the flooding operation would be completed during the first half of
Jaruary.
(d)  The available water quantities are always in excess of water require-
ments for a. dry-season crop grown on half the project area.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC  LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SURFACE WATER HYDROLOGY
SAHABE  RIVER                                                                     SAHAMENA  RIVER,                                                               BEMARENINA  RIVER 
HYDROLOGICAL.  YEARS                                AVE.  MIN.                      HYDROL.OGICAL   YEARS                           AVE.   MIN.                      HYDROLOGICAL   YEARS                            AV. MIN.
MONTH   -                                                                         FLOW FLOW  -- -                    ---FL-OW  FLOW -                                                               -                        -~F~LOW  FLOW
1964/49 1949/S0 1950/S1 1951/52 1952/SI 1913/Sd 1954/53 19S1/36 1906/17  .3/  ~ /   1949/50 1950/51 1901/S2 1952/S3 1953/04 1954/55 19S5/56 193ff/1  mi?s  m3/s  1949/50 4950/51 1951/52 4952/33 1903/541954/SS  195/56 1956/17 mi/l               m/
JUL.              7 20   S.67   13.10  12.34    7.91   1070    8.66       -      9.42    5.67   1.86   1.74    2.07   2.835   0.42    1.29    1.82         -     1. 72_  0.42    0. 31   0.40 _ 1.134 _ 0.77   0.47    0.60                       0.66   O 3s
AUG        -      05.81    5.37   11.60  16.39    8.02   6.23   11.63    -        9.01    5.37   1.19   1.29        --    2.49   0.4 2    1.21_  _1.75      -     1.39    0.42   0.44   0.37   I OS    0.58   0.97    0.92           -                  67   0.37
SEP      -        .2     4.87    6.29  10.47    7.04    S.18    8.49      -      6.84    4.87   1.77   1.17        -     2.20   0.39    0.9 4    4.58      -     1. 34    0.38    0. 27   0.27   0. 46    0.SS5   0. 38    0155     -                 41   0.27
OCT_   1.1 8C.05    4.40    6.30   7.24à   4.87    5.79    1 45            -      0.40    4.40    1.2 0   1.2 7          1.96   0.36    0.65    1.54       -     4.16    0.36   0.14   0.69   0. 47    0.63   0.20    0.38 a-                     0. 48    O 20
NOV      98.41    S.0   10.38   24.60  17.91   10.52    6.54    6 36  14. 60  11.70    s 00   1. 37   1.50         -      2.61            0. 54    1.76    1 .97   1. 63    0. 54   1 .00   0.92   1. 21    1.16    0.3 3    0.b3    -       -     0 94    0.S3
DEC     20.24    5 .33    5.80   4 7.70  28.50    -    48.30   40.2 S  48.90   26.96    1.33    1. 69   1.23    4.78   3 .20              $ . 00    2.04    2 .96   2.26    1.20   0 59   0.60   1. os    2 36      -      2 le6    -       -          49   0.19
JAN      9 .13   12 .40   77.91   86.90  20.42     -     21.60   30.64  17.568  34.93    9.13    2.10    3. 70    3.03   3 25             3.150    2.57    2 .36   2.93    2.10    1.39   1.26   4. 77    2.90_    -        .1                        38   1.~39
FEB    3 5.32   35. 60  26.01   93.47  19.3 4     -     22.70   70.41 5 7.21   41.00   19.54    23.S2   4. 77   3.-68   3 64      -      2.150    3.150    2 .89   3.36    2.10    2. 67   2.1 5   7.153    .1.77_           3     -        -     41      2.11
MAR  . 02,9    19 .00  47.17   70.36  35.66              50S.90   215.93  84.6 3  48.21   19 .30   23.3   4.40    3 9 0   3 .43    -      2.30    2.4 7   2 .86   3.12    2.30    1. 31   3. 76    S.1 a     71     -      7.04     -       -      5.21    1.31
APR    40.8a   13.96   39.80   1 9.83  20.71   1 4.4 0   19.90    -       -    24.42   13.96   1.-79       -     1.6 7   0.2WF   1.432   2. 32     -       -     2.29    0.27   1. 01   4. 27   4. 39    S.24    2.01       -       -       -     2.77   4. 01
MA~Y    1 7 .12    6.64   24.70   1 4.9 5  10.1 0  112. 30  14i.14              1  14.21  16.64   4.87   2.11    5.80   0.32   4.34    2.35         -       -    4. 97    .32    0.51    4.14   1.43    0.70O à84           -                       .5     0.11
JUN      9.        .7 48          36    86        22       .8      -10.71   1 .87   2.07   2.40    3 14   044   4  6                      21                       .3     04      0.4 4   4 .39   1. 03    0.46   0.69      -       -       -      0. 70   0.4 4
AVERAGE             0.     2.4     34.    j6.~3            1372.                           10-.5     .                      2.2             1. 9                   20       14      0.9     1. 6    2.15    2.                                       1.8     0.
SAHAMILAHY  RIVER                                                                   BEHENGITRA  RIVER
JUL       -          80    1.20    --  T3.5 2    2.4 3   2.24    2.14   2.9 6    2.12    1.20      -      0.60    O 21   0.49   O 54    0. 46                     0.46   0.21
AUG        .      1 .13    .14     -.    2.6      3.2 9    1.99    2.60   2.4 8    2.2 6    1.14   0.18    0.4 3   -      O 41   0.2 5    0.4 6     -       -     0.4 2   0. 25
SEP              1.28    1.04    2.61   2.453   2.4 6   1.83    1.96   2.1 7    1.9 3    1.04   0.2 6   0.4 0      -     0.40   0.1 0    0.46 ô                  0.3 2   0.40
OCT      1 .29    1.2 6    0.93    2.2 0   2.11    2.0 0   1.16    4.-62   4.65    1.63    0.92   0 09    0.13     -     0.30   0.20    0. 46       -      -      0.31    0 09
NOV      2.35    1.33    1.99    4.115   4 1 4    4 96    1.16    1. 61   2.83    2.44    4.3 3   4.11i   0.8 3    -         44   0.53    0.1       -             0.62    0.44
DEC      8.06    1.34    1. 23    3.32   6.40      -      5.21    4.85   5.4 5   4 .11   1 1.23   0.1 4    O à 9    O 26  _0 70    -      0.9 6                   0.159   0.1 4
JAN      2.38    3.81   16.15    9.17   6.12       -      3.4 2    1.36   3.62    6.34    2.2 à    -      1.9 4i1.0 8   O 94       -      0.8e2    -       -      1.20    0.a82
FE8     a8.81    8.90    S.S3   12.43   6.53 2           1.21    7.21   8.49    7.89    1. 24    1 .52   0.62      Il 67 434       -     0. 72     -       -     4.147    0.6 2
MAR    13.0       4.92   40.02   40,84  10.16      -      6.33    1.27 19.77    8.77    4 en   0.50   O 67    0.8 1. 35             -     I 44     -       -      0.94    OSO5
APR    10 .0      3.97    -       4315   6.23    3.1 6   3.63    4.80      -      5. 34    2.97   0.39    0.31    0.40   0.98   0.40       -        .      -     0.49   O 3l
MAY      4 .39    4.41     -       .56   5.4 9    2.6 4   3.07    4.15     -      1.1     44         51   0.0     03       .7 0.59          --                    0. 42    0 .20    .                                                                                >
JUN       24      1.5      -      4.59   4.4 4    2.S4   Z.&5    3.341             .1     4.1 01          0.21i O 41        a 80O 14        -       -       -     0.51    0.24                                                                                     nz
AVERAG_              .                       .               .       .               .       .              0.64           07                                      0.4      0.7                                                                IBRD-4707 (3R>






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
WORK ITEM                         1971               1972       |       1973                1974                1975                1976
_________________________RAIN         I       91% :/R  N/       /RAJiN/      I     ;5 RIN;;3    I       4A~J              7  I/3    //.IN,/ | ;
~~~////         Z///  ////          z/////z      'zz //Z     '///         //Z /.         '//// Z//z/        '/,/
A. CIVIL WORKS                       77            ''/, ",,           Z/z ,,"            ",/  ///,           '//   //            '//  /,"             ""
REHABILITATION OF CANAL P I   ,",              ,, /,/              ",, ",  « ' ,   ,                      ",,  ,,,             ",  ,,             ,,'/
LOW LEVEL CANAL                  ,,            ,,'   ",,",  "                         Z//  Z//            '/  /,/             'Z/  Z//z
,',,         ,',z z//z           Z//z z//           zzz  /z//,          'zzz z,,,          'zzz  ,,,'           'z//,
RECONSTRUCTION OF EXISTING    $        a$' z           //          Z//  Z//            Z//z //,/          -zz  z,             'zz  ,,"            ",,
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
EXTENSION OF IRRIGATION          ,,            ,, ,                      ,                  ,,,,           , /  /,   ,,',,
AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM                   $**::X:  Z                         ~z      .w*:  :   //              Zz//''/z//
EXCAVATION OF MAIN DRAIN          "z // /, Z, /,/ ",,                                  Z/Z ,/Z/           '/  //              'Z/  //,'
B. ON-FARMA DEVELOPMENT WORKS   ,//Z              //// /,,/           Z//  Z//           '/// Z/Z             ,,' z/,            ',,  /"             ',//
Z//Z         Z//  Z//            Z//  //Z/          "/// Z//,           ,'Z/Z  Z//Z         'z//Z z'z,         'Z//z
1,600 HA,,",,                              " "        ,        ,           ,,"'",,,,,,                                                 ',
1, 700 HA                           ///,  Z//Z ,//'  Z//                   Z    Z//Z           zz z//z'           'z,z   ,
1, 850 HA",,,,,,",,,,,,,                                                                ", ,,, ",,,
z/Z,          Z//z Z/            Z//Z Z//Z           Z//Z  Z//Z         '//Z Z//Z           'Z//  //,,,',
1, 750 HA            ,,,,,    ,                         ,,,,                ,,,'                 ',,           "          ,             '
C. EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM ,, ,,,, ,,",-, ,,,,-, " "
Z//Z         Z//Z''' /z/ r ','' z//Z                Z//  Z//Z           '/// Z//Z           'z//z zzz'         'z"/       >
z/ZZZz//Z  Z//LX:...w.......:......z/Z    Z/Z  Z//.Z// .  '/   z/  . .      '/Z.Z.Z/
Z//Z         Z S//Zs 1 Z//Z      Z//Z  oZ//Z        Z//Z z//Z.          'Z/Z Z//Z. «,             z/Z1f,,"  B 4 3, 'z//z
z/ZZZ  Z//Z Z//Z  Z//Z Z//Z  Z/Z z//z.         'Z/z zzzz.RD-:7:::3R):::






ANNE[ 9
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estima-tes
FMG                      US$
(millions)                 (t000)
Local Foreign  Total      Local Foreign Total
A.  Civil WIorks                           353.1  625.8   978.9       1,270  2,250  3,520
Rehabilitation of Pi Cana.i           22.9   46.3    69.2         82    167    249
Rehabilitation and Extension
of Low-Level Ca.nal
Cana.l excavation                     5.4   11.4    16.8         19      41     60
Diversion dam, Sahabe River           8.6   18.9    27.5          31     68      99
Control structures                    4.9    9.9    14.8         18      35      53
Draina.ge                             0.8    1.7      2.5          3      6       9
Subtatal     19.7   hl  .9      h         71   150 15   2
Reconstruction of Existing
Irrigation System (4,000 ha)
Irrigation canals                    1.5    3.2      4.7          5     12     17
Drainage ca.nals                      5.6   11.5    17.1          21     41      61
Control structures                   15.6   31.5    47.1          56    113    169
Subtotal      22.7   46,2       .9I 1!     i             F7
Extension of Irrigation-
Drainage System (6,0oo ha)
Irriga.tion canals                   52.6  106.6   159.2         189    383    572
Drainage canals (on 8,000 ha)        87.2  177.1   26h.3         314    637    951
Control structures and bridges       88.3  179.2   267.5         318    645    963
Subtotal    228.1   62.9   61.0          UÉ2  1e6      71 2,486
Excavation of Main Drain              59.7   28.5    88.2         215    102    317
B. Engineering, Supervision and
Contract Documents                      52.8  107.2   160.0         190    386    576
Note:  Cost estimates for civil works include cantingencies of 10% for price
increases on equipment.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates (cont'd)
FMG                       US$
(millions)               (th ousands)
Local Foreign  Total    local  Foreign  Total
0ti-farm Development works 1/                                         116.7   165.4   282.1        420    595    1,015
Ph   Phasq  Pha~i   Total
I_~,  II'  IIW/  per ha
Cost/ha in             Total          j2.7] 4 3        09246
Salaries Iocal Personnel       i ,h543  1,068    79B   3,319   22.8     -       22.8       82      -        82
Salaries Management Personnel 1,404  1,621    672   3,697    6.4    19.1    25.5           23      69       92
Fuel, Oil                      1,046  1,650    223   2,919    7.7    12.4    20.1          27      45       72
(including spares)            2,618  2,896  1,231   6,745   26.1    20.4    46.5          94     73       167
Amortization of Equipment       2,923  5,543  1,473   9,939   18.5    50.0    68.5          67    180      247
Preliminary Studies and                               7,277    705    42.7   50.2          27    154       181
Sirveys 5/                      -                     ,200   248    42.7    40.2          29    159       148
Complementary Investments 6/    -        -      -     6,ooo   24.8    16.5    41.3         89     59       148
Miscellaneous Expenditures?7    -        -      -     1,050    2.9      4.3      7.2       il      15       26
1/  Calcula-ted on a per-ha basis:  as from 1972, 6,890 ha   will be developed in the ensuing h years.  Fixed costs
have been based on a SOMALAC work prograin for on-farm developnent totaling  3,000 ha  annually.
2/  Clearing, plowing, harrowing.
3/ Leveling,  planing.
17/ Contours, farm canals.
&/  Cadastral surveys, parcellation plans, topographic stu.iees.
É/  Storage facilities, housing personnel.
7/ Transportation, insurance.
Note: differences due to rounding.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates (cont'd)
FMG                        US$
(millions)                 (thousands)
Loca1  Foreign   Total     Local1 Foreign  Total
D.  Operation and Maintenance
Equipment-'/                          60.0    i6h.0    221..0      215      590     805
E.  Extension Services2/                 165.3      61.0    226.3       594     220      814
F. Studies and Experiments
Village Construction Study          13.0      7.0      20.0       47       25      72
Experimental Program for Crop
Diversification_/                   13.3     51.9      65.2       48      186     23h
Subtotal     26.3      58.9     85.2        95      211     306
G. Contingencies
Civil Works-/                      101.2    175.7    276.9       36h      632      996
On-farm Development Works_/         22.7     31.9      Sh.6       82      115      197
Subtotal    123.9    207.6    331.5        4h6      7h7   1,193
GRAND TOTAL                              898.1  1£389.9  2,288.0    3,230    ,999   8,229
1/  Including equipment for excavation and maintenance of main drain (c.i.f. cost,
FMG 56 million or US$ 201,000) and equipment for the experimental program for
crop diversification (c.i.f. cost, FMG 12.8 million or US$ 46,000).
2/  Extension service costs during built-up period, 1971-75.
3/  Including buildings for the experimental station, vslued at FMG 8.9 million
(US$ 32,000).
/  Main drain, 35%; all other items, 25%.
5/  Purchase equipment, 10%; studies and surveys, complementary investments and miscel-
laneous expenditures, 20%; all other items, 25%.
Note: Differences due to rounding.






ANNEX 10
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements,2
lst Quarter    2nd Quarter    3rd Quarter    4th Quarter
1970                                                   _               _
1971
FMG million        1,385.2        1,385.2         1,385.2         1,054.1
US$ '000          5,000.0         5,000.0         5,000.0         3,800.0
1972
FMG million          723.0          709.0           692.2           433.0
US$ t0Q0           2,600.0        2,550.0         2,490.0         1,56o.o
1973
FMG million          195.0          190.0           186.0           111.0
US$ 'Ooo             700.0          680.0           670.0           400.0
1974
FMG million           36.0            36.0           36.0            30.0
US$ '000             130.0           130.0          130.0            83.0
1975
FMG million           25.0            25.0           25.0            10.0
US$ 'ooo              69.0            69.0            69.0           27.0
1976
FMG million           -              -
US$ '000
1/  Figures shown are the estimated undisbursed balance of the credit at the
end of ea.ch quarter.  It is estimated that the credit agreement would be
signed in August 1970 and the credit would become effective in December
1970. Disbursexrents would follow expenditures with a la.g of about three
months. The closing date of the credit is June 30, 1976.






ANNEX 11
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economie ra.te of return on the project has been calculated as-
suming that:
(a)  project construction, including civil works and on-farm
development, would be completed in 5 years;
(b)  yields of paddy on irrigated fields would increase from
1.1 tons to 3.5 tons per ha over a 15-year development
period; and
(c)  off-season cropping would start after 5 years and with
intensive promotion by the extension service, would ex-
pand to about 50% of the irrigated area at the end of the
development.
With incremental production from the project valued at expected world market
prices and all current expenditures for extension services and maintenance
work included, the rate of return to the economy would be about 11% (page 2
of this Annex).
2.        The rate of return has been tested a.gainst the uncertainty that the
more important project parameters such a.s project cost, completion time of
construction work, yields, prices and off-season cropping would develop as
expected. Va.rying levels for ea.ch parameter were a.ssumed, bearing in mind that:
(a) contingencies up to 35% of the cost of civil works may not
be required;
(b) yield increase of 2.6 tons of paddy per ha over a 15-year
period could be exceeded;
(c)  projected paddy prices might turn out to be slightJy higher
if pressures to satisfy domestie requirements of better-
quality rice should increase as expected;
(d) the cost of rice production may be higher than anticipated; and
(e) off-season crppping could develop at a. slower pace and not
reach an a.creage as large as 50% of the irrigated area
within 15 years.
3.        The tests showed that if 3,000 ha would be double-cropped instead
of 5,000 ha, the rate of return would be 9.1%. A change of 10% in the farm-
gate price level for paddy would a.ffect the rate of return by about 0.6%. A
10% lower level of construction costs for civil works or a. yield increase of
3 tons of paddy per ha instea.d of the projected 2.6 tons would ea.ch bring the rate
of return up to 11%. When different levels of each parameter were used in com-
bina.tion, the tests indicated a rate of return ranging between 9.3% and 12.3%.



M&L&GASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Bensfit Streams
Cost Stream_                                                   Benefit Streami
Civil Works
lhgineering &  On-Fanu * Ectension O & M  Studies and  Total    Increnental  Increm. Produc. Total Incr. Inereneltal  Total
Year  Su,ervision* Development Services  Costa Experimental/ Cost   Rice Production Off-Season Crons Production  Prod. Cost  Benefits
-------------v --    minion s
1971     675.7         -           22.4   8.1       12.7     718.9          5.9               -            5.9         1.0        4.9
1972     532.8        95.6         32.1  13.4        4.4     678.3         61.3               -           61.3         2.5       58.8
1973     207.3        92.8         47.7  17.6        4.3     369.7        123.7               -          123.7         5.2      118.5
1974                  91.5         56.1  20.0        4.3     171.9        157.1               -          157.1         8.5      148.6
1975                  86.8         68.0  22.5        4.3      181.6       194.6               -          194.6        12.6      182.0
1976                               64.8                       87.3        262.8              2.2         265.0        17.4      247.6
1977                               63.1                       85.6        285.4              4.4         289.8        21.1      268.7
1978                               55.4                       77.9        302.9              6.5         309.4        23.6      285.8
1979                               53.9                       76.4        312.2              8.7         320.9        26.2      294.7
1980                               53.9                       76.4        317.2             10.9         328.1        26.8      301.3
1981                               45.2                        67.7       319.1             21.8         340.9        29.7      311.2
1982                               41.0                       63.5        319.9             43.6         363.5        35.5      328.0
1983                               34.2                       56.7        320.3             65.4         385.7        41.3      344.4
1984                               25.7                       48.2        317.7             87.2         404.9        46.1      358.8
1985                               19.3                       41.8        317.2            109.0         426.2        52.9      373.3
1986                               19.3                       41.8
1987                                8.4                       30.9
1988                                8.4                       30.9
1989                                                          22.5 
2011                                      22.5                22.5        317.2            109.0         426.2       52.9      373.3
Rate of Return: 11%
1  One-third cf the cost of tu crop diversificatlon prograa bas been aUlocated to the project area.
Including contingencies.                                                                                                                      ,tI



MAP 1
4à. 
DiSgo Sucera                         MALAGASY   REPUBLIC
I                                LAKE ALAOTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOCATION MAP
TAANARIVE
fSv J   Aescam Lesg/                            
F<7n';t;~~~~~~~~~ -&^rtt  -''/f 
|/anarantsoG  li                                    Y     5  ;/ /
ulocir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0Imèrivr atd, so  
& $ R R  R  Lrt Rt   k   9     j
a paraforavola -  -t
tt    t  L  Rf   R  R  t  ir  t  t    # 1
5vPSK É ~ SOMALAC
'-J  * o             b t t t     '*IRAM
ttt  MR  *~, M t 1GRONOMIC
R ~J ~-'STATION
TSARASAOTRR          MAf    R               S1
Manokombahiny
M) tMÀ   RRM o       AM BATONDRAZAKA
ZAdiIana, I                     ij>)>h     \
IRRIGATION SCHEMES
0  ii*  RICE MILLS
*     RAIN GAUGES
ROADS
LIMIT OF THE PLAIN
O 10 20    40    60                                        Rt
KILOMETERS                                                  MARSHLAND
JULY  1970                                                                         IBRD  2773RI






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LAKE ALAOTRA PROJECT PC. 23
PROJECT LAYOUT                                        -              MAP 2
~~~~--            '-  -'  ,_    4!R
)AAI.sSR                                        - _S-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ._t  --                -                                  --- -. ~- i--  l
-935 4, O AMPARAEANINA          CI    /RI-GE
/A.  197                                                                                                            IBR  2774R1AssEwA>K  
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.PE  AREA   X*
2   E§t   ag,|«whdb    Ak    \          As---~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~R & SEODR 1-GAI. CANAIS (NE $«'`  IN R}n 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIS                                        \DIVERSIONI  D 
/`                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.ITV -b                                    ,ARS E
JU, 19.                                                                                                                IR 2774Rl



