CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 214 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 17, 1970


﻿CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 214 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
0
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 17, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1970, between MALAGASY REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to obtain financial assistance from Fonds d'Aide
et de Coop6ration, an agency of the French Government, part of which will assist
in financing technical assistance and extension for the Project;
(C)   The Borrower has, by Decree No. 61-359 dated July 12, 1961,
established the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale du Lac Alaotra;
(D)   The Borrower has entrusted to Soci6t6 Malgache d'Amenagement du
Lac Alaotra by Decree No. 66-013 dated January 5, 1966 the responsibility of
carrying out the program of agricultural development of the Aire de Mise en Valeur
Rurale du Lac Alaotra, pursuant to a cahier des charges approved by Decree No.
66-014 dated January 5, 1966, as such cahier may be amended to reflect the
provisions of this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the area known as "PC 23" Prim&tre de
Colonisation 23, located  in the southwest quadrant of the Lake
Alaotra depression, near the junction of the Sahabe and the Sahamilahy
Rivers, and defined in the Borrower's Decree No. 61-359 referred to
in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(b)   "AMVR" means the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale du Lac Alaotra
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 61-359 referred to
in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(c)   " BNM" means Banque Nationale Malagasy de D6veloppement, a soci6t6
financiere et de cr&dit d'int6r&t national of the Borrower, established
under the Borrower's Law No. 61-029 of October 18, 1961 and
pursuant to Statuts published in the Borrower's Journal Officiel on
February 9, 1963;
(d) "FMG" means Malagasy Franc in the currency of the Borrower;
(e)   "GR" means G6nie Rural, the Rural Engineering Services of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f)   "Private estate owner" means the owner of an estate of about 900
hectares located within the Project Area; and
(g)   "SOMALAC" means Socit6 Malgache d'Am6nagement du Lac Alaotra,
a societM d'conomie mixte of the Borrower, established pursuant to
Decree No. 61-126 dated March 9, 1961 and to Statuts adopted on
February 15, 1963, and includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable ser-i-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
*        withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15   and  October 15   commencing    October 15, 1980  and   ending
April 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of
the Project, and shall cause SOMALAC to carry out Parts F, G and H of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to SOMALAC such amounts as shall
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of Part H of the Project.
(c)   Without in any way restricting or limiting its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause BNM to lend to SOMALAC,
for the purpose of the Project and at the annual rate of interest usually practiced
by BNM for such category of operations, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $700,000, of which an amount equivalent to $400,000 for on-farm development
equipment shall be lent for a term of five years, and the remaining amount
equivalent to $300,000 for FMG expenditures for on-farm development shall be
lent for a term of fifteen years.
Section 3.02. In order to ensure adequate overall coordination of all aspects
of the Project, the Borrower shall promptly establish, and thereafter maintain, at
least until completion of the Project, a Project coordination committee which shall
include high ranking representatives of the Central Development Service (Service
Central de Mise en Valeur) of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, of
GR and of SOMALAC; which shall have the authority, the staff and the resources
necessary to enable it to fulfill such function; and which shall propose concrete
recommendations to the Borrower in respect of any difficulties or problems
encountered.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the planning, design and
supervision of the Project works, and in the procurement of operation and
maintenance equipment for the Project, the Borrower shall employ or continue
to employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The design of the irrigation and drainage networks included in the
Project shall be in accordance with sound and generally accepted engineering
practices for peat soils.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for tile Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the: Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary


﻿7
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
(except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion, and all operation and maintenance equipment so financed
shall thereafter continue to be used primarily in the Project Area.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
procurement and construction schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, and shall cause GR and SOMALAC
to maintain, records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of SOMALAC and, in


﻿8
respect of the Project, of GR and of any other department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause copies of the records maintained by GR
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, in respect of operations related to the
Project, to be sent annually to the Association not later than six months after
the end of the year to which they relate.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause SOMALAC to: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SOMALAC and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. In the design and operation of the irrigation and drainage works
included in the Project, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
necessary in order to safeguard, within the Project Area, the top layer of peat
soil existing in March 1970.
Section 4.03. The Borrowc-r shall ensure that no irrigation development other
than the Project shall take place upstream of the rivers supplying water to the
Project Area, and that no pollution of the waters of such rivers shall be permitted
which might have an adverse effect on the agricultural development of the Project
Area.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall distribute or cause to be distributed
to farmers, in plots of about four to five net cultivable hectares, the land located
in the Project Area which is managed by SOMALAC, as and when the irrigation
and drainage works affecting such plots are completed.
(b)   Such distribution shall be in the form of a contract acceptable to the
Association to be entered into by the Borrower, SOMALAC and each farmer in
respect of each such plot, which shall provide, inter alia, that each such farmer
shall pay to SOMALAC annual charges over a period normally of fi'ceen years,
and upon completion of such payments, shall become the owner of such plot.


﻿9
Section 4.05. In respect of the provision by SOMALAC of extension services
in the Project Area, the Borrower shall:
(a)   enable SOMALAC to employ and retain competent Malagasy personnel
for key positions, pursuant to a schedule agreeable to the Borrower and the
Association, by offering to such personnel salaries or other benefits commensurate
with the increased responsibilities and more difficult living and working conditions
prevailing in the Project Area;
(b)   cause SOMALAC to provide to the Association adequate information
relating to the experience and competence of the individuals proposed to be
appointed to such key positions before effecting such appointments; and
(c)   cause SOMALAC to continue to provide such extension services after
completion of the Project during a period of fifteen years, and the Borrower shall
provide such services thereafter.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause SOMALAC to operate and
maintain all irrigation and drainage works in the Project Area until a date fifteen
years after the completion of the Project.
(b)   The operation and maintenance equipment to be procured under
Category III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be assigned to SOMALAC for use on
the Project during such period. SOMALAC shall lease the excavators included
therein, complete with operators-trainees and accessory equipment, to the
contractor responsible for the construction of the main drain and the terms and
conditions of such lease shall be specified in the civil works contract entered into
between the Borrower and such contractor.
(c)   After the date referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, the operation and
maintenance of all such irrigation and drainage works shall become the responsibility
of GR, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall pay to SOMALAC in each year an amount
such that, together with the aggregate amount collected by SOMALAC in that
year from the annual charges referred to in Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement,
SOMALAC shall be able to:
(i)         cover the cost of providing extension services in the Project Area
under Part G of the Project and under Section 4.05 (c) of this


﻿10
Agreement and of operating and maintaining the irrigation and
drainage works pursuant to Section 4.06 (a) and (b) of this
Agreement; and
(ii)        amortize, over a period of 15 years, the cost to it of land
acquisition and of on-farm development (including finanv;i.
charges) in respect of the Project Area.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall collect or cause to be collected from
the Private estate owner and from farmers after becoming owners of land pursuant
to Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement, a maintenance fee equal to the pro rata
cost of operation and maintenance i- the Project Area per hectare per year, and,
during the first fifteen years following the date of this Agreement, the proceeds
of such collection shall accrue to SOMALAC.
(b)   The Borrower shall collect from    each farmer a betterment levy
(participation a la valorisation dcs terres irrigu6es), starting in the year in which
each farmer becomes the owner of a plot of land within the Project Area pursuant
to Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement and ending twenty-five years thereafter,
and such levy shall be in such amount per hectare per year as shall be required
to enable the Borrower to recover, from all farmers in the Project Area, over a
period of twenty-five years, the aggregate cost (excluding interest) of all capital
investments in the irrigation and drainage works included in the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial conditions of SOMALAC
and, in respect of the Project, of GR and any other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿0                                   11
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of SOMALAC and, in respect
of the Project, of GR and any other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿12
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, th6 Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the coordination
committee referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall have been established
and representatives of the Central Development Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture of the Borrower, of GR and of SOMALAC on such committee shall
have been designated.
Section 8.02. The date November 16, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.05 (c), 4.01
(a) and (c), 4.04, 4.05 (a) and 4.06 of this Agreement shall terminate on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic


﻿13
Cable address:
Minfin
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jules A. Razafimbahiny
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.   Civil works,
including buildings
for the experimental                             84% of total expendi-
station                      2,900,000           tures
II.  Engineering and                                  84% of total expendi-
supervision services           500,000           tures
III.  Operation and
maintenance equipment,
including equipment for
the experimental station                         100% of foreign
and the excavators             590,000           expenditures
IV.  Experiments on crop
diversification and
rural development                                90% of total
study                          200,000           expenditures
V.   Unallocated                    810,000
TOTAL        5,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political
subdivisions on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by the percentage
set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above would exceed
the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to
ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿16
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any of the
Categories I, II or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the agricultural development of the Project Area and consists
of the following parts:
A.    The rehabilitation of the main canal and drainage works on about 4,000
hectares presently irrigated.
B.    The construction of irrigation, drainage and road networks on about
6,000 hectares of newly reclaimed areas and the construction of a
drainage network on about 2,000 hectares to be dry-farmed.
C.   The construction of the main drainage outfall toward Lake Alaotra.
D.    The provision to SOMALAC of equipment for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works in the Project Area.
E.   A rural development study in the Project Area.
F.   The implementation of on-farm development works on about 7,000
hectares.
G.    The provision of agricultural extension services in the Project Area.
H.    Carrying out a program of experiments in crop diversification.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to the goods and services included in Categories I and III of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in paragraph I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, items to be procured shall be grouped together whenever
practicable for the purposes of bidding in amounts sufficient to attract international
competitive bidding as specified in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, provided,
however, that contracts for such minor items or groups of items as are expected
to cost not more than the equivalent of $5,000 need not be submitted to
international competitive bidding so long as such minor items or group of items
shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $50,000.
2.    In respect of any contract for civil works expected to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 and in respect of any contract for the procurement of
operation and maintenance equipment expected to cost less than the equivalent
of $10,000, the approval of the Association is not required before execution but
conformed copies of such contracts will be submitted to the Association promptly
upon their execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.
3.    In respect to all other contracts for civil works or for the procurement of
equipment included in such Categories I and III, the procedures outlined below
are to be followed:
(a)   Not less than one month before invitations to bid are issued, a copy
of such invitations, and the draft forms of contract, of specifications
and of other bidding documents, together with a complete description
of the international advertising procedures to be used, will be submitted
to the Association for approval.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed and before a contract is
awarded, a copy of the analysis of bids together with the
recommendations of the engineering consultants and the proposals for
the award stating the reasons for such proposals will be submitted
to the Association for approval.
(c)   If the proposed final contract is to differ substantially from the terms
and conditions contained in the documents approved by the


﻿19
Association under (b) and (c) above, a copy of the text of the proposed
changes will be submitted to the Association for approval before the
signature of the contract.
(d)   Promptly after the signature of each contract, two conformed copies
thereof will be sent to the Association.
(e)   If during the term of a contract there is any change or addition which
is in excess of 10% of the original value of such contract, a copy
of the proposed amendment to the contract, or of the proposed
variation order thereunder, will be submitted to the Association for
its approval.
4.    Contracts for procurement of operation and        maintenance equipment
(including the excavators) shall, where appropriate, require the provision of fully
experienced technical personnel to supervise the assembly of the equipment for
a specified period of time. The cost of providing this service, including
transportation, subsistence, and all other associated costs, shall be a separate item
of the equipment bid.
5.    The civil works contract which includes excavation of the main drain shall
*        provide that the excavators included in such Category III, with operators-trainees,
will be leased to the successful bidder by SOMALAC on an hourly basis. The
rate to be charged and the conditions of the lease should be specified in detail
in the bidding and contract documents relating to such contract.


