Report No. PID7375
PID7375.TXT
Project Name                     Albania-Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                           ECA
Sector                           ECSPE
Project ID                       ALPE55160
Borrower                         Government of Albania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard
Tirana, Albania
Tel:     (355-42) 284-05
Fax:     (355-42) 284-94
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           May 11, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        February 11, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March 1999
Projected Board Date             June 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      The collapse of the financial pyramid scheme triggered a large scale
civil disturbance in early 1997. A new government was elected in July 1997
and, with the help of the donor community, reestablished macroeconomic
control through a post-crisis recovery program. However, weak governance
capacity and continued political tensions culminated in the crisis in
September 1998. The September 1998 turmoil was short lived and there was no
major setback in either the macroeconomic stabilization or the momentum of
economic recovery. The domestically financed fiscal deficit remained about
6.6 percent of GDP, inflation was kept at 8.7 percent, while the current
account deficit remained at less than 8 percent of GDP. The exchange rate
continued to be stable and foreign reserves were about 4.5 months of imports.
GDP is projected to have registered a real growth of about 8 percent in 1998.
The conflict in Kosovo and the massive influx of refugees posed a new crisis
for the Government in March 1999. The Kosovo crisis is inflicting enormous
costs on the Albanian economy. In addition to putting strains on the
economic infrastructure, it is disrupting the supply and distribution of
commodities and could lead to a reduction in foreign and domestic investment
The Country's Adjustment Program
2.      The Government's economic program seeks to build on the macroeconomic
and structural achievements made thus far while it moves ahead on completing
the reform agenda--in particular the governance and institutional reforms
that are essential to strengthening the capacity of the public sector and to
implementing the reform program itself. The ultimate objective is to put the
economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growth as a means of increasing



employment, decreasing poverty, and reducing the risks of further social and
political tensions stemming from the poor economic condition of the
population or from weak administrative institutions.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
3.      The proposed SDR 33.2 million (US$45 million equivalent) Credit would
support the Government program described above. The main objective of the
Credit would be to back the Government's efforts toward the restoration of
sustained growth and improved living standards through reforms that enhance
government functioning and also strengthen the environment for more efficient
private sector development. Governance and institutional reform would be the
backbone of the reform program supported by this Credit. The reform would
underpin the implementation of other reforms and would assist the Government
in establishing more efficient institutional arrangements for making
strategic policy decisions and for being accountable for their
implementation. The Credit will be disbursed against satisfactory
implementation of the adjustment program in compliance with the agreed
tranche release conditions.
Implementation
4.      The proposed SAC will be made to Albania as represented by the Ministry
of Finance. The Credit will be released in two tranches: US$20 million
following Board presentation and US$25 million on fulfillment of the specific
second tranche release conditions within six months of the release of the
first tranche. The Credit would have a 40-year maturity including a 10-year
grace period. The Government will ratify the Credit before it becomes
effective. An inter-ministerial work group, chaired by the Ministry of
Finance and including sector ministries affected by the SAC, would be
responsible for the coordination of the activities and the implementation of
the SAC.
Poverty Category
5.      The proposed SAC will have an important effect on poverty, since it
will support growth objectives in a stable environment as well as measures to
improve productivity in agriculture and to reform the social insurance
framework. The low levels of inflation will prevent further erosion in the
real living standards of the poor. The objectives of improving public
administration and management of resources will make possible improvements in
the cost effectiveness of those Government social programs that are
especially important for the poor.
Benefits and Risks
6.      The actions under the SAC will aid fiscal adjustment and will ensure
the sustainability of the reform process by strengthening the institutional
infrastructure needed to improve the public sector's capacity to carry out
its role effectively and efficiently. The SAC's actions will also encourage
private sector development by accelerating reform in key structural areas.
By enforcing prudential measures in the banks, the program will improve the
efficiency and functioning of the banking system, which is essential for the
growth of the real sector. By reducing public sector recourse to the banking
system, the SAC will allow more resources for private sector investment. The
-2 -



SAC measures would also provide a positive signal to international
institutions and investors regarding the Government's commitment to reform.
7.      Institutional and governance reform is inherently risky.    Any number of
contingencies could divert attention from, and could thereby sidetrack or
even derail, the process of building the institutional infrastructure
necessary for improved public sector performance. This is, particularly the
case if hostilities in Kosovo continue over a prolonged time period or if
they draw Albania into an open military conflict. The continued influx of
refugees into Albania will also put excessive pressure on the economy and
would run the risk of derailing macroeconomic stability. Domestically, the
failure to consolidate political power and ensure internal security could
carry the risk of another eruption of civil disorders and could derail the
program. Such risks are heightened by the limited credibility and authority
of the Government. And internal security could become a major constraint to
economic recovery and could potentially discourage private investment and the
flow of external resources. The other important risk would be failure to
maintain macroeconomic stability, which would result in high inflation and
interest rates. Lack of political commitment could delay fiscal adjustment
and the implementation of structural reforms and could also impede the reform
process of the pension system. Implementation could also be undermined by
weak institutional and governance capacity. Poor coordination among the
ministries involved is a further risk that could adversely affect the
program's implementation.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mansour Farsad, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.    (202) 473-2963
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2751
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 21, 1999.
- 3 -



