Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7303-ALB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.2 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
May 11, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = LEK
US$1 = 144
ALBANIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC  - Albania Mobile Communications
AT - Albania Telecom
BFM      Budget Framework Memorandum
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU - European Union
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
GDSR - General Directorate of State Reserves
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Association
IMF - International Monetary Fund
NAP  - National Agency for Privatization
NCB  - National Commercial Bank
NGO      Non-Government Organization
PHARE - Poland and Hungary: Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PHRD - Poverty and Human Resources Division
SAC  - Structural Adjustment Credit
SIGMA - Support for Improvement in Governance and Management
SIPAR - State Institutions and Public Administration Reform
SMEs - Small- and Medium-Size Enterprises
VAT  - Value-Added Tax
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann, ECC02
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Team Leader: Mansour Farsad, ECSPE



ALBANIA                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Government of Albania
Amount:                     SDR 33.2 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                      The Credit would have 40-year maturity including a 10-year grace
period.
Objectives and Description:  The main objective of the Credit is to back the Government's efforts
toward the restoration of sustained growth and improved living
standards through reforms that enhance government functioning and
also strengthen the environment for more efficient private sector
development. Governance and institutional reform would be the
backbone of the reform program supported by this Credit. The
reform would underpin the implementation of other reforms and
would assist the Government in establishing more efficient
institutional arrangements for making strategic policy decisions and
for being accountable for their implementation. The Credit will be
disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program in compliance with the agreed tranche release conditions.
Benefits:                   The actions under the SAC will aid fiscal adjustment and will
ensure the sustainability of the reform process by strengthening the
institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public sector's
capacity to carry out its role effectively and efficiently. The SAC's
actions will also encourage private sector development by
accelerating reform in key structural areas. By enforcing prudential
measures in the banks, the program will improve the efficiency and
functioning of the banking system, which is essential for the growth
of the real sector. By reducing public sector recourse to the banking
system, the SAC will allow more resources for private sector
investment. The SAC measures would also provide a positive
signal to international institutions and investors regarding the
Government's commitment to reform.
Risks:                     Institutional and governance reform  is inherently risky.  Any
number of contingencies could divert attention from, and could
thereby sidetrack or even derail, the process of building the
institutional infrastructure necessary for improved public sector
performance. This is particularly the case if hostilities in Kosovo
continue over a prolonged time period or if they drew Albania into
an open military conflict. A continued influx of refugees into
Albania will also put excessive pressure on the economy and run
the risk of derailing macroeconomic stability. Domestically, failure
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



to consolidate political power and ensure internal security could
carry the risk of another eruption of civil disorders and could derail
the program. Such risks are heightened by the limited credibility
and authority of the Government.  And internal security could
become a major constraint to economic recovery and could
potentially discourage private investment and the flow of external
resources. The other important risk would be failure to maintain
macroeconomic stability, which would result in high inflation and
interest rates.  Lack of political commitmiient could delay fiscal
adjustment and the implementation of structural reforms and could
also  impede  the  reforni process  of the  pension  system.
Implementation could also be undermined by weak institutional and
governance capacity.  Poor coordination among the ministries
involved is a further risk that could adversely affect the program's
implementation.
Schedule of Disbursements:   The Credit will be released in two tranches: US$20 million
following Board presentation; and US$25 million on fulfillment of
the specific second tranche release conditions within six months of
the release of the first tranche.
Poverty Category:             The proposed SAC will have an important effect on poverty, since it
will support growth objectives in a stable environment as well as
measures to improve productivity in agriculture and to reform the
social insurance framework.  The low  levels of inflation will
prevent further erosion in the real living standards of the poor. The
objectives of improving public administration and management of
resources will make possible improvements in the cost effectiveness
of those Government social programs that are especially important
for the poor.
Project ID Number:            AL-PE-55160
Map:                          IBRD No. 28467R
This Credit was prepared by an appraisal mission which visited Albania during March I - 12, 1999.
The mission consisted of Mansour Farsad (Team Leader), Gary Reid (Governance and Institutitonal
Reform), Alma Kanani (Public Expenditures), Sandra Bloemenkamp (Judicial Reform), Onno Ruhl
(Privatization), Tunc Uyanik (Financial Sector), Severin Kodderitzsch (Agriculture), and Aleksandra
Posarac (Public Pensions). The staff of the Resident Mission, Greta Minxhozi and Madalene
O'Donnell, also participated in the preparation of this Credit.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
ALBANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Economic Performance ................................................................I
A.  Early  Achievements .................................................................I
B.  Emergence of Difficulties and the Government Response ..................                                    ......................2
C.  Prospects for Sustained Growth ............................                           .....................................4
II. The Government's Economic  Program                                 ................................................................6
A. Stabilization Program: Maintaining a Macroeconomic Framework
for Stable Growth ..............                     ...................................................6
B.  Structural Reforms: Achievements and Challenges Ahead  ................. ......................6
1. Reducing  Demand on the State Institutions                            ......................................................8
a.  Complete Privatization  of Enterprises and Banks .......................................9
b.  Reduce Public Sector Activities and  Interventions ................................... 10
2. Strengthen  State Institutional Capacities                              ..1.................................. 11
a.  Strengthen  Core Public Sector Functions .................................................. 12
b.  Strengthen  Public Service Provision  Functions ........................................ 15
c. Strengthen Public Institutions Supporting Private Sector Development ... 19
III. The Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit ................................................................  23
A. Objectives ................................................................                                                  23
B. Relation  to the CAS ................................................................. 23
C. Implementation  Arrangements ................................................................                                24
D. Benefits and Risks ................................................................                                          25
IV.  Recommendation  of the President ..........................                               ...................................... 26
Boxes:
Box 1:             Government Anti-Corruption Program
Tables:
Table 1:    Core SAC Measures
Annexes:
Annex I:    Letter of Development Policy
Annex II:   Policy Reform Program Matrix
Annex III:  Key Economic Indicators
Annex IV:  Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex V:   Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex VI:  Country at a Glance
Map:                 IBRD No. 28467R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
ALBANIA
1.    Albania faces an extraordinarily difficult set of challenges. It is one of the poorest countries
in Europe and has some of the weakest institutional capacities to meet basic governance demands,
including the rule of law and the provision of basic public services. At the same time, the Kosovo
conflict and the sudden surge of refugees has placed extraordinary demands on its public sector to
provide basic infrastructure and public services. While international relief efforts are helping to
meet the emergency demands, the Kosovo crisis still threatens to destabilize Albania's already weak
institutional and governance capacities.
2.    In light of this difficult situation, the Government has devised a program  aimed at
consolidating the stabilization and structural reform gains achieved to date and strengthening the
prospects for sustained economic growth in the medium term, while simultaneously building
institutional capacity to meet not only the basic needs of its citizens but also the additional demands
posed by the Kosovo crisis. However, a number of deeply rooted institutional problems, including a
weak state structure, threaten this prospect. The spillover effects of these problems emerged in the
form of civil disorders in 1997 and to a lesser extent also in 1998. In both instances the Government
was able to restore stability and continue with the task of restructuring the economy. Those events,
however, are symptoms of broader structural problems stemming from poor governance and the
weak capacity of public institutions to formulate and implement policies and to discharge functions.
The Government intends to address these long-delayed fundamental and pervasive problems so that
it can complete the structural reform agenda and ensure its sustainability. The proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit would support the Government's program in these areas.
I. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Early Achievements
3.    With the change in the political and economic regime in 1990, Albania experienced a severe
social and economic crisis during 1990-92. The initial impact of this change led to a sharp fall in
output by 40 percent, a rise in inflation to 240 percent, and a sharp rise in unemployment to nearly 27
percent in 1992.
4.    Faced with this deteriorating economic situation, the country launched a vigorous program of
stabilization and structural reforms in the following three years, despite the fact that such measures
posed serious short-term  risks.  The stabilization policies allowed the country to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances and to bring down the rate of inflation. The structural measures were
aimed at a rapid transformation of the economy and included the privatization of virtually all shops,
small enterprises, and agricultural land, the abolition of almost all price controls, the unification and
floating of the exchange rate, and the liberalization of the trade and payments regime. These policies
allowed the GDP to turn around quickly and grow by 9 percent annually during 1993-95, enabled the
unemployment rate to drop from 27 percent in 1992 to 12 percent in 1995, and also enabled inflation
to decline to 6 percent in 1995. At the same time, large inflows of external concessional aid and



- 2 -
grants and private transfers from Albanians abroad helped contain the current account deficit and
rebuild the foreign exchange reserves.
B. The Emergence of Difficulties and the Government Response
5.     In 1996 the macroeconomic situation started to deteriorate with the slippage of stabilization
policies, eroding most of the progress Albania had made in this area since 1992. Fiscal revenues
dropped by more than 5 percent of GDP as tax collection efforts weakened owing, among other
factors, to the end of the war in Bosnia, and with it, taxes on activities related to the re-export of
petroleum products to Yugoslavia. With foreign aid also diminishing, the domestically financed
fiscal deficit soared to nearly 11 percent of GDP.1 Inflation accelerated to 17 percent and the current
account deficit deteriorated to over 9 percent of GDP. Fueled by the surge in Albanian private
transfers, the pyramid schemes expanded enormously with nominal liabilities reaching nearly 50
percent of GDP. Much of the increase in GDP growth (9 percent) was driven by the excessive
increase in the aggregate demand and activities financed through the pyramid schemes.
6.     The collapse of the financial pyramid scheme triggered a large scale civil disturbance in early
1997. Rioting quickly turned into a state of anarchy, leading to general insecurity and disruptions of
economic activities and the functioning of the Government. In the first half of 1997, the exchange
rate depreciated by over 40 percent and inflation soared to over 28 percent. Customs and tax
revenues also suffered, which led to a fall in fiscal revenues. On the external front, international
trade slowed markedly as the volume of both exports and imports dropped, remittances declined, and
the foreign aid stopped.
7.     A new government was elected in July 1997 and, with the help of the donor community,
reestablished macroeconomic control through a post-crisis recovery program (see below). The
Government's first response was to contain the fiscal deficit, increasing the VAT, strengthening tax
and customs administration, and freezing budgetary wages. These measures helped limit the
domestically financed fiscal deficit to 11 percent of GDP. With a tight monetary policy, inflation
moderated to 11 percent in the second half of the year and the national currency (the lek) recovered
half of its lost value against the dollar. Foreign exchange reserves were preserved at around 4.5
months of imports. However, because of a sharp decline in remittances, the current account
deteriorated from 9 percent of GDP in 1996 to 12 percent in 1997. Although other structural
measures moved slowly, important steps were taken to wind down the pyramid scheme and to
reform the banking system.
8.     During its 14 months in power, the Government could not make much progress in
consolidating political stability and in reducing the conflicts between opposing political parties. The
situation led to civil unrest in mid-September 1998, paralyzing the country for a brief period. The
Prime Minister was forced to resign and a new government took office in early October 1998 and
was able to quickly regain control of the crisis.
I      The focus on domestically financed deficit rather than total deficit reflects in part the fact that most external
assistance to Albania has had a direct import component, and also reflects in part the extremely weak data on
foreign-financed spending.



- 3 -
9.    The September 1998 turmoil was short lived and there was no major setback in either
macroeconomic stabilization or the momentum of economic recovery. Macroeconomic targets,
agreed with the IMF for 1998, were broadly met. The domestically financed fiscal deficit remained
below the targeted 6.6 percent of GDP for the year as a whole. In addition, the implementation of a
prudent monetary policy kept inflation at 8.7 percent, while the current account deficit dropped to
about 6 percent of GDP, reflecting a slowing down in imports in the aftermath of the unrest and
larger than expected transfers from abroad. The exchange rate continued to be stable and foreign
reserves were still about 4.7 months of imports. GDP registered a real growth of about 8 percent in
1998.
10.   The conflict in Kosovo and the massive influx of refugees posed a new crisis for the
Government in March 1999. By early May, close to 410,000 refugees from Kosovo had entered
Albania with no end in sight. The Government's initial response led to a diversion of public
expenditures to the refugee crisis as international relief agencies were making preparations to
respond. The Government, therefore, used its own fiscal resources to provide immediate assistance.
This unforeseen use of fiscal resources put immediate pressures on the budget and crowded out
resources for essential public functions at all levels of Government. The Government was forced to
postpone or limit budgetary expenditures in many areas. Investment expenditures were frozen, the
planned salary increase of the government employees was delayed, and limitations were imposed on
the operations and maintenance expenditures of all ministries except for public order and health.
The Government recognized that discretionary expenditures of this magnitude could potentially
undermine financial and fiscal control mechanisms and lead to misuse of funds. Therefore, it made
an explicit decision to stay within the approved budget limits, and the funds diverted for relief were
appropriated to the respective line ministries according to normal procedures. However, it soon
became clear that the Government could not continue its normal functions and reform efforts without
additional budget assistance. Therefore, it requested support from the international community, not
only for the relief effort but also to help maintain momentum in the reform program to which the
Government remains fully committed. IDA provided its assistance through the Public Expenditure
Support Credit (see below).
11.   The Kosovo crisis is inflicting enormous costs on the Albanian economy. In addition to
putting strains on the economic infrastructure, it is disrupting the supply and distribution of
commodities, particularly in the northern part of the country.  With confidence of investors
remaining low, the crisis could lead to a reduction in foreign and domestic investment, hence lower
economic activity, and could slow down the process of privatization and structural reforms.
Moreover, the good progress on the stabilization front could be disrupted as a consequence of this
crisis. Apart from the problems associated with the Kosovo crisis, the Government also faces other
serious challenges inside the country. The security situation remains unstable as criminal elements
are becoming more visible in urban areas. Also, the opposition Democratic Party continues to
boycott the Parliament.
12.   Despite these problems, the Government has remained firmly committed to continue with its
economic reform program.  As an indication of this commitment it has continued with the
implementation of the stabilization measures agreed with the IMF before the Kosovo crisis (see
below). In addition, it has publicly committed itself to a serious institutional and structural reform
program and has requested that the IDA to support this program with a Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC).



- 4 -
C. Prospects for Sustained Growth
13    Under the current circumstances, it is extremely difficult to make reliable forecasts or
projections of economic developments in Albania. Given the uncertainty of the situation, the
estimates for 1999 and beyond are merely preliminary and will be modified as the situation evolves.
The scenario presented below is based on the assumption that the Kosovo refugee crisis will last
throughout 1999 and that incremental financing requirements for the balance of payments and
refugee related budget support will be provided by the donor community. Since Albania does not
have direct trade links with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the impact of trade disruption on
Albania's economy is projected to be minimal and after the refugee crisis is resolved trade activity is
assumed to return to normal.
14.   Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. In view of the larger expenditures needs associated
with the Kosovo crisis, pursuing non-inflationary budgetary financing is a prerequisite for the
continuation of macroeconomic stability in Albania. All humanitarian relief needs are expected to
be provided by the international relief organizations. The Government is expected to play an
important role in administering the relief assistance through the budget. The current account deficit
is expected to rise from 6.1 percent of GDP in 1998 to 11.7 percent of GDP in 1999 as a result of
higher imports arising from the Kosovo crisis and the restructuring needs. The current account deficit
is projected to drop to around 7.5 percent in 2001 and to more sustainable levels in the following
years. Inflation is expected to be further reduced to about 7 percent in 1999 and to 3 percent in 2001.
Reaching these targets requires limiting the domestically financed fiscal deficit to 5.5 percent of
GDP in 1999 and to a more sustainable level of around 3 percent in 2001. Reform of the
administration of the public sector is critical to strengthening public institutions so that stabilization
and structural measures can be effectively implemented.
15.   Improving the Savings Investment Balance. The deterioration in the economic situation in
1996 combined with the 1997 crisis caused substantial losses for the economy and led to a
significant dissaving, particularly in the public sector. The expenditures related to the Kosovo crisis
are expected to increase the current expenditures from 26 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 28
percent of GDP in 1999. However, increasing public savings must be the central focus of the
Government's economic strategy to allow increases in public investment from its current low level
of 5 percent of GDP. The increases in government savings are expected to come mainly from fiscal
adjustment and improvements in fiscal management (see Section II, below) which would reduce the
size of current expenditures in GDP to about 22 percent by 2001. A more efficient functioning of the
financial markets and a more certain environment for foreign investors will permit gross domestic
fixed investment to increase from 16 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 19 percent in 2001 (tables on
macroeconomic projections are presented in Annex III).
16.   Resuming Sustainable Growth. Prospects for continued growth in the next couple of years
hinge on the speed with which the refugee crisis is resolved in 1999 and the extent to which the
economy is able to adjust and absorb this shock. Given the possible interruptions in the supply of
raw materials and domestic production output growth is projected to slow down slightly in the next
couple of years. As the situation returns to normal, output growth is expected to sustain around 7-8
percent a year in the medium term. The growth is expected to result mainly from higher capacity
utilization. As this utilization is gradually exhausted, investment in new capacity will play an
important role in sustaining growth in the medium term. In this process, the maintenance of law and
order and the satisfactory progress of the reform program would be crucial to regaining the



- 5 -
confidence of investors. A sustained resumption of growth and employment in the economy also
hinges on removing constraints on growth in various sectors. This would improve their production
efficiency and would contribute to a slowdown in imports. In addition, the sustainability of growth
requires increasing exports to international markets. Given the country's proximity to the rest of
Europe and its low-cost labor force, export-oriented manufacturing is expected to play an important
role in supporting growth. The openness of the economy has put market pressure on improving
domestic production and costs and will ultimately result in increasing Albania's production
efficiency and export capacity.
17.   Capital Requirements. In the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis, Albania will need substantial
amounts of foreign savings to complete its economic reform program and assure the growth of
output and investment. In the short term, the required investment cannot be financed by domestic
savings alone because of their low levels. Thus, external financing would be needed to fund the
required investTnent and to maintain a prudent level of international reserves.
18.   Between 1999 and 2001, the gross external financing needs are estimated at about US$1.2
billion. These resources are necessary to finance US$1.1 billion in non-interest current account
deficits, US$95 million in debt service payments, and US$50 million in increases in international
reserves. Private sources are expected to contribute to about one-fifth of the overall financing
requirement during this period. The remainder is expected to be provided by bilateral sources and
multilateral institutions. To date, private flows (excluding transfers) have not played a significant
role in financing Albania's external deficit. However, foreign investment is expected to pick up in
the medium term as the interest of strategic investors in the privatization program and business
opportunities in Albania begins to grow again. While Albania's access to commercial credit has
been limited, as its external position improves and confidence in its economy grows, commercial
sources of financing may become available. Until that time, the bulk of external resources will
continue to come from official channels but at a declining rate.
19.   Although Albania's medium-term and long-term debts are expected to increase in the next
few years, much of the debt will remain concessional. Total debt outstanding will amount to about
29 percent of GDP in the next couple of years. The ratio of total debt service to exports will range
between 4 and 5 percent during 1999-2001.



- 6 -
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC PROGRAM
20.   The Government's economic program seeks to build on the macroeconomic and structural
achievements made thus far while it moves ahead on completing the reform agenda-in particular
the governance and institutional reforms that are essential to strengthening the capacity of the public
sector and to implementing the reform program itself. The ultimate objective is to put the economy
on a path of rapid and sustainable growth as a means of increasing employment, decreasing poverty,
and reducing the risks of further social and political tensions stemming from the poor economic
condition of the population or from weak administrative institutions.
A. Stabilization Program: Maintaining a Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth
21.   Following the 1997 crisis and the deterioration of macroeconomic stability, the previous
Government took steps rapidly to avoid further deterioration. The IBRD, the IMF, and the donor
community also moved quickly to assist in the preparation of a recovery program outlining priority
areas for policy reform during the post-crisis period. The first stage of this program involved the
implementation of a set of initial measures to stabilize the economy and prevent further deterioration
of domestic and external accounts. As mentioned before, the implementation of these measures
restored macroeconomic stability. The second stage involved a set of macroeconomic and structural
measures to be agreed with the IMF under an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
arrangement.
22.   In May 1998 the IMF approved a three-year ESAF to support the Government's economic
program for 1998-2001. The Government has recently requested a second year arrangement under
the ESAF to support its program. The program aims at consolidating stabilization and structural
reform policies. The stabilization program is ambitious, focusing particularly on fiscal adjustment to
reduce inflation and to ensure fiscal sustainability. It is aimed at cutting the domestically financed
fiscal deficit from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to 5.5 percent in 1999. This is expected to be
achieved by supporting policy measures on both revenue and expenditures. The revenue measures
envisage harmnonization of excise tax rates on domestic and external goods as well as a wide range of
measures to improve tax and customs administration.  On the expenditure side, selective
expenditures (for example, personnel) will be cut while those on public investment will increase.
These measures are expected to reduce the Government's financing needs, allowing for greater
availability of domestic and foreign savings to the private sector to promote investment and growth.
With the continued tight monetary policy, inflation is projected to drop from 8.7 percent in 1998 to 7
percent in 1999. The current account deficit, which is expected to widen initially from 6.1 percent in
1998 to 11.7 percent in 1999, will decline to 7.5 percent in 2001. With this program, Albania
expects to maintain foreign exchange reserves to about 3.5 months of imports.
B. Structural Reforms: Achievements and Challenges Ahead
23.   Implementation to Date. During the initial phase of its economic transformation (1992-96)
Albania liberalized the economy and removed most administrative distortions. Price controls and
restrictions on trade and foreign investment were mostly eliminated. A new revenue system,
including a modem VAT system, was established while fiscal expenditures were redirected. In the
financial sector, central and commercial banking activities were separated and basic monetary
instruments were introduced. Most small enterprises were privatized and their movable assets were



sold, while a new legal framework for private ownership was established. In addition liberal trade,
price, and marketing regimes were maintained in agriculture.
24.   With the disruption of economic activities and the structural reform program, an intensive
dialogue on the causes of the crisis and the needed policy measures began between the authorities
and the Bank during the second half of 1997. This dialogue culminated in the preparation of a one-
tranche fast disbursing Rehabilitation Credit to support the first set of structural measures designed
to address the basic economic causes of the 1997 crisis. At the top of this agenda was the resolution
of the pyramid schemes as a prerequisite for stabilization and economic recovery. Development of
these schemes was attributable mainly to an inadequate and poorly enforced legal and regulatory
framework, including that for the banking sector. The Rehabilitation Credit supported Government
measures to wind up the pyramid schemes and take the initial steps to reform the banking sector so
as to minimize the recurrence of such schemes.
25.   The implementation of measures supported by this Credit has been substantial. In addition to
measures taken prior to Board presentation, major achievements were made in 1998 to bring the
remaining pyramid scheme companies under the full control of foreign administrators to liquidate or
auction their assets for return to the depositors. In the banking sector, a new law to strengthen the
independence of the Bank of Albania went into effect in January 1998 and liquidation of the loss-
making Rural Commercial Bank was completed. A new Banking Law which is designed to prevent
illegal activities and allows deposits only be financial institutions was approved by Parliament in
June 1998. In other areas, an enterprise privatization strategy was prepared which allows the sale of
small and medium enterprises through auction and the privatization of large enterprises and utilities
to strategic investors. In addition, steps were taken to reduce overstaffing in the public sector.
26.   Agenda for the Future. Perhaps the most important challenge facing the Government is the
institutional and governance reform needed to build an accountable and transparent state that has the
capacity to govern within an adequate and improved legal and judicial framework. The 1997 crisis
brought into focus the inherent problems in Albania's economic governance capacity and the
inability of the Government to enforce its laws and regulations. The Kosovo conflict and the influx
of refugees it has occasioned puts an additional strain on Albania's already weak public institutions.
Substantial progress in these areas is fundamental to improving the capacity of the public sector to
meet the demands of the citizens as well as to enhance private sector development.
27.   Albania's weak institutional and governance capacity, including its inability to enforce its
laws and regulations, reflects a myriad of factors which can be grouped into three broad categories:
limited resources; weak and inadequately transparent accountability mechanisms; and inadequate
institutional infrastructure. Limited resources, which are expected to continue for the foreseeable
future, force the Government to take a realistic approach to reform. Weak and inadequately
transparent accountability characterizes core public management functions, including financial
management and personnel management. It also characterizes the management and implementation
of public policies and programs in Albania, including the delivery of essential public services.
Moreover, it characterizes the formulation of public policies themselves: the accountability of
Parliament and Government to the electorate is weak, despite the formal democratic structures and
institutions that already exist. Inadequate institutional infrastructure is evidenced most significantly
in organizational structures that fail to create strong incentives for coordination, efficiency, and
responsiveness to the citizenry, and public employment conditions that make it difficult to attract
qualified and motivated human resources to the public sector.



- 8 -
28.   To address these weaknesses, the Government intends to complement its previous efforts by
undertaking structural institutional reform measures having two broad objectives: (i) reducing
demands placed on the institutions of the state; and (ii) strengthening institutional capacities and
building more transparent and accountable state institutions. This approach aims to strike a sensible
balance between breadth and realism. The two pillars of this strategy should foster growth by
building a more robust private sector (e.g., by privatizing various public enterprises) while
simultaneously strengthening public institutions that support private sector development.
29.   Corruption is both the cause and consequence of weak public institutions and these two
problems have to be addressed in tandem. Complementary to the above strategy, the Government's
"Anti-corruption Action Plan" seeks to build a broad web of institutional capacities and their
attendant incentives, which, as a set, can be expected to encourage public officials, citizens, and
businesses to be less willing to countenance corrupt behaviors.
30.   It is important to recognize that observable improvements in governance in Albania will
materialize only slowly and fitfully, in view of the substantial and pervasive nature of the underlying
problems. The recent surge in demands being placed upon the state and its citizens by the influx of
Kosovo refugees can be expected to exacerbate these difficulties. More important, institutional and
governance capacities depend fundamentally on informal norms of behavior, which can be
influenced only slowly, as the entire set of institutional incentives that shape behavioral norms
gradually changes. While the immediate impacts sought by the Government's strategy are modest,
the strategy is bold in recognizing that institutional and governance capacity improvements require
interventions in a wide variety of complementary arenas. The strategy aims to create a set of
mutually reinforcing institutional reforms. While no single reform element may be expected to yield
significant and sustainable impacts on institutional and governance capacities, the full set of reforms
should lead to a more accountable and responsive institutional fabric, in which more competitive,
transparent, and accountable institutions within the public and private sectors are mutually
reinforcing, rendering their benefits sustainable and likely to increase, albeit slowly.
31.   The reform program of the Government, which is discussed below, contains measures that
would allow the Government to begin building these essential institutional and governance
capacities. Those measures that are supported by the SAC are outlined in the draft Letter of
Development Policy (Annex I). The SAC will support key policy measures of this program that have
already been implemented before the Board presentation of this operation (identified below by
[Board], or that are expected to be implemented before second tranche release (identified below by
[Second Tranche]. These core policy measures are summarized in Table 1 in Part II.
1. Reducing Demand on the State Institutions
32.   An important element of the Government's strategy for strengthening state institutions is a
set of actions aimed at reducing the demands placed on the institutions of the state while at the same
time enhancing competitive forces within the private sector. It will do this by: (i) completing its
enterprise and banking sector privatization programs; and, (ii) eliminating functions that can more
efficiently be undertaken by the private sector and reducing its interventions in private markets. By
helping to create a more dynamic and competitive private sector, these actions should reinforce the
institutional strengthening actions encompassed within the second broad element of the
Government's strategy. In particular, these actions should help both to create a wider set of options



- 9 -
for producing public services and to engender attitudes and expectations within civil society that
demand transparent, responsive behavior by public agencies and their staff.
a.     Complete Privatization of Enterprises and Banks
33.   In the early stages of transition, Albania made substantial progress in the privatization of
enterprises. Privatization slowed down in 1996 and subsequently stopped as disputes mounted
regarding the ownership of the land and buildings of the privatized enterprises. The privatization
process accelerated significantly with the Parliament's approval of the Government Privatization
Strategy in March 1998. The Strategy provides for an auction-based sale of all remaining SMEs,
allowing the sale of state shares to either the private partner or the private sector and foreign
investors. It also permits the sale of enterprises in strategic sectors (telecommunications, mining, oil
and gas).
34.    SME Privatization. A second round of privatization is now under way with the objective of
completing the privatization of SMEs through an auction program in 1999. The National Agency for
Privatization, which has extensive implementation experience under the old privatization process, is
in charge of implementing the new program. Under the current SME privatization program, 200 of
the remaining 469 SMEs have been privatized or liquidated and files of another 135 enterprises have
been submitted to the National Agency for Privatization [Board]. By the second tranche, the
Government plans to auction the rest of the SMEs with the exception of enterprises in the defense
and cultural sectors [Second Tranche].
35.   Strategic Privatization. As a first step in expediting strategic privatization, the Government
has adopted a privatization strategy for the telecommunications and petroleum sectors and has
passed legislation to liberalize the mining sector. In early November 1998 it also established an
inter-ministerial committee for strategic sector privatization. The Government is now ready to move
forward with the privatization of these sectors and, with the assistance of the IDA and financing from
the Government of Italy, it has selected a financial adviser for the sale of the main enterprises in
these sectors. While the Government's work with the financial advisers is well under way, the
current circumstances in the region, in particular the Kosovo conflict, create significant obstacles for
the privatization of strategic enterprises. The political uncertainty in the region could make the sale
of important assets impossible, or at best could severely depress the sale price.
36.   Although the Government intends to continue its strategic privatization program, the timing
of actual sales needs to be kept under review as the situation in the region evolves. In this respect,
the input of the financial advisers, who are in direct contact with the market, will be very important.
The first enterprises to be put up for sale will be the two telecommunications enterprises, Albania
Mobile Communications (AMC) and Albania Telecom (AT), in that order. The first steps toward
privatization of these companies have already been taken: the Sector Policy Paper, the specific law
on telecommunications privatization, and the Government decision on tender procedures for
strategic sector enterprises have all been submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration. In
addition, the audit of AMC, part of the due diligence for the tender process, is currently under way
[Board]. The SAC will support bringing AMC (the cellular network telecommunications company)
to the point of sale by issuing a tender for proposals. The SAC will also support formulating strategy
for the privatization of AT (the fixed network communications company) with financial advisers and
bringing AT to the point of sale by issuing a tender for proposals from strategic investors.



- 10-
37.   For the two mining sectors-chromium and copper-the process has been initiated by the
restructuring and conversion into joint stock companies of the two main enterprises, Albkrom
(chromium) and Albbaker (copper). This has led to splitting 66 small chromium mines and 15
copper mines off of the main enterprises. The SAC will support the completion of the privatization
or liquidation of the 66 and 15 small chromium and copper mines [Second Tranchel. The petroleum
company, Albpetrol, would be split up into three joint stock companies and a temporary holding
company. For the remaining enterprises of Albkrom and Albbaker, privatization strategies and a
timetable for implementation will be developed by the inter-ministerial committee for strategic
enterprise privatization based on the advice of the financial advisers.  The SAC will support
Government approval of a strategy for the privatization of Albbaker, Albkrom, and Albpetrol,
including a timetable.
38.   Privatization of State Banks. Over 80 percent of the banking system's assets are held by the
two state-owned banks, the Savings Bank and the National Commercial Bank (NCB). A third state
bank, the Rural Commercial Bank, was liquidated in December 1997. The state-owned banks have
been incurring significant losses mainly owing to their large, non-performing loan portfolios. To
complete privatization of the state banks, the Government has selected a strategic investor for the
NCB [Board]. The Government will finalize the sale and ensure that a new license from the Bank of
Albania is issued to NCB [Second Tranzlche].
39.   The Government is also in the process of defining the strategy privatization of the Savings
Bank. A Governance Contract has been signed which is aimed at containing losses and possible
spin-off, or full compensation for services rendered to the Treasury. A foreign bank is providing
support for the implementation of the Governance Contract. The Governance Contract does not
allow any lending through the Savings Bank until it complies with the capital adequacy related
requirements of the Banking Law. The objective is to prevent the Savings Bank from accruing
additional losses due to its loan portfolio. The management of this bank is working closely with the
foreign advisers to identify the cost of services rendered to the Treasury and to define the strategies
for the bank's privatization. The SAC will support the process of operational and administrative
restructuring of the Savings Bank with the final objective of privatizing this bank.
b.    Reduce Public Sector Activities and Interventions
40.   Within the framework of institutional and governance reform, the Government is aiming to
further redefine the role and responsibilities of the state in the economy by eliminating activities that
are either non-essential or are likely to be more efficiently undertaken by the private sector. A
program of functional reviews of Ministries, now under way, is intended to deal with this task.
41.   As a first step in this direction, the Government has considerably reduced its role in the
public administration of food security policies by reducing the scope of operations of the General
Directorate of State Reserves (GDSR), which is responsible for acquiring, managing, and disposing
of strategic reserves. As part of this effort, GDSR wheat inventory levels were reduced to around
8,000 tons in March 1999 from around 15,000 tons in October 1998. In addition, the Government
reformed the Winter Cereal Assistance Program to the northern districts in the fall of 1998 by
substituting the delivery of wheat supplied with cash advance transfer to recipients under the social
assistance program in these districts. The outcome of this re-designed assistance program in the



- 11 -
northern districts is to be reviewed by the Government during 1999 and the lessons learned are to be
reflected in the implementation of the reform program during the winter of 1999/2000.
42.   To reduce the potential negative impact of food aid imports on agriculture incentives
Government will sell general purpose food aid imports (not targeted to refugees) to the private sector
shortly before arrival in Albania through auction-type mechanisms and will allocate the proceeds to
the budget. Food aid imports potentially reduce domestic prices for agriculture products, and hence
depress the incentives for Albanian farmers to supply the market. Given the scale and emergency
nature of the crisis it is expected that GDSR will retain in the short term some involvement in the
process of distributing humanitarian relief aid to refugee centers as well as in the process of selling
general food aid imports to the private sector.
43.    To reduce the demands placed on public institutions, the Government will continue to refrain
from re-introducing instruments of agriculture price support on agriculture products, further to
abandoning far-reaching interventions in wheat and flour in mid-1996. Albania has established a
largely distortion-free incentive framework for the agriculture sector, in which price interventions are
absent and trade is fairly open. To reduce intervention in private markets and maintain such a
distortion-free incentive system, the SAC will support the Government's intention to refrain from re-
introducing price intervention and increasing import tariffs on agriculture and food products beyond
their September 1998 levels and will aim to reduce the overall import protection through the
introduction of a new tariff structure with only three tariff bands in 1999. To minimize the potential
negative impact of large scale food aid imports, the SAC will also support continued selling of
general purpose food aid imports (not targeted to refugees). In order to increase the transparency and
accountability of the operations of the GDSR in the immediate term, the Government will disclose
the full 1998 audit report of the GDSR (including its recommendations), and will prepare an action
plan (which will also be disclosed to the public) on how it intends to implement the
recommendations of that audit.
2. Strengthen State Institutional Capacities
44.   The Government's program aims at strengthening the functions that the public sector must
undertake, such as ensuring the rule of law (including the establishment and enforcement of property
rights), providing basic public infrastructure, providing basic social services and protections, and
protecting externally threatened resources such as the environment. To meet these needs, the
Government aims to lay the basis for more competitive, transparent, and accountable institutions
within three distinct sets of functions: core functions, selected key public service provision functions,
and public institutions supporting private sector development. Core institutional capacities to be
strengthened include: (i) human resource management, (ii) public expenditure management, and (iii)
policy formulation and coordination. Key public service provision functions to be addressed include:
(i) legal and judicial institutions required to ensure the rule of law, and (ii) the public pension
system. Public institutions supporting private sector development whose institutional underpinnings
are to be made more transparent and competitive include: (i) the financial sector, and (ii) land
markets.



- 12-
a.     Strengthen Core Public Sector Functions
45.   The Government is deeply committed to furthering Albania's public administration reformn
process. It has publicly committed itself to a reform of its core public sector institutions, which it
enunciated in Albania: On the Road to Stabilization and Development, during an international
conference in Tirana in October 1998. As part of its program, the Government is planning further
reductions in the size of the workforce and has recently launched a process of functional reviews of
ministries. To build institutional and governance capacities, the Government's program is focusing
on the following three tasks: (i) creating a civil service; (ii) strengthening public expenditure
management; and (iii) strengthening policy formulation and coordination capacities and
accountability. In addition, the "Anti-corruption Action Plan" provides a complementary vehicle for
strengthening many of these same core government institutions.
46.   To address civil service reform, the Government program includes: (i) revising the Civil
Service Law, so as to lay a firmer foundation for an independent, merit-based, competitively
recruited civil service; (ii) creating an independent Civil Service Commission, with centralized
responsibility to create a professional, merit-based, highly skilled, depoliticized civil service; (iii)
strengthening the capacity of the Department of Public Administration to support that Civil Service
Commission as well as to support more professional human resource management throughout the
public sector; (iv) revising policies governing the conditions of employment, including salary
structures; (v) strengthening central payroll and personnel monitoring capacities within the
Department of Public Administration; (vi) monitoring the impacts of civil service reforms; and (vii)
providing the Council of Ministers with an annual assessment of those impacts and
recommendations for further improving civil service and human resource management perforrnance.
47.   To strengthen public expenditure management, the Government program  includes:  (i)
undertaking a review of the public expenditure management functions; (ii) strengthening budget
formulation and execution, accounting, treasury and cash management, and internal audit capacities;
and (iii) monitoring the impacts of providing the Council of Ministers with an annual assessment and
recommendations to further improve public expenditure management performance.
48.   Given the additional strains put by the Kosovo crisis on Albania's weak public sector
institutions, the Government under the IDA's Public Expenditure Support Credit has introduced a
number of measures which aim to maintain macroeconomic and fiscal stability and to ensure
adequate fiscal resources and institutions in order to safeguard the provision of essential public
sector functions. To further these measures and to maintain more effective budget management and
financial accountability during the period of uncertainty created by the Kosovo crisis, the
Government will undertake the following additional measures under the SAC. First, the Government
will submit to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Policy bi-monthly Budget Framework
Memorandums (BFM) which aim to establish a flexible and transparent mechanism for managing
public sector resources in light of the unpredictability posed by the crisis. The BFM process would
be consistent with the guidelines enumerated in the "Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts".
Second, the Government will undertake a public expenditure tracking study on health, public works,
and local government budget, as the sectors most affected by the Kosovo crisis. Third, the
Government will prepare sector strategies, especially in health and education, in the context of the
BFM, to ensure that the relief aid occasioned by the Kosovo refugee crisis will not undermine sector
policies. Fourth, the Government will ensure coordination and transparency of the relief program by
implementing the customs screening and coordination mechanism for imports of humanitarian aid



- 13 -
and maintaining the database of international aid flows within Albania produced by the Emergency
Management Group, including making the infornation in this database available to the public on a
daily basis.
49.   To address policy fonnulation and coordination, the Government, with the assistance of the
donor community, will: (i) undertake a program of functional reviews of the ministries aimed at both
creating organizational structures more supportive of coordination and sound policy formulation and
shedding functions that could be more efficiently undertaken by the private sector; (ii) begin a
program of surveys of citizens' satisfaction with key public services; (iii) build capacity within the
Parliament to monitor the impacts of public policies; (iv) undertake and publicize reviews of the
impacts of each element of its governance and institutional reform strategy and seek citizen feedback
on how to improve that strategy and its implementation; and (v) adopt and publicize an action plan
for making further improvements.
50.    Complementary to these reforms, the Government will ensure implementation of its "Anti-
corruption Action Plan" (see Box 1). The Government first enacted the Plan by issuing a Council of
Ministers' decree in August 1998 and has since created a technical level monitoring group under the
Deputy Prime Minister to oversee its implementation. Regular meetings of the monitoring group,
coupled with annual reporting requirements, are intended to ensure that the Action Plan is
satisfactorily implemented. These arrangements are being complemented by the program of surveys
of citizens' and officials' perceptions of public administration performance and public service
quality noted above. The Plan includes more than 150 distinct actions.
51.    To strengthen the legal framework, the Cabinet has issued a decree establishing the Inter-
Ministerial Commission for Governance and Institutional Reform [Board] and will soon issue a
decree establishing the Government's institutional and governance reform strategy, consistent with
its existing "Anti-Corruption Action Plan." The Government has also submitted to Parliament a
revised Civil Service Law satisfactory to IDA, which provides the legal basis for competitive and
transparent management of the civil service [Board].2
52.   To support implementation of the Government's institutional and governance reform agenda
within its core state institutions, the SAC will support the following measures. First, the SAC will
support the Civil Service Commission's recruiting of at least 50 civil servants under transparent,
competitive, merit-based procedures satisfactory to IDA [Second tranche]. Second, it will support
the Government's issuing of a decree revising the existing public sector salary structures, based on
its recent review, in a way that makes remuneration more competitive, especially among the more
skilled positions, but does so in a way consistent with the Government's fiscal targets agreed with
the IMF. Third, the SAC will support steps to integrate the investment and recurrent budget
planning process, as an initial step toward developing a medium term budget framework, so as to
ensure more coordinated and fiscally sound budgeting.  Fourth, the SAC  will support the
establishment and publication of baseline measurements of public expenditure management
2      These SAC measures are complemented by ongoing technical assistance being provided largely by SIGMA
under the EU/PHARE State Institutions and Public Administration Reform (SIPAR) project, as well as by IDA,
through two separate instruments (the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project; a PHRD Grant; and an
Institutional Development Grant). In addition, IDA is preparing a Judicial and Public Administration Reform
Technical Assistance Credit, which will provide the technical assistance required to enable the Government to meet
the objectives of the SAC.



- 14-
performance for fiscal years 1998 and 1999, consistent with the guidelines described in the
"Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts," and the setting of a target for improvement in
measured public expenditure management performance during fiscal year 2000. Fifth, the SAC will
support the completion of functional reviews and the commencement of the implementation of their
recommendations in at least the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance's public expenditure
management functions, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Govemment.
BOX 1: GOVERNMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM
On August 13, 1998, the Council of Ministers adopted a comprehensive reform program that identifies
150 specific measures, including target dates and responsible agencies. The program focuses on institutional
strengthening and is designed to consolidate and accelerate efforts to:
1. Reform public administration
2. Modernize the judiciary
3. Improve financial management and procurement
4. Strengthen customs/tax and streamline licensing
5. Increase public awareness and participation.
Since launching the program, the Government has taken some important steps. Most notably: customs
collections have increased; competitive exams to recruit customs officers were held in September 1998; 25
customs officials have been dismissed and 15 are under prosecution. An Interministerial Committee was created
to lead public administration reform efforts, staffing of the Department of Public Administration was tripled,
and targeted salary increases were approved in late 1998. The Law on the Organization of Justice requires, by
June 1999, a one-time competency test for selected judges and widely abused correspondence law school
courses have been closed. Albania was the first country to sign the European Criminal Law Convention on
Corruption in January 1999. The Ministry of Finance has prepared the first budget under the 1998 Organic
Budget Law and has created a new Accounting Department to strengthen transparency in budget execution.
Parliament has approved the law creating a "People's Advocate" to receive citizen complaints. Independent
surveys on corruption were completed and the results widely disseminated in Albania.
In the months ahead, government leadership and civil society participation will be essential to accelerate
anti-corruption efforts. Some key priorities of the Albanian Govermnent for 1999 include:
1. Test judges appointed less than ten years ago
2. Revise laws on the prosecutor general and judicial police
3. Strengthen the functioning of the bailiffs' offices
4. Establish a functioning State Publications Center
5. Draft and implement reform of the Faculty of Law
6. Improve procedures for tax collection
7. Establish objective recruitment of customs officers
8. Strengthen the Customs Anti-Smuggling Unit
9. Revise the Law on Civil Service
10. Establish procedures for confirming civil servants
11. Create an effective central database for public employees
12. Establish a career and promotion system for civil servants
13. Post agreed fees, deadlines, appeals process in hospitals, schools, and offices providing public services.
14. Improve verification of declaration of assets, shifting burden to asset holders to verify lawful acquisition.
The Structural Adjustment Credit will support implementation of the Albanian Government's anti-
corruption program.



- 15 -
53.   The SAC will also support the creation of a mechanism (consistent with the guidelines
described in the 'Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts") by which the Govemment would be
held publicly accountable for meeting its institutional and governance reform objectives. More
specifically, it will support preparation and publication, with the assistance of the donor community,
of a baseline assessment and review of the results of the governance and institutional reforms,
including progress in the implementation of the "Anti-Corruption Action Plan" [Second Tranche3.
The Government intends to seek technical assistance to institutionalize this impact monitoring
capacity.
b.    Strengthen Public Service Provision Functions
54. The Government's intention to provide transparent, accountable, and predictable public
services to the citizens and business community can only be ensured within a framework of the rule
of law. Hence, strengthening the capacity of the legal and judicial institutions to support the
implementation of the rule of law is key to this strategy.  The Government's program, in
strengthening the provision of key public service functions, also includes fiscal and institutional
sustainability of the public pension system.
Strengthen Legal and Judicial Capacities
55.   A well-functioning legal system  is imperative, both to ensure the transparency and
accountability of the state and to underpin the emerging private market-led economy. Structural
institutional reforms of the legal and judicial institutions are essential to implementing the country's
newly created legal framework. Albania, with significant external assistance, has adopted numerous
new laws and regulations during the past six years, which together form a fairly well-developed
legislative framework for the new political and economic conditions. This impressive legislative
drafting effort was recently complemented by a new democratic Constitution and by amendments to
the Law on Judicial Organization, putting in place a well-defined system of division of power,
including an independent judiciary. This basic framework for key legal institutions will be
complemented by new organic laws on the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutors' General Offices,
spelling out their responsibilities according to the new Constitution.
56.   Nevertheless, much remains to be accomplished to ensure that the rule of law system will
function. The Government's program is giving particular attention to improving key legal
institutions needed to ensure the application and enforcement of the new legislation. A more
predictable legal system, capable of protecting property and contractual rights, is imperative for the
development of a healthy private sector.
57.   The Government's program for legal and judicial reform is supported by a number of
multilateral organizations, including the Council of Europe, the Organization for Cooperation and
Security in Europe, the European Union, and many bilateral donors. The program supported by the
SAC is closely coordinated with these programs, but focuses particularly on actions to help
implement the new legislative framework and includes measures to strengthen core legal and
institutional capacity in the following four areas: (i) ensuring that the quality and integrity of the
judiciary is adequate to apply the new legal system and that the skills of court registrars and
administrators are improved; (ii) upgrading legal and judicial education institutes to ensure that legal
professionals are trained or re-trained in the new laws and in their concepts and applications; (iii)
ensuring that all new laws and regulations are publicly accessible before they are applied; and (iv)



-16-
improving the institutional mechanisms for the long-term quality and coherence of the legislative
framework. This policy program is complemented by an IDA investment project that provides
specific financial support in these areas.
58.   Improving the functioning of the judiciary is a key part of the legal and judicial reform
program. About one-third of all Albanian judges have completed only a six-month legal education
course, and political motivation in the hiring and firing of judges still affects the judiciary.
Courthouses are mostly in a deplorable state, salaries are low, security for judges is an issue, judges
often lack access to the most basic legal information, and little has been done to provide continuing
education for judges and adequate training for court administrators. In addition, according to surveys
taken in 1998, corruption in the judiciary is perceived as endemic and widespread; the institution as a
whole ranks second on the list of the most problematic government agencies. The Government's
anti-corruption program includes a number of judicial reform measures intended to address this
serious problem. The SAC reinforces key measures included in this program.
59.   The Government has already taken important steps to establish an institutional structure for
the judiciary. The Law on the Organization of the Judiciary has been amended to provide a more
solid basis for the judicial structure. The composition of the High Council of Justice-in charge of
appointing, dismissing, and promoting judges-has been revised so that judges now elect the
majority of the Council's members, and the decision making process is much more transparent and
fair. A Judicial Inspection Office has been created to periodically evaluate the performance of all
individual judges and to investigate complaints against individual magistrates-including
accusations of corruption. The Inspector's Office has been created under the supervision of the High
Council of Justice and reports to the Council on all its findings. Appropriate actions are to be taken
by the Council. Finally, a central budget office under the High Court has been established to ensure
a more independent judicial budgetary system.
60.   To complement these measures, the Government has committed itself to implement newly
adopted regulations and procedures for the Judicial Inspection Office and to provide this office with
adequate office space and budget to execute its responsibilities. The Inspector's Office will become
the actual operational arm of the High Council of Justice, will function as the Council's daily
secretariat, and will be housed in a way appropriate to hosting the meetings of the Council as well.
Further diagnostic analysis of the organization, administration, and operation of the Office, both
present and prospective, is planned to prepare the Inspectors' Office for its anticipated role in the
evaluation of the judicial performance assessments of judges, as regards both specific complaints and
continuing job performance. The analysis might result in further regulations from the High Council
of Justice.
61.   To address immediate concerns regarding the quality of the current corps of judges, the High
Council has prepared a re-accreditation test for all first instance judges with less then 10 years'
experience [Board]; after the test, judges that no longer qualify will be removed from their judicial
positions [Second Tranche]. This one-time procedure will be followed up by periodic individual
judicial performance evaluations, to be carried out by the Inspector's Office. Furthernore, the
Government is drafting regulations defining the objectives, rules, and regulations for the preparation
of court budgets and intends to strengthen the Central Court Budget Office under the High Court. In
another action, a joint Ministry of Justice/Judiciary Committee is being set up to prepare an action
plan to improve procedures for the enforcement of judicial decisions; this is to be adopted by the
Govermnent before the end of the year. In addition, the Government will review the legal basis for



- 17 -
out-of-court mediation and arbitration of commercial disputes; will support the establishment of an
alternative dispute resolution center for commercial transactions; and will implement reforms in
court administration in the Supreme Court and two lower courts.
62.   An important step was taken in upgrading the quality of legal and judicial training
institutions with the opening of the Magistrates School in 1997. Entrance to the school is based
solely on merit and, although much remains to be done to upgrade faculty and curriculum, the school
already functions as an important model for the future. Following this model, the Government is
preparing a fundamental reform agenda for the Tirana Law School, to address the school's current
problems and ensure that future generations of legal professionals are adequately trained. Endemic
problems are plaguing the school-insufficient premises and budget, lack of adequate faculty and
teaching materials, alleged incidences of corruption, and a large influx of so-called "correspondence
students"-making it exceedingly difficult to ensure that graduates of the school obtain a quality
education. The SAC will support the implementation of the Tirana Law School reform program
[Second Tranche]. The plan, which is currently under preparation, will deal with structural,
organizational, managerial, and budgetary issues, in addition to fundamental reform of curriculum
and faculty.
63.   To improve transparency and to make Laws more accessible, the Government has created a
State Publication Office [Board], responsible for publishing all laws and central regulations as well
as all decisions of the Constitutional Court and the most important decisions of the High Court. It is
also reviewing the codification registration system and will design an adequate dissemination system
in order to make this essential legal information accessible to all interested citizens. As soon as the
Publication Office is fully functioning, an electronic database for all laws and regulations and for
most of the important judicial decisions will be designed, as well as a plan for the sustainable
dissemination of this database. This should facilitate proper access to up-to-date legal information
for all courts, government ministries, local govemments, law schools, and public libraries as soon as
possible. Naturally, such a system should also be made accessible to Albania's business community
and to the public at large through the provision of public paid subscriptions for all such information,
either electronically or in hard copy.
64.   The Government program also contains institutional strengthening measures to help improve
the quality of the legislative framework. Two currently functioning working groups to harmonize
Albania's legislative framework with the European Human Rights Convention and with European
Standards will be merged into one future permanent Law Reform Commission.
Ensure Sustainabiity of Public Pensions
65.   Pervasive poverty and fragile social cohesion, worsened by the recent repeated catastrophic
shocks, present the Government of Albania with an enormous challenge to strengthen and improve
its core institutional capacity to provide basic social services and protections. An efficient and
effective social protection program, consistent with the country's needs and its social organization
and level of development, must be built. Although such a task is a long-term one, its successful
completion requires immediate action.
66.   Public pensions in Albania are the core social protection program: they make up over 40
percent of social spending and are an important source of income for about 15 percent of the
population. The current public pension system (introduced at the beginning of 1994) is a defined



- 18-
benefit system, which provides for a comprehensive mandatory coverage of the economically active
population, including farmers. Its expenditures are financed from payroll contributions on a pay-as-
you-go basis. The statutory retirement age is being gradually increased since 1995: to 58 years for
women and 60 for men by the year 2014.
67.   Since the new public pension system  was introduced in 1994, Albania has developed
significant service delivery capacity in this area (during the "pyramid schemes" crisis in 1997
benefits delivery continued without any major interruption). Nevertheless, the pension system is
insolvent, is fiscally unsustainable, and does not provide sufficient protection for the elderly against
poverty. Its most important characteristics include: a high ratio of pensioners to old people-higher
than in countries at similar stages of development; a low support ratio-actual contributors to the
number of pensioners ratio is lower than one; and a low covered wage bill (contribution base)-
approximately 10 percent of GDP owing to low formal sector employment and low wages. The
social insurance payroll tax is extremely high (45.9 percent, of which 31.7 points are earmarked for
pensions), with a distortionary impact on the labor market, incentives for tax evasion, and adverse
effects on the forrnalization of the economy and private sector development. Despite the high tax
rate, revenues are insufficient to cover pension expenditures and the resulting deficit is mostly
financed by transfers from the central budget. In 1998 almost 15 percent of the pension bill was
financed by the central budget, with rural pensions almost entirely financed by it. Pensions are low
and in most cases do not protect the elderly against poverty, particularly in the case of farmers (in
real terms, in 1998 the average rural pension was approximately 80 percent lower and the average
urban pension 45 percent lower than in 1990). The system continues to accumulate additional
(unfunded) liabilities in the case of farmers, because transfers from the budget for rural pension
financing are registered as contributions paid by the current generation of farmers. This practice has
important implications for the long-tern fiscal sustainability of the pension system.
68.   The above-mentioned features of the Albania's public pension system  call for its full
actuarial evaluation and the consequent development of a reform strategy. However, while the
development of the public pension reform strategy is a complex task and would require more time,
issues related to the accumulation of unfunded liabilities in the case of the farmers should be
addressed immediately.
69.   The ultimate objective in the area of public pensions is to develop an affordable, fiscally
sustainable system which will ensure income security for the elderly and will keep them out of
poverty. The development of such a system is essential to the development of the core state
institutional capacities, which include the capacity to deliver basic social services and protection.
Additionally, the fiscal sustainability of the public pension scheme would contribute to the fiscal
soundness of public finance by reducing the current demands on the central budget to cover the
public pension scheme's high deficit. Furthermore, a financially viable public pension system,
financed through low taxes, that also incorporates work incentives, would help promote private
sector development and sustained economic growth. Low tax rates would reduce the tax burden on
the working population and could potentially increase formalization of the labor market.
70.   To reform the current public pension system, the Government is planning to undertake
measures in the short, medium, and long term. The short-term measures are aimed at (i) addressing
the pressing issue of the continuous accumulation of additional (unfunded) liabilities in the case of
farmers, and (ii) preparing a pension reform framework paper, which shall include full actuarial
evaluation of the current public pension system and explore possible public pension development



-19-
options. This is a necessary precondition for the development of the pension reform strategy. In the
medium term, the Government shall implement the reform strategy developed on the basis of the
actuarial analysis. The objective is to ensure that the existing public pensions pay-as-you-go system
is affordable and fiscally sustainable, and protects the elderly against poverty. The program would
also focus on strengthening and improving pension administration and educating the public on the
new system. In the long term, once the regulatory and supervisory capacity, sound banking system,
and capital markets have developed, the Government would focus on the diversification of sources of
income for the elderly through introducing the mandatory, funded pension scheme (second pillar), as
well as private pension insurance.
71.   To address the accumulation of unfunded liabilities in the case of the current generation of
farmers, legislation was amended so that eligibility of farmers for retirement benefits is conditioned
on their payment of pension insurance contributions, with appropriate transitional mechanisms. The
SAC supports further Government efforts to terminate crediting transfers from the central budget to
finance the rural pension bill as contributions in lieu of the current generation of farmers. The
Govemment has initiated the preparation of a pension reform framework paper which includes full
actuarial evaluation of the current pension system and explores options for its reform [Board]. The
first draft version of this paper will be prepared by December 1999.
c.    Strengthen Public Institutions Supporting Private Sector Development
72.   Public institutions supporting private sector development will be strengthened by: (i) creating
a more transparent and competitive financial sector by strengthening its legal framework and
creating institutional capacities that foster more transparent and competitive financial transactions;
and (ii) increasing the efficiency of agriculture by fostering more transparent and trustworthy land
markets.
Strengthen Financial Sector Regulatory Framework
73.   The pyramid scheme pointed to the need to strengthen the banking law as well as the
regulation and supervision of the banking system. The Govemment with the support of the
Rehabilitation Credit has made substantial progress in winding up the pyramid scheme and in
addressing the key areas of banking reform. The task of disposing of the assets of the pyramid
scheme companies is almost complete and legislation has been passed that would prevent a
recurrence of such schemes. A revised Banking Law allowing deposits only by financial institutions
was passed by Parliament in June 1998. At the same time, the Bank of Albania's enforcement of the
Banking Law, especially the prohibition of continued lending by banks with negative capital,
effectively stopped all lending activities through the state banks. Enforcement of the Company Law
and other commercial laws is being improved. Recently, Parliament enacted a law creating the Loan
Collection Agency to address the orderly disposition of the state bank's bad loans, in close
consultation with the IDA.
74.   To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Bank of Albania, the Supervisory Council has
approved the establishment of a Credit Information Bureau to be operated by the Bank of Albania.
The IMF is taking the lead in the modernization of the payments system and the strengthening of
banking supervision, in close collaboration with the IDA. In addition, the Bank of Albania is in the
process of introducing communication lines (SWIFT) with commercial banks to reconcile inter-



- 20 -
bank payments. A new Chart of Accounts for Commercial Banks is being applied with the
guidance of the Bank of Albania.
75.   At this juncture, an important factor facing the financial sector is the implementation of
policies that will maintain confidence in the banking system and will allow the system to efficiently
intermediate the funding needs of a growing private sector. The SAC will support further
implementation of measures that will strengthen the financial sector infrastructure and regulatory
framework. More specifically, the SAC will: (i) support the technical and institutional enhancement
of the Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Albania for the timely enforcement of the
banking laws and regulations through on-site and off-site supervision; (ii) implement measures
aimed at establishing a fully functioning payments system; (iii) strengthen and increase the efficiency
of the Loan Collection Agency; and (iv) enact into law the draft legislation on Secured Transactions
[Second Tranche]. All of the above measures will also increase transparency and will strengthen the
anti-corruption efforts of the Government.
Develop a Land Market
76.   To protect the property rights established with the distribution of state-owned agriculture
land, and to establish the legal and institutional framework within which a land market can develop,
the Govemment designed and implemented an Action Program for an Immovable Property
Registration System (Land Market Action Program) in 1993. The Program was originally aimed at
establishing first-time registration of all real estate properties (excluding forest and pasture land) by
December 1998. However, this target was not met, partly because of the 1997 civil unrest and partly
because of regulatory and implementation constraints.  In April 1998 the Government adopted
legislation to partially address issues related to buying and selling land. Currently, less than 30
percent of land ownership has been formally registered. The low share of fully registered real estate
is reflected in a low (though gradually increasing) number of real estate transactions.
77.    The Government has completed first-time land registration in 750 cadastral units3 [Board]
and is planning to complete first time land registration in 1,000 cadastral units by the second tranche
[Second Tranche]. To accelerate the land registration process the Government intends to: (i) reduce
the period of the public display of immovable properties prior to registration from 90 days to 45
days; (ii) unify the functions of the coordination of the titling process and of title registration at the
level of District Registration Office; and (iii) improve the coordination and management of property
titling and registration at the national level. By end 1999, the Government would adopt the Land
Market Action Program which aims at achieving the first-time registration of all agricultural land,
including pasture and forest land, by 2001. To resolve a number of remaining issues associated with
the land distribution program, the Government will re-install a system of District Land Commissions
to provide land distribution documents (tapia) for land undistributed during the early land reform
process (around 120,000 out of 720,000 ha) and for land currently under possession but without
distribution documents (estimated around 30,000 ha). In addition, the Government will take
inventory of the claims of former owners of agricultural, forest, and pasture land with the aim of
resolving pending compensation issues.
3      Cadastral zones are geographically defined areas, often the size of a village in rural areas, which are small
enough to locate parcels easily and which usually contain around 1,500 parcels.



- 21 -
78.    Currently, most forest and pasture land is under state ownership and, in principle, is under
state management. The inability of the state to safeguard and manage these lands contributes
significantly to large-scale natural resource degradation. To allow for the leasing of pastures and
forest lands, village and cadastral boundaries must be established (this has been implemented only
for agriculture and urban real estate). The Government will prepare legislation and procedures for
establishing boundaries for cadastral zones in all forests and pastures.



- 22 -
Table 1: Core SAC Measures
Objectives                          Board                                   Second Tranche
Maintain Sustainable     *   Satisfactory Macroeconomic Framework    *   Satisfactory Macroeconomic Framework and
Macroeconomnic               and Performance                             Performance
Framework
Complete Privatization    *   Complete privatization or liquidation of  *   Complete privatization of all remaining
of Enterprises and           200 of the remaining 469 SMEs. Submit       SMEs with the exception of enterprises in the
Banks                        files of another 135 of the remaining 469   defense and cultural sectors.
SMEs to NAP, issue the privatization order  *   Complete privatization or liquidation of 15
for the same enterprises to NAP, and        small copper and 66 small chrome mines.
establish auction timetable for privatization   *   Finalize the sale of the govemment's shares
of these companies.                        in the NCB to new owners, receive payment
*   Commence due diligence of AMC               from the sale and ensure that a new license
(cellular telecom company)                  from the Bank of Albania is issued to NCB.
*   Select strategic investor for the National
Commercial Bank.
Strengthen Core          *   Issue decree establishing Inter-Ministerial   *   Complete the recruitment of 50 civil servants
Institutional Functions      Committee for Institutional and             under transparent, competitive, merit-based
Governance Reform.                          procedures as established under the human
*   Submit to Parliament revised Civil Service  resources management legislation in a
Law and begin preparation of the detailed   manner acceptable to IDA.
norms and procedures related to that Law  *   Continue monitoring and publicizing
that would lay an adequate legal foundation  progress on implementation of institutional
for competitive, transparent management of  and governance reform program and make
the civil service.                          substantial progress on implementation of the
Anticorruption Action Plan in form and
substance acceptable to IDA.
Strengthen Legal and     *   Prepare re-accreditation test for all first-  *   Complete the test envisaged by Article 48 of
Judicial Capacities         instance judges with less than 10 years      the Law of December 28, 1998 and discharge
experience.                                 all judges from office who have not passed
*   Establish State Publication Office (with an  the test by the High Council of Justice
appropriate Legislative and Regulatory      accordingly.
structure), and appoint qualified Director.    *   Implement the government Reform Program
of the Faculty of Law of the University of
Tirana in form and substance satisfactory to
IDA.
Ensure Sustainability of  *  Initiate preparation of a pension reform
Public Pensions             framework paper, which shall include full
actuarial evaluation of the current public
pension system and explore options for its
reform, including eligibility and benefit
provisions, transparent and equitable
transitional mechanisms, the fiscal costs of
each option, and the administrative and
other implementation arrangements.
Strengthen Financial                                                 *   Enact into law the draft legislation on secured
Sector Regulatory                                                        transactions substantially as agreed with IDA.
Framework
Develop a Land Market   Complete first- time registration in 750 cadastral  *   Complete first-time registration in 1,000
units.                                          cadastral units.



- 23 -
III. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Objectives
79.   The proposed SDR 33.2 million (US$45 million equivalent) Credit would support the
Government program described above. The main objective of the Credit would be to back the
Government's efforts toward the restoration of sustained growth and improved living standards
through reforms that enhance government functioning and also strengthen the environment for more
efficient private sector development. Governance and institutional reform would be the backbone of
the reform program supported by this Credit. The reform would underpin the implementation of
other reforms and would assist the Government in establishing more efficient institutional
arrangements for making strategic policy decisions and for being accountable for their
implementation. The Credit will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program in compliance with the agreed tranche release conditions.
80.   The Government's overall reform program has been designed to take place within a
framework for macroeconomic stability consistent with the Government's ESAF arrangement with
the IMF. The main policy areas to be supported by the SAC are described in the attached draft
Letter of Development Policy (Annex I).
B. Relation to the CAS
81.   The Bank group strategy presented in the CAS, and discussed at the Board on July 30, 1998
is geared toward strengthening governance and institution building so that the Government can
continue to implement its agenda of restoring sustained growth and alleviating poverty. More
specifically, the strategy aims to promote sustainable private sector growth and to promote human
resources development and the alleviation of poverty in order to ensure the social sustainability of
the reform process. The proposed SAC supports the Government's reform initiatives that are the
cornerstone of this strategy. Policies supported under the SAC to improve the capacity of the public
sector to carry out its role and reduce corruption, as well as to improve legal and judicial reform, are
essential to strengthen governance and institution building. Measures supported by the SAC to
expedite the privatization of banks and enterprises and to develop a land market are key to improving
the environment for private sector growth and to maintaining macroeconomic stability. The SAC-
supported policies for reforming public pensions are designed to ensure the fiscal sustainability of
the pension system in order to allow more budgetary resources for the social programs needed for the
social sustainability of the reform process.
82.   The CAS strategy is complemented by the program prepared for Albania in response to the
Kosovo Crisis. The large inflow of refugees to Albania and the negative economic shocks
experienced as a result of the crisis create incremental financing requirements for Albania that were
not foreseen before. Part of this unforseen financing requirement are supported by a US$30 million
Public Expenditure Support Credit approved by the Board on May 6, 1999. The CAS specifies that
we are working on the high case scenario in Albania with a lending envelope of about US$145
million of IDA resources. To date, the high case scenario has been justified, given the important
policy performance and the satisfactory macro stabilization record. This scenario envisages two
adjustment operations including this SAC. The SAC operation contains strong pre-Board measures



- 24 -
to demonstrate the commitment of the new Government to continue to reform and to maintain the
high case lending.
83.   The SAC-supported policy reforms are complementary to those supported under the Public
Expenditure Support Credit approved by the Board on May 6. They are also necessary for the
success of the several ongoing operations, as well as those operations that are under preparation,
including the Judicial and Public Administration Reform Technical Assistance Project and the
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project. The SAC also supports the Government's anti-
corruption activities.
84.   The SAC has been prepared in parallel with the IMF's second annual review of the ESAF
program to ensure the consistency of the macroeconomic and structural policy package supported by
both programs. The IDA's response to the impact of the Kosovo crisis in Albania is also coordinated
closely with the IMF. Staff of both institutions produced a joint paper "The Economic Consequences
of the Kosovo Crisis" assessing the external financing needs emerging from this crisis.
C. Implementation Arrangements
85.   Tranching. The proposed SAC will be made to Albania as represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The Credit will be released in two tranches: US$20 million following Board presentation
and US$25 million on fulfillment of the specific second tranche release conditions within six months
of the release of the first tranche. The Credit would be have a 40-year maturity including a 10-year
grace period. The Government will ratify the Credit before it becomes effective. An inter-
ministerial work group, chaired by the Ministry of Finance and including sector ministries affected
by the SAC, would be responsible for the coordination of the activities and the implementation of the
SAC.
86.   Disbursement. Upon approval of the Credit, the Ministry of Finance will open and maintain
a deposit account in the Bank of Albania. As each tranche is released, the IDA will deposit the
proceeds of the Credit in this account at the request of the Ministry of Finance. If, after deposit in
this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on the IDA's standard negative
list), the IDA will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the IDA, in which case the IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit.
87.   Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. The IDA reserves the right to require an audit of the
deposit account. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within six to nine months of the release
of the second tranche. The closing date of the Credit will be December 2000.
88.   Environmental Safety. The SAC will have no direct impact on the environment. For the
purpose of Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
89.   Poverty Category. The proposed SAC will have an important effect on poverty, since it will
support growth objectives in a stable environment as well as measures to improve productivity in
agriculture and to reform the social insurance framework. The low levels of inflation will prevent
further erosion in the real living standards of the poor. The objectives of improving public



- 25 -
administration and management of resources will make possible improvements in the cost
effectiveness of those Government social programs that are especially important for the poor.
90.   Supervision. The SAC implementation will require three supervision missions in September
1999, January 1999, and March 2000. Between these missions, follow-up will be carried out by the
staff of the Resident Mission in Tirana.
D. Benefits and Risks
91.   Benefits.  The actions under the SAC will aid fiscal adjustment and will ensure the
sustainability of the reform process by strengthening the institutional infrastructure needed to
improve the public sector's capacity to carry out its role effectively and efficiently. The SAC's
actions will also encourage private sector development by accelerating reform in key structural areas.
By enforcing prudential measures in the banks, the program will improve the efficiency and
functioning of the banking system, which is essential for the growth of the real sector. By reducing
public sector recourse to the banking system, the SAC will allow more resources for private sector
investment. The SAC measures would also provide a positive signal to international institutions and
investors regarding the Government's commitment to reform.
92.   Risks. Institutional and governance reform is inherently risky. Any number of contingencies
could divert attention from, and could thereby sidetrack or even derail, the process of building the
institutional infrastructure necessary for improved public sector performance. This is, particularly
the case if hostilities in Kosovo continue over a prolonged time period or if they draw Albania into
an open military conflict. The continued influx of refugees into Albania will also put excessive
pressure on the economy and would run the risk of derailing macroeconomic stability. Domestically,
the failure to consolidate political power and ensure internal security could carry the risk of another
eruption of civil disorders and could derail the program. Such risks are heightened by the limited
credibility and authority of the Government. And internal security could become a major constraint
to economic recovery and could potentially discourage private investment and the flow of external
resources. The other important risk would be failure to maintain macroeconomic stability, which
would result in high inflation and interest rates. Lack of political commitment could delay fiscal
adjustment and the implementation of structural reforms and could also impede the reform process
of the pension system. Implementation could also be undermined by weak institutional and
governance capacity. Poor coordination among the ministries involved is a further risk that could
adversely affect the program's implementation.
93.   To reduce these risks, the IDA will continue to assist the Government in mobilizing the
technical assistance necessary to adopt and implement the reforms and would also deepen the
ongoing dialogue with the Government on structural reform and would work closely with the other
donors and the NGOs to provide this technical assistance. Moreover, the SAC disbursements are
strictly tied to the adoption of policy conditions. It is important to note that, preparation of the
proposed operation was preceded by the Country Economic Memorandum, the analysis of which was
shared with the Government and the concerned ministries and was reflected in the design of the SAC
measures. The external shock effect of the Kosovo crisis cannot be mitigated by the proposed
operation and needs to be addressed through humanitarian assistance and future support by the
international donor community. However, under the SAC the Government will undertake a number
of measures to maintain fiscal stability and to safeguard provision of essential public services during



- 26 -
the Kosovo crisis. The technical assistance being provided by the donors and by the Judicial and
Public Administration Reform project under preparation, as well as by the Recovery Program
Technical Assistant Project should help implement the institutional reform measures. The inter-
ministerial work group under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance, which helped in the
preparation of the SAC, is expected to continue its work during the implementation phase of the
Credit and to improve coordination among the implementing agencies. Subsequent Bank group
operations would seek to sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation.
IV. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
94.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of IDA
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1999



Annexes



Annex I
Page 1 of 9
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    Albania faces an extraordinarily difficult set of challenges. On the one hand,
Albania is one of the poorest countries in Europe and has some of the weakest
institutional capacities to meet basic governance demands, including the rule of law
and the provision of basic public services. On the other hand, the Kosovo conflict has
suddenly placed extraordinary demands on our citizenry and our public sector. The
influx of refigees as of late April 1999 totaled more than 10 percent of our country's
total population, and had quadrupled the local population in the northern border areas.
This sudden surge of refuxgees has placed unprecedented demands on both the
Albanian households as well as on our public sector's capacity to provide basic
infrastructure and public services. While international relief efforts are helping to
meet the emergency demands, the Kosovo crisis still threatens to destabilize our
already weak institutional and governance capacities.
2.    In light of this very difficult situation, we have devised a program aimed at
consolidating the stabilization gains achieved to date and strengthening the prospects
for sustained economic growth in the medium tern, while simultaneously building
institutional capacity to meet not only the most basic needs of our own citizenry but
also to meet additional demands posed by the Kosovo crisis- To this effect, we are
committed to maintaining our prudent macroeconomic policy while continuing to
deepen the structural reforms already under way. We recognize that we need to
resolve a number of deeply rooted institutional problems, including a weak state
structure, in order to complete the structural reform agenda and ensure the
sustainability of its process.
3.    StabUization Measures. To continue with our stabilization policy, which is
the backbone of our growth objectives, we have agreed with the lMF on a three-year
ESAF program. The objective of this program is to firther reduce the annual rate of
inflation to below 5 percent, maintain the momentum of growth, and keep the foreign
exchange reserves at about four months of imports. These objectives will be achieved
through continued tight fiscal and monetary policies and through efforts to increase
exports and contain the current account deficit. The domestically financed fiscal
deficit is targeted to decline -from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to 5.5 percent in 1999
and to 3.3 percent in 2001, leading to increase in Government savings and enabling
resources to be available for private investment. Deficit reduction will be achieved
through a combination of improved tax performance and increased efficiency in
public spending through better prioritization, particularly of current expenditures.
Monetary policy will also remain tight and the exchange rate regime will remain
flexible. Inflation is expected to drop from 8.7 percent in 1998 to 7 percent in 1999
and 3 percent in 2001. With the anticipated increase in imports the current account
deficit is expected to increase from 6.1 percent in 1998 to 11.6 percent in 1999.
However, improved domestic savings would permit a reduction in the current account
deficit to about 7 percent in 2001.



Annex I
Page 2 of 9
4.    Structural Measures. Strengthening governance and institutional reform and
building an accountable and transparent state remain the main objectives of our
structural reform program. Our objective is to: (i) reduce the demand placed on the
institutions of the state; and (ii) strengthen state institutional capacities and build more
transparent and accountable state institutions.
Reducing Demand Placed on State Institutions
5.    In recognition of the unavoidable difficulty of strengthening the institutions of
governance, the Government program aims at minimizing this challenge by reducing
the demand placed on the institutions of the state. It will do this by (i) completing its
enterprise and banking sector privatization programs; and, (ii) reducing finctions that
can most efficiently be undertaken by the private sector and reducing the
Government's interventions in the markets.
6.    Completing Prvatization of Enterprises and Banks. Our privatization
objectives are geared to promoting private sector development by privatizing the
remaining small and medium  enterprise (SMEs) and the strategic enterprises
(telecommunications, chromium, copper, petrol). We have adopted a comprehensive
privatization strategy, approved by the Parliament in March 1998, covering SME
privatization and strategic sector privatizatiom During 1998, the last 200 enterprises
which had been scheduled for privatization prior to the 1997 crisis were sold or
liquidated. Under the current SME privatization program we have sold or liquidated
200 of the remaining 469 SMEs, and have submitted files of another 135 enterprises
to the National Agency for Privatization. We will auction the rest of the SMEs, with
the exception of enterprises in the defense and cultural sectors, before December
1999.
7.    Strategic privatization is the second focus of the Govemment's privatization
program covering the telecommunications, mining, and oil and gas sectors, which
together encompass five companies. A sectoral privatization strategy for
telecommunications and petroleum has been adopted, and legislation has been passed
to liberalize the mining sector. The Goverjunent established an inter-ministerial
committee for strategic sector privatization in early November 1998 and hired
financial advisers to help this committee implement the program. With the aid of the
financial advisers, the Government is aiming to find strategic investors that can
contribute know-how and technology to the companies being sold.
S.    While the Government's work with the financial advisers is well underway,
the current circumstances in the region, in particular the Kosovo conflict, create
significant obstacles for privatization, especially of strategic enterprises. The political
uncertainty in the region could make the sale of important assets impossible, or at best
severely depress the sale price. We fuUy intend to continue our strategic privatization
program, but the timing of actual sales needs to be kept under review as the situation
in the region evolves. In this respect, the input of the financial advisers, who are in
direct contact with the market, will be very important. We intend to put for sale the
two telecommunications companies, AMC (cellular network) and AT (fixed network)
by December 1999. The initial steps toward privatization of these companies have
already been taken: the Sector Policy Paper, the specific law on privatization of AMC,
and the Govenunent decision on tender procedures for strategic sector enterprises



Annex I
Page 3 of 9
have all been submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration In addition, the
audit of AMC, part of the due diligence for the tender process, is currently underway.
The timing of the sale of the chromium (Albkrom), copper (Albbaker) and petroleum
(Albpetrol) companies will be determined with the advice of the financial advisers by
end 1999. However, initial steps toward the privatization of these companies have
been taken through the restructuring and conversation into joint stock companies of
Albkrom and Albbaker. By December 1999, 66 and 15 small and inefficient
chromium  and copper mines will be spun off from  Albkrom  and Albbaker,
respectively, either through privatization or through liquidation. The petroleum
company, Albpetrol, would be split up into three joint companies and temporary
holding company.
9.    To complete the privatization of state banks, we have selected a strategic
investor for the National Comunercial Bank and will finalize its privatization by
December 1999. In addition, we will implement the Savings Bank's Governance
Contract, which is intended particularly to help define the strategies for the bank's
breakup, privatization, possible spin-off, or full compensation for fiscal functions
performed for the Government. The Bank of Albania provides regulatory relief to the
Savings Bank on the condition that it stops all lending activities until it achieves
compliance with the capital adequacy related articles of Banking Law. This has
enabled us to stop the accrual of additional losses through new credit, and we are now
in the process of operational and administrative restructuring of Savings Bank with
the objective of privatizing it.
10.   Reducing Public Sector Activities snd Interventions. In the agriculture
sector we are aiming to re-define the roles and responsibilities of the state in view of
consolidating the structural adjustment achievements of the past, which will
contribute to ensuring continued out put growth and productivity increase in the
medium term. We consider the agriculture sector one of the key economic sectors,
given its large share in the economy and the number of people living in rural areas.
This is reflected in the "Green Strategy" recently adopted by the Council of Ministers.
11.   Since 1991 the agriculture sector has experienced dramatic changes as a result
of land reform, price and trade liberalization, and farm and agri-processing
privatization. This has also fundamentally changed the respective roles of the private
sectors, with the private sector taking the lead in production, marketing, and
processing while public sector responsibilities are focused on providing a conducive
environment within which the private agriculture sector can operate. To further reduce
the demands placed on the state in the agriculture sector, we will refrain from re-
introducing mechanisms of price intervention or price stabilization. We will also
maintain relatively low levels of trade protection for agricultural and food products as
reflected in the trade regime established in September 1998 and in the proposed new
tariff regime with three tariff bands which we expect Parliament adopt in April 1999.
Joining the WTO should also help us to establish a simple and more transparent
import tariff structwre for agricultural products.
12.   We have fiurther reduced the demands on the state by reducing the scope of
operations of the General Directorate of the State Reserves GDSR) by reducing wheat
inventories as well as the staff and by privatizing storage infrastructure and transport
feet. We have reduced wheat inventories to 14.000 tons by the end of 1998 and have



Annex I
Page 4 of 9
further reduced them to 8.000 tons by early March 1999. In addition, we have
replaced the winter Cereal Distribution Program to the northern and northeastern
districts by cash transfers in advance of the winter season; and we intend to carry out
a review of this new program during 1999 with the aim of incorporating lessons for
the implementation of this program during the winter of 1999-2000.
13.   In the immediate future we will strive to minimize the potential negative
impact of the current general purpose food aid imports (that is not directly targeted to
refugees) on agriculture incentives which tend to reduce domestic prices for
agriculture procedures and hence the incentive for Albanian procedures to supply the
market. To reduce the potential negative impact of food aid imports on agriculture
incentives the Govemment will sell general purpose food aid imports (not targeted
directly to refiugees) to the private sector upon or shortly before arrival in Albania
through auction type mechanisms, and transfer the proceeds to the budget. Given the
scale and emergency nature of the current crisis we expect GDSR to retain in he short
term some involvement in the process of distributing humanitarian relief aid to
refugee centers as well as in the process of selling general food aid imports to the
private sector. In order to increase the transparency and accountability of the
operations of the GDSR  we will disclose the full audit report (including
recommendations) of the 1998, and prepare an action plan (which we will also
disclose to the public) on how the Government intents to implement the
recommendations.
Strengthening State Institutional Capacities
14.   Our Program is aimed at strengthening the functions that the public sector
must undertake. To meet these needs, it attempts to provide the basis for more
competitive, transparent, and accountable institutions within three sets of state
institutions: core functions, key public service provision functions, and public
institutions supporting private sector development.
1 J. Strengthening Core Public Sector Functions. We are deeply committed to
furthering Albariia's public administration reform process. To address the factors
behind poor governance and weak institutions and thereby establish a firmer
infrastructure upon which institutional and governance capacities can be nurtured, our
program focuses on the following three elements of its core functions: (i) civil service
management; (ii) public expenditure management; (iii) policy formulation and
coordination capacities and accountability. In addition, our "Anti-Corruption Action
Plan" provides a complementary vehicle that strengthens many of these core functions
and addresses the institutional roots of corruption.
16.   In support of this agenda, we have already issued a Cabinet decree
establishing the InterMinisterial Commission for Governance and Institutional
Reform. We will also issue a decree establishing our institutional and governance
reform strategy (June 1999), consistent with our existing "Anti - Corruption Action
Plan" after roundtable discussions with the civil society. In addition, we have
submitted to Parliament a revised Civil Service Law satisfactory to IDA which
provides the legal basis for an independent Civil Service Commission.



Annex I
Page 5 of 9
17.   We will also undertake a number of actions to implement our prograrn for
strengthening each of these three core state functions. First the Civil Service
Commission will recruit at least 50 civil servants under transparent, competitive.
merit - based procedures satisfactory to IDA. Second, we will issue a decree revising
the existing public sector salary structures, based on our recent review, in a way that
makes remuneration more competitive, especially among the more skilled positions,
but does so in a way consistent with Government's fiscal targets agreed with the IMF.
Third, we will take steps to integrate the investment and recurrent budget planning
process, as an initial step toward developing a medium termn budget framework, so as
to ensure more coordinated and fiscally sound budgeting. Fourth, we will establish
and publicize baseline measurements of public expenditure management performance
for fiscal year 1998 and 1999, consistent with the guidelines described in the
"Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts," and will set a target for improvement
in measured public expenditure management performance during fiscal year 2000.
Sixth, we will complete functional reviews of at least the Council of Ministers, the
Ministry of Finance's public expenditure management functions, the Ministry of
Justice, and the Ministry of Local Goverunent. Complementary to these actions, we
will implement our "Anti-Corruption Action Plan" adopted in August 1998.
18.   The Kosovo conflict and the influx of refugees has put strain on our econornic
infrastructure and has immediate impact on our institution building and structural
reform  programs. To minimize the disruptive effects of this crisis, we have
undertaken a number of measures the Public Expenditure Support Credit to maintain
macroeconomic and fiscal stability, to improve coordination and transparency of the
relief program, and to ensure adequate fiscal allocations to safeguard essential public
sector functions. To further these measures and to maintain more effective financial
accountability during the period of uncertainty created by the Kosovo crisis,
throughout 1999 we will submit to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Econornic
Policy bi- monthly Budget Framework Memorandums consistent with the guidelines
enumerated in the " Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts" . We will also
implement a public expenditure track9ing study on health, public works and local
goverm-nent budget, as the sectors most affected by the Kosovo crisis. Furthermore, in
the context of the Budget Framework Memorandum we will establish sector
strategies, particularly in education and health, and distribute them to the relevant
donors to ensure that the relief aid efforts occasioned by the refugee crisis would not
determine our sector policies. To ensure coordination and transparency of relief
prograrn we intend to continue implementing the customs screening and coordination
mechanism for imports of humanitarian aid and maintaining the database of
international aid flows within Albania produced by the Emergency Management
Group, including making the information in this database available to the public on a
daily basis.
19.   We will create a mechanism (consistent with the guidelines described in the
"Technical Note: Monitoring Reform Impacts") by which the Government would be
held publicly accountable for meeting its institutional and governance reform
objectives. More specifically, we will prepare and publicize, with the assistance of the
donor community, a baseline assessment and review of the results of the govemance
and institutional reforms, including progress in implementation of the "Anti-
Corruption Action Plan". We plan to seek technical assistance to support the
institutionalization of this impact monitoring capacity.



Annex I
Page 6 of 9
20.   Strengthening Key Public Service Provision Functions. Our intention is to
provide twparent, accountable, and predictable public services to our citizens and
our business community which can only be ensured within a framework of the rule of
law. Hence, strengthening the capacity of our legal and judicial institutions to support
the implementation of the rule of law is key in our strategy. We will also strengthen
the provision of key public service functions, particularly by taking actions to
strengthen and ensure the fiscal and institutional sustainability of the public pension
system.
21.   Strengthening' Legal and Juicial Capacities. In legal and judicial reform, we
want to build on the solid foundation provided by our new Constitution. adopted on
November 23, 1998, and the amended Law on Judicial Organization, adopted on
December 28, 1998. We will complement this basic legal framework by new organic
laws on the functioning of the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutors General Office,
currently under preparation. These laws will set out the main responsibilities of these
legal institutions in accordance with the Constitution. The planed functional review of
the Ministry of Justice may help define the role of the Ministry of Justice, both in its
internal organization and its interactions with other key legal institutions, such as the
court system and the Prosecutor's General Office.
22.   Our main objective now is to improve the implementation of the rule of law by
strengthening key legal institutions. This will be critical to improving the functioning
of the judicial system, the quality and consistency of the legislative framework. We
will improve the quality of the judicial branch by ensuring that judges are
appropriately qualified for their posts. To address immediate concerns, and in
compliance with our Anti-Corruption Plan, we will carry out a one -time re-
accreditation test of all first instance judges with less than 10 years of experience.
Judges who do not pass this exam will no longer qualify as judges, and the High
Council of Justice will remove them from their posts. From then on, the performance
of all judges will be periodically evaluated by the High Council of Justice through the
Judicial Inspectors' Offlce, recently established under the auspices of the High
Council of Justice.
23.   This office will also be in charge of investigating specific complaints-
including corruption accusations-against individual judges. By December 1999, this
key institution will be filly operational, with an adequate budget, housing, and all
relevant procedures in place. By the same date we will also have begun to implement
our plans to reform court administration and case management in the High Court and
two lower courts, as well as our Action Plan to improve the enforcement of judicial
decisions. We also intend to steadily improve the fiunctioning of alternative systems
for the settlement of disputes. The basis of out-of-court mechanisms for the settlement
of disputes, particular regarding the settlement of commercial disputes, will be
reviewed. By December 1999, we will ensure an appropriate legal regime for out-of-
court mediation and arbitration, as well as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Center
for commercial transactions.
24.   To improve the quality of Albania's legal profession, we intend to strengthen
our key legal education institute, the Tirana Law School. We are preparing a
fiundamental reform strategy for the school, we have allocated the school with an



Annex I
Page 7 of 9
autonomous budget and we will reallocate it to more suitable housing. We intend to
start implementing the reform program before end 1999. In addition, we will continue
to strengthen the Magistrates School and ensure that, by the end of this year, its
judicial education program for judges and prosecutors who have less than five years
of experience is designed and is under way. The School will also establish a training
program for court administrators and budget staff.
25.   We recognize that all Albanians must have access to all laws and regulations
as well as all judicial decisions that interpret these laws and regulations. As a first step
in this endeavor we have created our new State Publication Office. Subsequently, by
December 1999, we will design an electronic database for all laws and regulations and
for most of the important judical decisions and will design a plan for the sustainable
dissemination of this information. Our goal is to systematically reach all courts,
government ministries, local governments, law schools, and public libraries as soon as
possible. This system will be accessible to our business commnunity and to all citizens
as well. We will provide for public paid subscriptions for all such information either
electronically or by hard copy. To remove the inconsistencies in the quality of
legislative drafting and the substance of laws and regulations, including discrepancies
between existing laws and European conventions, we intend to establish a permanent
Law Reform Commission by December 1999, with the responsibility, in part, to
improve our record in these areas.
26.   Ensurinsf Suslinabiliy of Public Pensions, The current public pension
system, which constitutes our core social protection program, has been in effect for
five years. During these years we have developed a considerable service delivery
capacity in this area. However, our public pension system is insolvent and is fiscally
unsustainable and it does not provide sufficient protection for the elderly against
poverty. Moreover, the system continues to accumulate future uncovered liabilities for
the pensions of farmers. In response to this, we plan to undertake measures to develop
an affordable, fiscally sustainable public pension system which will ensure income
security for the elderly and will keep them put of poverty. The development of such a
system is an essential part of the development of the core state institutional
capacities, which include the capacity to deliver basic social serices and protections.
Additionally, the fiscal sustainability of the public pension scheme would contribute
to the soundness of public finance by reducing current demands placed on the central
budget to cover the public pension to cover the public pension scheme deficit
Furthermore, a financially viable public pension system, financed through low taxes,
that also incorporates work  incentives, would help promote private sector
development and sustained economic growth. Low tax rates would reduce the tax
burden on the working population and would promote formalization of labor market.
27.   Our immediate objective  in reforming  public pensions is to  cease
accumulating non-funded liabilities. Accordingly, we will begin to link eligibility for
rural pension benefits to payment of contributions, while providing for simple and
fair transitional mechanisms. We will cease crediting transfers from the central
budget to finance pension deficit in lieu of insurance contributions paid by farmers at
the latest by end-1999.
28.   In the medium termn, we would concentrate on strengthening the public pay-as-
you-go pension system. Our objective is to ensure that this system is affordable and is



Annex I
Page 8 of 9
fiscally sustainable, and also provides incentives for participation and protects the
elderly against poverty. This requires preparing the pension reforn framework paper,
which will include fiull actuarial evaluation of the current public pension system and
explore possible public pension system arnd policies development options, as
necessary precondition for the development of the pension reform strategy later on.
We have began preparation of this paper and will have the first drafi by December
1999. The new adjusted public pension system should more explicitly link benefits to
contributions, with adequate provision for basic benefit levels and with a gradual
transition mechanism. The system should allow for the gradual reduction of the
contribution rate, as to make room in the long term for diversification of sources of
income in old age.
29.   Strengthening   Public  Institutions   Supporting   Private   Sector
Development. Public institutions supporting private sector development will be
strengthened by: (i) creating a more transparent and competitive financial sector by
strengthening its legal framework and creating institutional capacities that foster more
transparent and competitive financial transactions; and (ii) increasing the efficiency of
agriculture by fostering more transparent and trustworthy land markets.
30.   Stregm      Financial Sector Re ator  ramework Our aim  is to
establish a sound and competitive private banking system  that can efficiently
intermediate resources and provide the funding needs of a growing private sector.
Parallel with the winding up of the pyramid scheme we have made substantial
progress in divesting the state banks and in improving the financial sector
infrastructure and regulatory framework. A revised Banding Law that allows deposits
only by banks was passed by Parliament in June 1998. At the same time, the Bank of
Albania's enforcement of Banking Law, especially the prohibition on continued
lending by banks with negative capital, effectively stopped all lending activities
through the state banks. Enforcement of the Company Law and other commercial
laws is being improved. Recntly, Parliament enacted a law creating the Loan
Collection Agency with the objective of the orderly disposition of the state bank's bad
loans, in close consultation with IDA.
31.   To strengthen the institutional Capacity of the Bank of Albania, the
Supervisory Council has approved the establishment of a Credit Information Bureau
to be operated by the Bank of Albania. A new Chart of Accounts for Commercial
Banks is being applied with the guidance of the Bank of Albania We had planned to
establish a fully functioning payment in 1999. However, there have been unavoidable
delays in the schedule of our actions because of the Kosovo crisis. Despite the
difficulties we are still committed  to establish this system  and will begin
implementing the relevant measures by end 1999. We will increase our efforts to
maximize the performance of the already established Loan Collection Agency. By
December 1999, we will enact the Secured Transactions Law acceptable to IDA. We
intend to enhance the technical and institutional firamework of the Banking
Supervision Department of the Bank of Albania and to ensure timely enforcement of
the banking laws and regulations. All of the above measures will improve
transparency and strengthen our anti-corruption efforts.
32.   Developing a LandMarket. We will further the building of the institutions
required for the establishment and functioning of a land market. Our primary



Annex I
Page 9 of 9
objective is to make significant progress in finalizing the first-time registration of
agricultural land and to facilitate the subsequent transfer of land ownership rights,
including the lease of state forests and pastures. To this effect during 1998 we adopted
key legislative measures such as a new Law on Transferring the Ownership of
Agriculture Land, Meadows and Pastures, and a new Law on Leasing State-Owned
Agriculture Land, Meadows, Pastures and Forests. With the aim of accelerating the
land registration process we will:(i) reduce the period of the public display of
immovable properties prior to registration from 90 to 45 days,(ii) unify the functions
of the coordination of the titling process and title registration at the level of the
District Registration Office; and (iii) improve the coordination and management of
property titling and registration at the national level. In addition, we intend to: (i)
adopt the extension of the Land Market Action Program; (ii) ensure that all district
land registration offices will be fully operational (iii) re-install District  Land
Commissions for the purpose of issuing land distribution documents (tapia) for
agriculture land that has so far not been distributed, (iv) prepare and adopt regulations
to establish cadastral zone boundaries for forest and pasture land ; and (v) take
inventory of claims of former owners of agriculture, forest, and pasture land with the
aim of resolving pending compensation issues. Based on these measures, we have
fully registered real estate in 750 out of 3,050 cadastral zones; and will complete real
estate registration in 1,000 cadasral zones by December 1999
Anasta Angel                                          Pa
Min
Mn ste    inPr
Shkelqim Cani
Govemor of Bank o %)*ii,,          0



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
Albania SAC: Matrix of Policy Reform Program
Items in italic and bold are core conditions for Board and Second Tranche release. Second tranche is expected to be disbursed six months after Board presentation.
Objectives and Strategy      Actions Already Taken                       Measures in the Letter of Development Policy
A. Maintain Sustainable       *   ESAF Program in Effect                  *   Satisfactory Macroeconomic Framework and Performance
Macroeconomic Framework
B. Reduce Demand on the State Institutions
Complete Privatization       *   Privatized about 200                     Privatize SME
of Enterprises and               enterprises/objects remaining from       *   Complete privatization or liquidation of 200 of the remaining 469 SMEs. Submitfiles of
Banks                            first round of mass privatization.           another 135 of the remaining 469 SMEs to NAP, issue the privatization order for the
*   Submitted files of 70 companies to          same enterprises to NAP, and establish auction timetable for privatization of these
National Agency for Privatization           companies.(Board)
(NAP) in new round, and initiated       *   Complete privatization of all remaining SMEs with the exception of enterprises in the
auction process for 22 companies.           defense and cultural sectors. (2nd tranche)
*   State Committee for Restitution no
longer accepts new claims and the       Privatize Strategic Sectors
Government issued a decree              *   Commence due diligence audit of AMC . (Board)
terminating acceptance of new claims    *   Bring AMC (cellular telecom company) to the point of sale by issuing request for tender
under the restitution process.              proposals. (2nd tranche)
*   Established Inter-Ministerial           *   Complete transformation into joint-stock companies and restructure chrome and copper
Committee for Strategic                     enterprises, including establishing privatization/ liquidation plan for small copper and
Privatization.                              chrome mines (15 and 66, respectively). (Board)
*   Approved Privatization Strategy for     *   Complete privatization or liquidation of I5 small copper and 66 small chrome mines.
telecom and petrol.                         (20d tranche)
*   Passed legislation to liberalize        *   Agree with financial advisers on privatization strategy, including timetable for Albchrome,
mining sector.                              Albbaker, and Albpetrol and approve such strategy. (2nd tranche)
*   Selected preferred bidder for           *   Bring AT to the point of sale by issuing request for tender proposals (2"d tranche)
financial adviser.
Rural Commercial Bank has been          Privatize State Banks
liquidated.                             *   Select strategic investor for the National Commercial Bank (Board)
*   Placed advertisement of intention to    *   Savings Bank to comply fully with the Governance Contract, including preparation of
privatize National Commercial Bank,         options to compensate it for services rendered to the Treasury, with the final objective to
invited interested parties to discuss       privatize this bank. (Board)
with the Ministry of Finance, and       *   Finalize the sale of the government's shares in the NCB to new owners, receive payment
appointed Privatization Advisor.           from the sale and ensure that a new license from the Bank of Albania is issued to NCB.
(2"d tranche)



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
Albania SAC: Matrix of Policy Reform Program
Items in italic and bold are core conditions for Board and Second Tranche release. Second tranche is expected to be disbursed six months after Board presentation.
Objectives and Strategy      Actions Already Taken                        Measures in the Letter of Development Policy
Reduce Public Sector         *   A new tariff structure with moderate     Reduce Interventions in Private Markets
Activities and                   protection for agriculture and food      *   Refrain from re-introducing agriculture price interventions or increasing import tariffs for
Interventions                    products introduced in September,            agricultural products beyond September 1998 levels. (2nd tranche)
1998.                                   *   Continue selling general food aid imports (not targeted directly to refugees) through the use
*   GDSR wheat inventory reduced to             of auction and transfer the proceeds to thc central budgct. (2"' tranche).
14,000 tons in 1998.                    *   Disclose the full audit report of the 1998 audit for the General Directorate of State Reserves
*   Cash transfer under social assistance       (GDSR) and prepare an action plan on implementation of that audit recommendations (2"d
program has substituted Winter              tranche).
Cereal Assistance Program to
northem districts.
*   Funding for GDSR has become
explicit in the 1999 budget.
C. Strengthen State Institutional Capacities
C.1) Strengthen Core Public Sector Functions
Strengthen Legal             *  Law on the Civil Service in the           Strengthen Governance and Institutional Reform Framework
Framework and Core               Republic of Albania (March 21,           *   Issue decree establishing Inter-Ministerial Committee for Institutional and Governance
Institutional Functions          1996).                                       Reform (Board) and soon thereafter issue decree establishing institutional and govemance
*  Various decrees providing more               reform strategy.
specific guidelines regarding            *   Submit to Parliament revised Civil Service Law and begin preparation of the detailed
govemment organization and                   norms and procedures related to that Law that would lay an adequate legalfoundation
personnel management issues.                for competitive, transparent management of the civil service. (Board)
*  Council of Ministers decree
mandating public administration          Strengthen Core Institutional Functions:
reform (March 20, 1998).                 *   Complete the recruitment of 50 civil servants under transparent, competitive, merit-based
*  Deputy Prime Minister/Minister of            procedures as established under the human resources management legisltion in a
Govemment Coordination appointed             manner acceptable to IDA. (2  tranche)
with a mandate that includes leading     *   Issue decree revising public sector salary structure. (2"d tranche)
the public administration reform effort  *   Take steps to integrate the investment and recurrent budget planning process. (2"d tranche)
(April 25, 1998).                        *   Submit to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Policy bi-monthly Budget
*  "Anti-Corruption Workshop" (June             Framework Memorandums (BFM) in 1999 (2nd tranche)
30, 1998), followed by "Anti-            *   Establish sector strategies (in the context of the BFM particularly in health and education)
Corruption Action Plan" Decree               ensuring that the relief aid occasioned by the Kosovo refugee crisis will not undermine
(August 13, 1998).                           sector policies (2"d tranche).
*  New "Organic Budget Law" (30 April       *   Implement public expenditure tracking study on health, public works and local govemment
1998).                                       budget, as the sectors most affected by the Kosovo crisis (2"'d tranche)
*  Established monitoring mechanism for     *   Continue improving coordination and transparency of relief program by implementing
implementation of Govemment's                custom screening, maintaining data base for the aid flows and making the information
"Anti-Corruption Action Plan."               publicly available (2nd tranche).
*   Established Emergency Management



Annex ri
Page 3 of 4
Albania SAC: Matrix of Policy Reform Program
Items in italic and bold are core conditions for Board and Second Tranche release. Second tranche is expected to be disbursed six months after Board presentation.
Objectives and Strategy      Actions Already Taken                       Measures in the Letter of Development Policy
Group for coordination of all          *   Complete functional reviews of Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
intemational and rational refugee           Justice and Ministry of Local Government and begin implementing of recommendations
relief efforts.                             aimed at enhancing policy formulation and coordination capacities and eliminating or
*   Established a budgetary account in          contracting out functions identified as either unnecessary or better undertaken by the
the Savings Bank for all financial aid      private sector. (2"d tranche)
donated to the Government to cover      *   Continue monitoring and publicizing progress on implementation of institutional and
relief efforts.                             governance reform program and make substantial progress on implementation of the
Anticorruption Action Plan inform and substance acceptable to IDA. (2"d tranche)
C.2) Strengthen Public Service Provision Functions
Strengthen Legal and         *   Amendments to the Law on Judicial       Improve Functioning of Judiciary
Judicial Capacities              Organization (December 1998).           *   Draft regulation providing objectives and rules for efficient preparation of court budgets
*   Judiciary Inspection Office began           (Board), prepare training program for court administrators to improve court management
functioning. New internal regulation        and budget processes and start training for court administrators. (2"d tranche).
for the Organization and Functioning   *   Implement regulation for functioning of Inspector's Office under the High Council of
of the High Council of Justice has          Justice, and allocate appropriate office space and budget for Inspector's Office.; make the
been approved in March 1999                 new office space available.(Board)
*   Law establishing Central Budget Unit    *   Prepare re-accreditation testfor allfirst-instance judges with less than 10 years
for Courts (November 1998);                 experience. (Board), complete the test envisaged by Article 48 of the Law of December 28,
Director and some key staff                 1998 and discharge al judges from offwce who have not passed the test by the High
appointed.                                  Council of Justice accordingly. (2d tranche)
*   New correspondence courses              *   Create Ministry of Justice judiciary working group to prepare Action Program to strengthen
abolished since September 1998              enforcement of judicial decisions (Board) and adopt the Action Program (2"d tranche)
(except for MPs).                       *   Adopt legal basis for out-of-court mediation and arbitration and establish Alternative
*   Draft Tirana University Law School          Dispute Resolution Center for commercial transactions. (2"d tranche)
Reform Program under preparation.       *   Implement the recommendations flowing from results of the judicial system survey and of
*   Constitution adopted providing              the court administration study in its High Court and two of its lower courts in form and
adequate legal basis for judicial           substance satisfactory to the IDA. (2"d tranche)
independence, and for publication of
any normative act before its           Improve Quality of Legal Professionals
application (November 1998).            *   Prepare a reform agenda for the Tirana Law School to improve its organization, budget, and
*   Draft regulation for a new State            curriculum and identify new premises. (Board)
Publication Office under preparation.   *   Implement the government Reform Program of the Faculty of Law of the University of
*   Law on Mediation adopted by                 Tirana in form and substance satisfactory to IDA. (2"d tranche)
Parliament on March 11, 1999.
Improve Accessibility of Laws
*   Establish State Publication Office (with an appropriate Legislative/Regulatory structure),
and appoint qualified Director. (Board)
*   Disseminate all normative acts and key judicial decisions to key official users and make
this information accessible to public at large. (2"d tranche)



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
Albania SAC: Matrix of Policy Reform Program
Items in italic and bold are core conditions for Board and Second Tranche release. Second tranche is expected to be disbursed six months after Board presentation.
Objectives and Strategy      Actions Already Taken                       Measures in the Letter of Development Policy
Improve Quality of the Legislative Framework
*   Establish a Law Reform Commission. (2"d tranche)
Ensure Sustainability of     *   The "Law on Social Insurance in         Cease accumulating uncovered liabilities
Public Pensions                  Albania Republic" was amended so        *   Cease to treat budgetary transfers to the Social Insurance Institute for rural pension
that eligibility for retirement benefits    financing as a contribution paid by individual farmers so that accumulation of future
for farmers is conditioned upon their       unfunded liabilities is discontinued. (2"d tranche)
payment of pension insurance
contributions, with appropriate         Start preparing public pension system reform
transitional mechanism.                 *   Initiate preparation of a pension reform framework paper, which shall includefull
actuarial evaluation of the current public pension system and explore optionsfor its
reformn, including (i) eligibility and beneft provisions; (ii) transparent and equitable
transitional mechanisms; (iii) thefiscal costs of each option; (iv) the administrative and
other inplementation arrangements. (Board);
C3) Strengthen Public Institutions Supporting Private Sector Development
Strengthen Financial         *   Loan Collection Agency (LCA) has        Improve the Regulatory Framework
Sector Regulatory                been established with the objective of  *   Start implementing measures to establish a fully functioning payments system. (2nd tranche)
Framework                        handling the orderly disposal of the    *   Further enhance technical and institutional capacities of banking supervision for
bad assets of the state banks. LCA          enforcement of on-site and off-site supervision. (2"d tranche)
started collecting bad loans.           *   Enact into law the draft legislation on secured transactions substantially as agreed with
*   Governance contract signed with             IDA. (2"d tranche)
Savings Bank and being implemented
by a foreign bank.
Develop a Land Market        *   Registration completed in 715           Building Institutions Requirements for Developing a Land Market
'cadastral zones at end December        *   Completefirst- time registration in 750 cadastral units. (Board)
1998.                                  *   Complete first-time registration in 1000 cadastral units. (2"d tranche).
*   Law on Land Transactions adopted        *   Adopt Land Market Action Program ( 1999-2001). (2"d tranche)
(April 1998).                           *   Re-install District Land Commissions to (i) issue land distribution documents and (ii)
*   Law on Leasing State-Owned                  distribute 30 percent of 120,000 ha of undistributed land to individual users or communes.
agricultural Land, Pastures and State       (2"d tranche)
Forests adopted (April 1998).           *   Take inventory of claims of former owners of griculture, forest and pasture land with the
aim to resolve pending compensation issue. (2 tranche)



Annex III
Page 1 of 3
Albania - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate         Projected
Indicator                1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000        2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0       100.0
Agriculture                               55.9    55.4    62.6    60.9    58.6    57.0         55.4
Industry                                  21.3    21.1    18.2    12.3    12.8    13.6         14.5
Services                                  22.7    23.5    19.2    26.9    28.6    29.4         30.2
Total Consumption                          100.7   106.8   109.1   106.6   103.1    101.8       99.9
Gross domestic fixed                        21.3    20.5    16.0    16.0    19.3    18.8        19.1
investment
Governmcnt investmen                      8.5     4.5      4.0     5.0      6.0      6.1       6.2
Private investmcnt                        12.8    16.0    12.0    11.0    13.3    12.7         13.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)"                             13.7    13.7    11.8      8.8     8.8    10.2       10.8
Imports (GNFS)'                             35.7    41.0    36.9    31.4    31.9    30.8        29.8
Gross domestic savings                      -0.7    -6.8    -9.1    -6.6    -3.1       -1.8      0.1
Gross national savingsb                     15.2    11.5      4.1     9.9     8.3    10.3       11.6
Memorandumn ilems
Gross domestic producL                     2422    2689    2292    3059    3774    4121         4588
(US$ million at current
prices)
Real annual growth rates
Gross domestic product at                8.9%    9.1%    -7.0%    8.0%     8.0%     7.0%      7.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                     9.0%    8.9%    -7.1%   10.0%    12.5%    7.6%      6.4%
Real annual per capita
Gross domestic product at                7.3%    7.5%    -8.0%    6.9%     7.1%     6.1%      6.1%
market prices
Total consumption                         0.4%   15.9%    -7.7%    8.4%    5.5%     4.8%      4.5%
Private consumption                      -0.6%   18.2%    -6.3%    9.9%    5.7%     4.6%      4.4%
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current prices)'
Current revenues                           23.9    18.3    16.9    20.3    20.9    21.3        21.7
Current expenditures                       25.8    25.8    25.4    25.6    28.6    23.2        22.4
Current fiscal surplus (+)                 -1.9    -7.5    -8.5    -5.3    -7.7    -1.9        -0.7
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                         8.5     4.5      4.0     5.1     6.0      6.1       6.1
Overall deficit (-)                       -10.4   -12.1   -12.6   -10.4   -13.8    -8.0        -6.8
Domestically financed deficit               6.6    11.0    10.8      6.4     5.5      4.3       3.3



Annex III
Page 2 of 3
Albania - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate         Projected
Indicator                 1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000        2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)"                           330.8   369.6   269.5   268.0   333.0   419.0        496.0
Merchandise FOB                         205.0   229.0   167.0   205.0   234.0   291.0        340.0
Imports (GNFS)'                           864.8  1104.6   842.5   960.0  1205.0  1268.0    1367.0
Merchandise FOB                         679.0   921.0   685.0   826.0  1060.0  1088.0    1186.0
Rcsource balance                         -534.0  -735.0  -573.0  -692.0  -872.0  -849.0    -871.0
Net current transfers                     326.6   427.5   250.0   440.0   375.0   440.0        470.0
(including off'icial current transfers)
Current account balance                   -176.0  -245.0  -276.0  -187.0  -440.0  -350.0    -344.0
(after of'ficial capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                 89.0    97.0    42.0    45.0    43.0       85.0       90.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                       73.0   109.0    61.0   107.0   181.0   132.0        113.0
Off'icial                                 102.0   103.0    60.0   107.0   181.0   132.0        113.0
Private                                  -29.0      2.0      1.0     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
Other capital (net, including               40.0    82.0   200.0   106.0   202.0    156.0       181.0
elTors and omissions)
Change in rcservcsd                        -26.0   -43.0   -27.0   -71.0    14.0   -23.0        -40.0
Memnrandum ite,ns
Current account balance t% of              -7.3%   -9.1%   -12.0%   -6.1 %   -11.7%    -8.5%    -7.5%
GDP at current market prices)
Off'icial reserves (months of imports)        3.4     3.1      4.5     4.7      3.7     3.7        3.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)          47.8    55.0    58.0    51.7    50.3    49.9         49.7
Growth of M2 (%)                           38.2    25.6    -1.0    -1.1       3.3      5.9        6.0
Private sector credit/GDP (%)               0.5      0.9     0.6      1.2     1.4       1.5       1.6
Price indices( 1993 =100)
Merchandise exports                        99.8   111.7   147.5   154.8   156.9    160.9        165.3
Merchandise imports                        98.6   111.3   147.5   154.8   156.9    160.9        165.3
Merchandise terms of trade                 101.2   100.4   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        100.0
Real exchange rate (LCU/US$)'             137.9   134.1   122.6   147.0   132.8   134.3         135.1
Real interest rates'                       6.8%    8.7%     1.8%    7.6%     9.3%     9.5%      9.7%
Consumer price index (% growth)            6.0%   17.4%    42.1%    8.7%     7.0%     5.0%      3.0%
GDPdeflator(% growth)                      9.8%   14.6%    29.7%   20.9%     9.1%     5.6%      4.9%
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
c. Central government only.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in LCU/US$ denotes depreciation.
f. Calculated based on 12-month T-bill rates.



Annex III
Page 3 of 3
Albania - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate         Projected
Indicator              1995    1996    1997    1998       1999    2000    2001
Total debt outstanding and             710     751      768      882    1068    1192    1290
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)"
Net disbursements (USSm)              -105      40       85      114      186      124       98
Total debt service (TDS)                 7      34       48        17      27       34       34
(USSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGS"                           144.2   119.1    96.6    116.9   146.7   136.0   132.4
TDO/GDP                             29.3    27.9    33.5    28.8    28.3    28.9    28.1
TDS/XGSh                              1.5     5.3      6.0      2.2      3.8      4.5      4.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS'                  N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A
IDA TDO (US$m)                       109      139      155     229      309      354      394
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                  0        0        0        0      1.2       0        0
Equity and quasi-equity                0        0        0      5.1        0       0        0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$r)                 0        0        0        0       0        0        0
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes expons of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. "N/A" denotes non-applicable.



Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.  Time taken to prepare:                   5 months
2.  Prepared by:                             Government of Albania with the
assistance of IBRD/IDA staff
3.  Preparation missions:                    November 15, 1998
4.  Appraisal mission:                       March 1, 1999
5.  Negotiations:                            April 27 1999
6.  Planned Board presentation:              June 3, 1999
7.  Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1999
8.  Expected program completion:             December 2000



Annex V
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANIA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS i
(As of May 1, 1999)
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                                                         (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year       Borrower                     Project                              Credit    Undisbursed&
2499      1993      Republic of Albania   Transport                                       18.0          .65
2534      1994      Republic of Albania   Housing                                         15.0          .91
2543      1994       Republic of Albania  Social Safety Net                                5.5          .46
2544      1994      Republic of Albania   Labor Market Development                         5.4          .67
2610      1994      Republic of Albania   Durres Water Supply                             11.6         3.83
2633      1994      Republic of Albania   School Rehab. and Capacity Building              9.6         1.10
2646      1995      Republic of Albania   Technical Assistance for Tax Modernization       4.0         1.71
2652      1995      Republic of Albania  Irrigation Rehabilitation                        10.0          .16
2659      1995      Republic of Albania   Health Services Rehabilitation                  12.4         7.17
2680      1995      Republic of Albania   Rural Development                                6.0          .63
2732      1995      Republic of Albania   Rural Roads                                     15.0         2.77
2770      1996      Republic of Albania   Urban Works and Microenterprise                  4.0          .43
2795      1996      Republic of Albania   Agroprocessing Development                       6.0         2.05
2826      1996      Republic of Albania   Power Transmission and Distribution             29.5        19.50
2846      1996      Republic of Albania   Forestry                                         8.0         5.15
2888      1996       Republic of Albania   National Roads                                 25.0        19.57
3016      1998      Albania              Recovery Program for Technical Assistance         5.0         3.75
3038      1998      Ministry of Finance   Private Industry Recovery                       10.25        8.22
3066      1998       Min. of Construction  Land Development                               10.00        9.68
3067      1998      Gov. of Albania       Health Recovery and Development                 17.00       16.71
3068      1998      Gov. of Albania      Durres Port                                     17.00        17.09
3164      1999      Gov. of Albania      Community Works*                                  9.00        8.82
Total                                                                                   253.25       131.03
*Not yet effective
Active Proiects     Closed Projects      Total
Total Disbursed                           117.25               113.12         230.37
Of Which: Repaid                      0.00                 0.00            0.00
Total Now Held by IDA                    253.25                112.47         365.72
Total Amount Sold                           0.00               0.00            0.00
Of Which: Repaid                      0.00                 0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed                         131.03                  .70          131.73
a/      The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
The undisbursed amounts are the US$ millions equivalent of the amount in SDR at the exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1998



Annex V
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC's INVESTMENTS
As of 3 I-Mar-99
(in US Dollar Millions)
Comnitted                           Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company           Loan      Equity   Quasi    Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                AAP                        0.00    28.50     0.00      0.00    0.00    5.11     0.00     0.00
1999                 SEF Eurotech              1.20     0.00     0.00      0.00    1.20       0     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                    1.20    28.50    0.00      0.00    1.20     5.11    0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Eauity   Quasi    Partic
1998                PATOS MARINZA             30.00     0.00     0.00     50.00
Total Pending Commitment:         30.00     0.00     0.00     50.00



Annex VI
Page 1 of 2
Albania at a glance                                                               5/1'99
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central     Low-
Albania      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        3.3       476     2048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USs,                    760      2,320       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions;                       2.5     1,106       722                       T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         0.3       0.2       2.1
Labor force (%)                                       -2.9       0.5       2 3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line,  20
Urban population (% of total population;               38         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               33         25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5,               .         .         .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                      71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+j                               .        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population;  87         92        91   1Abania
Male                                                                    o100                  Low-income group
Female                                                                   81     __
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..      2.2       2.7       2.3
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                  ..    30.9       20.5      16.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..    15.1       13.7      11.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..    30.5       -6.8      -9.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       .        1.5       4.1
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -0 1        -9.0     -11.9    Domestic   j
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      0.0       0.6       0.9     Savings                 -    Investment
Total debVGDP                                  ..      0.0      27.9      33.5
Total debt service/exports                     ..      0.0       3.9       6.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..               28.2
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        .      87.7
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth,
GDP                                 2.0      -1.9      9.1      -7.0        ..                   Albania
GNP per capita                       ..       2.2      7.9      *7.3                             Low-income group
Exports ot goods and services        ..    18.3       12.4     -21.3        ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                __
1976     1986      1996      1997   [ Growth rates of output and Investment (%I
(% of GDP)                                                                         250
Agriculture                                    ..    34.0       55.4      62.6    200 -
Industry                                       ..    44.2       21.1      18.2    Iso _
Manufacturing                                                                    *o +        , 00_
Services                                       ..    21.8       23.5      19.2      s0 i-    /           _.
0 
Private consumption                            ..    60.2       94.1      97.6     *s0     92    3   94   Ds geo    7
General government consumption                 ..      9.3      12.6      11.4                -GD            I  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    15.5        41.0      36.9
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth,
Agriculture                                   2.8      5.7       8.1       5.0    3000
Industry                                      1.9    -12.0       7.7    -19.4    250
Manufacturing                                ..       ..                        200
Services                                      1.2     -1.3      12.9     -24.2    so
Private consumption                            ..      6.2      19.9      -5.3    so0A 1
General govemment consumption                  ..    -5.0        2.6    -17.2       a
Gross domestic investment                     0.1     20.7       7.1     -28.9    so           of             95 
Imports of goods and services                  ..    21.1       27.6     -17.6            -Exports             imporns
Gross national product                         ..      2.5       9.1      -7.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex VI
Page 2 of 2
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation%
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                    12.7     32.1    200
Implicit GDP deflator                                   -2.4      14.6      30.8    :50.
Government finance                                                                     o4
(%O of GDP, includes current,grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                         48.7       18.3     16.9              92    W    94   YS   96   i7
Current budget balance                                  25.0       -7.5     -8.5              *--GDP deflator    .CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -0. 1     -11.9    -12.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USSmn)
Total exports (fob)                                     311        229       167     ,ooo
Minerals and fuels                                                39        46
Food, beverage, and tabacco                                       25        18      F00
Manufactures                                                     152        99       fiO
Total imports (cifl                                     317        921       685       400        *        I r lil
Food                                                             323       164
Fuel and energy                                                   so        71       a.
Capital goods                                                    204        99         a
SI   1(2  95I  54   15    90   9
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         .,       ..                  Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (h)
Exports of goods and services                           327        370       270       0
Imports of goods and services                           336      1,104       843
Resource balance                                         -9       -734      -576
Net income                                                0         64        51       LJ
Net current transfers                                              428       250     -                   H               
Current a-xount balance                                   -3      -242      -276      40
Financinq items (net)                                     2        290       295      50
Changes in net reserves                                   1        -48       -19     -i0
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..       323       342
Conversion rate (DEC, localYUS$)                  .      8.0     104.5    149 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             0        0        781       768
IBRD                                           0        0          0               Composition ot total debt 1996 (USS millions)
IDA                                            0        0        139       155
Total debt service                               0        0         34        37
OBRD                                           0        0          0
IDA                                            0        0          1         1                                      05
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             _
Official grants                                0        0         77       7F co    D.12
Official creditors                             0        0         83       64
Private creditors                              0        0          2        -2
Foreign direct investment                                        97        42
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0                                   221
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0         63       40      A- IBRD                       E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        0         32        16     B-IDA     D-Other multilateral   F Private
Principal repayments                           0        0          0         0     c- IMF                        G0 Short-term
Net flows                                      0        0         32        16
Interest payments                              0        0          1         1
Net transfers                                  0        0         31        15
Development Economics                                                                                                   5/11/99



MAP SECTioN



IBRD 28467R
. 18 30'   J            19o00                    19 30                   20 00                    2?0                    21 00
i\    s_ {                                                       4-g-u;    FED.                REP.                   YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA i                                                                            f\ (SERBIA / MO  TEN EGRO)
42'00 1                                                                                                                                           42230
C-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
A   SVLECTED Ct                                                                                                            ;    0
0    DSTtCan CENfES .: >   . 
NATIONAL CAPITAL    -         -    -   r   Si.   ,
RAfLPOAK     S   , 
c ~  ~    ~    ~      OiVERS          Fsh   ,<?             /    A- h-                    /1 e.  .e,4
- DISTRTiCT BOUJNDARIES -   4M, - hT- X. ? 
ALBANIA                                         .~   ubA:Nz                                                    MACEDONIA
4200                                                                                                                                         4200~20
L ~~-     NATONA _OAD                          -                                                r '0.-o
~~~~DITRC ,ONAE                                         'P                 ~        q    P   p   . :~            'A
-hwoefipoWniSrfptX/dBd - INToEy ,.RNATlONA BOUNDX . w X a-ARIE  - - o  i-   K 5 JE \  -4itMA  -K
..              RO2AN0                                   Vo,0    TI -                              <J  n         A E O I
,,   ., TALY ,_,<3ULGARIA  ,           -    ~~~~    +                *             ,   \            GA RE EC E  
41 '00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-0
O    00   sp   AO   A0                                    FII E
K0IOMSEPES
Drop,, oryjo4gmstomda9gdsofo~~~~!arUop,oroDpr
18~030                                                                                                                            1998
AD'SO'.  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (A-cs ~~~~~~~~~40 30~
0RWEDEN   /   <~\Q~~-~RUSSIANVIr
D   ltP WEDENt         LATVIA\   FED
D4N"-K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LITHUANIA
GERMAGNY                 e '
. POLAND             -..a
ku       CZ~~ERCH     .( 
Y'OLCM0LD VA'\                                                  I
AUSIFR0A                         40 2'
US9jiHUNGARY /                                                                                                                   4000
r  ~     - COATIA    <    ROMANIA                                                       J -EE'
-C ISEPBPONT 1( EBIJLGARIASto                                                                           GREECE
C TREERC&OkURKEYf
0               -    -             20' tSr                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20"30  2110
JULY 1998



