Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 22502
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-323 10)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.2 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
06/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Lek
147.8 Lek = US$ I
US$ I = 147.8 Lek
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC          Albanian Mobile Phone Company
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEM          Country Economic Memorandum
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           European Union
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GPRS         Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MTEF         Medium-Term Public Expenditure Framework
NAP          National Agency for Privatization
NCB          National Commercial Bank
OSCE         Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PESC         Public Expenditure Support Credit
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC         Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SME          Medium Scale Enterprise
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mansour Farsad



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
Structural Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Commnents                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                            13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 25
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P055160                                       Project Name: Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Mansour Farsad                               TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type. Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Structural Adjustment Credit                   L/C/TFNumber: IDA-32310
CountryIDepartment: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/11/1999                               Effective: 08/09/1999         08/09/1999
Appraisal:  02/19/1999                                MTR:
Approval:  06/03/1999                               Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIAIMINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Cotuntry Manager:    Christiaan Poortman                        Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:      Pradeep Mitra                              Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:   Mansour Farsad                            Mansour Farsad
ICR Primary Author:   Arntraud Hartmann
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Albania pursued prudent macroeconomic policies in the early years of its transition (1993-1995), which
resulted in a quick rebound of economic growth following a severe drop in output in 1992, declining levels
of inflation, and lower budget and current account deficits. These positive trends ceased in late 1996, when
the Government of Albania pursued expansionary fiscal policies and slowed momentum of the structural
reform measures. The collapse of the pyramid schemes in early 1997 compounded the change in policy
direction plunging Albania into a deep economic crisis. Public order broke down, economic activities
stalled, and the local currency, the lek, depreciated sharply. In response, the IMF supported a six-month
program under the post-conflict emergency policy, followed by a comprehensive ESAF program. Albania
experienced briefly political tunnoil again in September 1998, but stability was restored after a change in
Government. The Kosovo crisis, which erupted in March 1999, and the large influx of refugees placed a
considerable strain on and renewed uncertainties about Albania's economy.
The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was launched in the Kosovo crisis period. The objective of the
SAC was to support the Govenmment's efforts toward the restoration of sustained growth and improved
living standards through reforms that enhance Government functioning and strengthen the environment for
more efficient private sector development. Strengthening Govemance and public institutions was the
centerpiece of the program with the specific objectives of improving public service delivery and increasing
the accountability and transparency of Govermment Institutions. It was envisioned that as privatization
progressed, the demand on the public sector would be reduced. The SAC objectives were consistent with
the priorities laid out in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY1999-01. The CAS priorities
included emphases on governance and institution building, sustainable private sector growth and human
development and poverty alleviation.
The SAC was designed to be part of a broader assistance program consisting of adjustment, investment and
technical assistance operations that was closely coordinated with other donors. The main policy objectives
supported by the SAC were suitable in the context of Albania at that time and included: (i) adopting and
maintaining macroeconomic conditions supporting stable growth; (ii) reducing demand on state institutions,
(iii) strengthening state institutional capacity. The SAC was an integral part of the IMF Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) for FY1999-2001 and subsequently of the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) for FY2000-01. See IMF Report-Albania-Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV
Consultation, Request for the Second Annual Arrangement Under the ESAF, Request for Augmentation, May
28,1999, and ALBANIA-ESAF Policy Framework Paper (1999-2001), June 2, 1999. The Policy Framework
Paper prepared for the ESAF lays out structural adjustment measures supported by both the SAC and the
IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions.
3.3 Original Components:
The SAC policy matrix had three components: (1) Maintain a Sustainable Macroeconomic Framework;
(2) Reduce Demand on State Institutions, which included completion of a phase of privatization of
enterprises and banks; and (3) Strengthen State Institutional Capacities, which included strengthening core
public sector functions and the legal framework and judicial capacities, ensuring sustainability of public
pensions, strengthening the financial sector regulatory framework and developing a land market. The SAC
was provided as budget support. The following description of the components show how the design of the
SAC was based on the specific circumstances in Albania was formulated in a collaborative process with
the Govemment authorities. The estimated allocations by main component are in parentheses.
- 2 -



Maintain a Sustainable Macroeconomic Framework
The Albania SAC was approved by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors in June 1999, near the
end of the Kosovo Crisis. The SAC helped Albania remain on a solid growth path with sound
macroeconomic policies. The SAC and the IMF's ESAF program included improved fiscal revenue
collection to ensure prudent fiscal management with expenditures allocated to priority activities such as
basic social services (education, health, water supply) and maintenance of public infrastructure. In
addition, improved public expenditures management, adequate monetary policies and structural measures
considered essential for sustainability of macroeconomic stability.
Reduce Demand on State Institutions ($15 million)
Privatization. Albania proceeded rapidly with privatization in the early years of transition (1993-95), with
ownership transfer -albeit without titles-of most agricultural land to small private farmers, and a large
number of small enterprises either liquidated or transferred to private owners. The privatization momentum
slowed and came to a halt during late 1996 and the 1997 civil disturbances. A key reform element of the
SAC was to complete privatization of the small and medium scale enterprise (SME) sector and to begin
privatization of the financial sector.  The program  also included measures to privatize the
telecommunications sector. Over 80 percent of the banking system's assets in 1999 were held by two
state-owned banks, the Savings Bank and the National Commercial Bank (NCB). A third state bank, the
Rural Commercial Bank, was liquidated in December 1997. The state-owned banks had incurred
significant losses mainly owing to their large, non-performing loan portfolios. Given the political risks in
Southeast Europe in June 1999 after the Kosovo hostilities, the privatization program faced considerable
uncertainties, especially in the telecommunications sector, where international tendering for strategic
investors was about to be launched.
Strengthen State Institutional Capacities ($30 million)
Strengthen Core Public Service Functions. Achieving sustainable growth and reducing poverty in
participatory processes in Albania required stronger public institutions. Public institutions in Albania were
exceptionally weak compared to neighboring countries in Southeast Europe. Public service provision in
Albania was seriously undermined by high levels of corruption, a civil service based on political spoils
rather than merit, and a lack of social cohesion to support public institutions. Living conditions in rural
areas was characterized by inadequate provision of health and sanitation services, and drinking water.
Private sector development was adversely affected by non-functioning legal and judiciary systems, corrupt
and inefficient public administration, and the lack of enforcement of contracts through judicial or
arbitration systems. Private sector surveys had identified incompetent and corrupt public administrations,
non-functioning judicial systems and high levels of crime as the major obstacle to more substantial
investment, especially foreign investment.
The SAC supported major policy reform measures, particularly in the civil service and in legal/judicial
framework and capacity to address these issues. These measures were part of broader reform efforts
supported through additional IDA credits, the IMF ESAF program, and numerous bilateral programs, such
as the EU, the Council of Europe, and the Governments of Denmark and Italy.
Sustainability of Public Pensions. Public pensions in Albania have been the core social protection
program, comprising over 40 percent of social spending and have been an important source of income for
about 15 percent of the population. The public pension system has been a defined benefit system, financed
- 3-



from payroll contributions on a pay-as-you-go basis. The system has been financially unsustainable and
depends on substantial fiscal transfers. The system has required a full actuarial evaluation and a reform
strategy, which would require substantial time. Preparation work was to be initiated under the SAC
program.
Land Market Measures. After the change from a socialist to a market economy, Albania distributed all
agricultural land in public hands to private farmers. However, private farmers did not receive ownership
title for the land because Albania had no land registration nor cadastre system. The lack of land registries
impeded the development of a land market because ownership could not be verified. The absence of a land
market also prevented land consolidation into larger farmns. The small sizes of agricultural units, and low
levels of investment and mechanization have been major reasons for low productivity. The Govermment
originally adopted a Land Market Action Program in 1993 with the aim of establishing first-time
registration of all real estate properties by end 1998. The program was significantly delayed partly because
of the 1997 civil disturbances. Under the SAC the government agreed to complete registration for 1,000
cadastre units.
In summary, the SAC design was appropriate because it focused on strengthening institutional capacities
which hampered development efforts in Albania. The emphasis on accelerating privatization of banks and
enterprises was appropriate considering that these structural improvements were key to laying foundations
for private sector development and for future growth. The SAC also emphasized the use of public resources
to service delivery and other pre-requisites to economic transformation, including a land registration
program to secure ownership of land.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the quality of entry of the SAC satisfactory (April 2000). The
QAG review endorsed the objectives and priorities of the operation and found the preparation of the reform
components in the policy matrix and all major aspects to be satisfactory. The QAG report stressed,
however, that due to the complex and long-term nature of governance reform, the SAC would have
benefited from a better-articulated strategy for Governance reform. Although the QAG observed that there
had been no detrimental effects to date as a result of a lack of a more strategic approach, there was a risk to
the sustainability of reforms in future years because clear strategic choices had not been laid out.
Subsequent to the QAG, additional clarity in governance reform has been achieved through a continuing
dialog with the Bank and through successful implementation of the reform program, including
implementation of the Legal and Judicial Reform Technical Assistance Credit. The ICR concurs with the
QAG assessment at entry of the SAC as satisfactory. The preparation process of the SAC was satisfactory
and the Government and the IDA staff were fully engaged in that process. When obstacles were
encountered they were overcome in a collaborative manner. The IDA technical work on privatization key
strategic enterprises and banks and civil service reform was highly appreciated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the SAC were achieved with significant development impact. The Government, with the
help of the SAC, has made substantial progress in moving from an environment where major institutions
were not functioning properly to institutions that are on track in the financial, legal, judicial and civil
service areas and are gaining public trust.  This progress has been seen in privatizing the
telecommunications and financial sectors. These major privatizations boosted the confidence of foreign
-4 -



investors, and are expected to favorably affect future major privatization in the enterprise and financial
sectors. Important, gradual progress has been made in the strengthening of public sector institutions.
Reform measures agreed under the SAC have been fully implemented both for the civil service and for the
legal/judicial reforn program. These reform measures are part of a long term institution building agenda
which is supported through several complementary IDA lending and technical assistance instruments
closely coordinated with the multinational and bilateral donor community. The public institution building
measures supported under the SAC are part of this broader long-term agenda and need to be evaluated in
this context. The structural reform issues addressed under the SAC are essential to assure sustainable
growth and poverty alleviation. The SAC complemented the IMF ESAF and PRGF programs to support
macroeconomic stability and growth in Albania. During the SAC period, the Albanian authorities
continued prudent macroeconomic management and achieved substantial progress in establishing
macroeconomic stability and reviving real growth.
4.2 Outputs b1 components:
Maintain a Sustainable Macroeconomic Framework
Tight fiscal and monetary policies helped achieve low levels of inflation, a stable exchange rate, a
comfortable level of foreign reserves and gradual reductions in the domestically financed budget deficit.
Real GDP growth was about 7 percent in 1999 and 7.8 percent in 2000. Stronger than expected private
investment and consumption, helped by a sharp rise in private remittances, reflected improved confidence in
the economy. The electricity shortage, however, threatened the rapid growth. The balance of payments
situation, which deteriorated slightly in 1999 due to the Kosovo conflict, improved in 2000 owing to higher
inflows of remittances and privatization receipts. The current account deficit in 2000 declined by about 1
percentage point to 7 percent of GDP. In 2000, official transfers were about 3 percentage points of GDP
while foreign reserves stood at about 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.
Inflation, measured by the consumer price index, continued to decline to zero percent (year-on-year) by
December 2000, because of monetary restraint. The impressive revenue performance has supported the
reduction in macro imbalances reducing the primary balance by 2 percentage points of GDP between 1999
and 2000 and the domestically financed fiscal deficit declined from 5.5 percent of GDP in 1999 to 5
percent in 2000. In 2000, the Government, with support from the World Bank, prepared a Medium-Tenn
Public Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which provided a basis for strategic prioritization and
rationalization of public expenditures. The MTEF is an essential element of the Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS) presently under preparation. In light of the stabilization measures and the
results, this component is rated satisfactory.
Table 1: Basic Macroeconomic Indicators 1993-2001
Indicator          1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Real GDP(/)         9.7      9.6     9.1     9.3    -7.1      8.0      7.3     7.8      7.3
Inflation (%)       31.0   15.0      5.0    17.0    42.0      8.7    -1.0      4.2      3.0
Broad Money         73.0   40.0    50.0    43.0    25.0    20.7    22.3    12.0    10.4
Growth (%)
Domestically         9.1    6.9      6.8    10.7    10.7      6.4      5.2     3.2      2.9
financed budget
deficit
Gross Official       140    200      230     260      290     384     481      608     650
Reserves
Current Account    29.5    14.0      7.0      8.5    12.0     6.1      8.0     8.1      8.7
Deficit        I__
Source: Albanian Authorities and staff estimates.
-5 -



Reduce Demand on State Institutions
Privatization. The NCB was successfully sold to a consortium of the IFC, the EBRD, and Kent Bank.
Shares have been transferred and the Bank of Albania has approved the ownership title of the shares of the
NCB and has issued a banking license to the NCB under this new ownership. As the first privatization of a
publicly-owned bank in Albania, it was milestone and it established an important precedent for the
privatization of the Savings Bank which is now under preparation. The completion of this first
privatization required substantial political will, especially because of the added difficulties of hostilities in
Kosovo.  Albanian authorities showed determination in their efforts to continue financial sector
privatization even throughout these challenging months.
Equally successful was the issuing of a first mobile phone license of Albanian Mobile Phone Company
(AMC) through international competitive tendering. The tendering was completed in June 2000 and the
license was issued to a group of experienced foreign operators. A second license has also been tendered
and issued. Both licenses generated significant public revenues. The privatization of Albania's fixed line
system is now under preparation. A privatization law has been approved by Parliament and the "due
diligence" process to prepare for international tendering has commenced.
Privatization objectives in the small and medium enterprise sector were fully achieved, but proved difficult.
All remaining SMEs in state-ownership have been privatized or liquidated with the exception of about 50
enterprises in the defense and cultural sectors, which will continue to be state owned. However, many of
the SMEs could not fnd private investors and needed to be liquidated. Privatization of the following
companies was carried out through an international competitive bidding process: a cement factory was sold
to a British-Lebanese consortium in August 2000; a pharmaceutical company, and dairy and wine
enterprises were sold to local investors; and the Tirana Brewery was sold to an Italian company.
Under the SAC, privatization of small copper and small chrome mines was completed. All 15 small copper
mines have been privatized. Of the 66 small chrome mines, 34 have been transferred to the private sector
and the rest were transferred to the National Agency for Privatization for sale. Since there were no buyers,
these mines were closed and the assets liquidated. Because of the substantial progress in privatization and
the significant revenue generation, this component is rated satisfactory.
Strengthen State Institutional Capacities
Significant progress in civil service, judicial/legal, and pension reform and in land market development
justifies a satisfactory rating for this component.
Strengthen Core Public Service Functions. While policy measures agreed under the SAC were mostly
carried out, progress in the public administration and legal/judicial reform components was cumbersome
and needed intensive supervision by the Bank staff. Reform efforts were affected by the inter-ministerial
nature of public administration and civil service reforms.
A much improved Law on Civil Servants became effective in January 2000. The Government launched
recruitment and selection efforts to fill 124 vacancies within the civil service. After some delays in forning
the Civil Service Commission, 50 of those positions had been filled by December 2000. For these
recruitments procedures established by the Law on Civil Servants and the Decree on recruitment and
selection were strictly followed, including advertising, long-listing by the Department of Public
- 6 -



Administration, short-listing by representative committees and final selection by the relevant supervisor.
Any position for which fewer than four qualified candidates applied was re-advertised. The Department of
Public Administration has since assessed the process and has introduced important measures consistent
with the letter and spirit of the Law on Civil Servants to improve the process.
Judicial and legal reforms.  The testing of all judges with less than ten years experience for
re-accreditation was a major step to ensure a minimum standard of judges qualification. The test was
administered in May 1999. Five judges failed and 25 judges refused to take the test. Failing judges were
allowed to retake the test, while judges who did not take the test were dismissed. A system of periodic
performance evaluation has since been developed by the Judicial Inspection Panel. Reforms at the Tirana
Law School went more slowly than expected. An action plan was formally adopted in March 2000,
outlining a series of reforms and improvements over a two-year period, including faculty training,
examination systems, curriculum and administrative reforms, capping class size, and improvements in
teaching facilities and equipment. The implementation of this action plan has begun and is supported by
the IDA financed Legal and Judicial Technical Assistance Credit. Numerous other reform efforts for
judicial and legal reforms are ongoing. Given the number of bilateral and multilateral donors involved in
judicial/legal reforms and institution building measures, coordination has become time consuming.
Building a sound judicial and legal system in Albania will remain a long-term development agenda to which
the SAC program with its limited time horizon could make a modest contribution.
The Government has continued to monitor and publicize efforts on the implementation of the
Anti-Corruption Action Plan. This Action Plan was adopted in June 1998. Follow-up of this Action Plan
was initially weak. The donor community responded to a January 2000 progress report with requests for a
stronger commitment, clearer priorities, and more effective oversight, coordination, and monitoring of the
anti-corruption effort. The Government revised its anti-corruption strategy and coordination arrangements
to address donor concerns. A new Minister of State was charged with leading this effort and has pursued it
with greater energy.  A September 2000 donor meeting on the anti-corruption effort noted that
anti-corruption issues were taken up with significantly more dedication.
Sustainability of Public Pensions. The pension system faces a number of pressures. The pension system's
deficit is large (I percentage point of GDP) and rural pensions contribute to this deficit because they are
largely financed by budgetary subsidies. Although the social insurance contribution rates are high, the
participation is low. In addition, the real purchasing power of pensioners during retirement does not grow
as real wages grow. Under the SAC, the Government undertook a technical analysis of the pension system
to explore development options. This analysis has provided a basis for designing a comprehensive reform
of the public pension system with the objective to make it fiscally sustainable. The Govenunent also
stopped treating budgetary transfers to the Social Insurance Institute for rural pension financing as a
contribution paid by individual farmers. In this way the budget financing of rural pension has been
considered as subsidies from the state budget, which has effectively halted the accumulation of unfunded
liabilities.
Land Market Measures. The targets established under the SAC program for completion of land
registration were achieved, although progress in land registration has somewhat slowed since the
completion of the SAC. Government established a Land Market Action Program (1999-2001) and is
registering about 20,000 land transactions every year. Land distribution documents continue to be issued
and to date over 96 percent of farmers have received them. The process has slowed down owing to ongoing
work on the adoption of the Decentralization Strategy, which would affect asset holdings of the communes,
municipalities, districts and regions. An IDA-supported Agricultural Service Project, presently under
preparation, is expected to provide assistance to the Central Registry Office to accelerate the registration
-7 -



process.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development inpact:
SAC policy measures have had and will continue to have a significant impact on developing institutional
capacities in Albania. Institutional strengthening was achieved through (i) civil service reform by
introducing a merit-based, professional civil service, which provides the human resources required for the
functioning of public institutions; (ii) fundamental reforms in the judicial system by improving the quality,
accountability and transparency of the judiciary; and (iii) strengthening the budgetary process by
introducing the MTEF, streamlining budgetary processes, assuring the allocation of public resources in line
with established priorities, and increasing transparency and accountability in the use of public resources.
The SAC institution building measures are part of a broader agenda that are supported by many other
donors and need to be evaluated in this context. The SAC program strongly supported and moved forward
several essential elements in the institutional building process, such as the implementation of the civil
service law, visible improvements in the budgetary process and politically sensitive but important quality
improvement measures in judicial reform, such as the testing of judges.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or inmplementing agency:
Despite the challenges resulting from an influx of 450,000 refugees from Kosovo during the first half of
1999, macroeconomic management continued to be prudent. The SAC was approved in June 1999 at a
time when the Kosovo hostilities were drawing to a close, but there remained high risks of instability.
Implementation of the SAC was aided by the quick resolution of the Kosovo crisis and the rapid return of
refugees during summer 1999. The quick return of relative stability in the region helped Albanian
authorities focus on their internal reform agenda and make significant progress, especially in privatization.
5.2 Factors generally stubject to government control:
The Government demonstrated clear commitment to move ahead with reform measures. The Kosovo crisis
caused delays in administrative and judicial/legal reforms and in implementing the anti-corruption program.
A new Government was formed in fall 1999 and by spring 2000 the Government moved ahead more
forcefully with these reform measures. The new Prime Minister gave strong support to these reforms,
which were difficult as they required intense inter-ministerial coordination.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance was the main counterpart institution for the SAC and worked effectively,
especially in areas which were directly under the Ministry's specific authority, such as banking
privatization, public expenditures and fiscal policy. The SAC program benefited from, as well as
contributed to, constructive collaboration between Albanian authorities and the Bank/Fund. One area that
could have moved somewhat faster was the drafting of the subsidiary legislation for civil service reform.
This would have hastened the recruitment of the 50 civil servants, which ultimately took nearly one year
longer than originally expected.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
-8 -



The SAC was a two-tranche adjustment operation with a total of $45 million equivalent IDA credit (SDR
33.2 million), which provided for budget support to the Government of Albania. The first tranche of
US$20 million was released upon effectiveness on August 9, 1999. The second tranche was released on
December 22, 2000. Subsequent to negotiations and processing of the SAC to the Board, supplemental
financing was provided by the Swiss Government ($2.8 million equivalent) and the Norwegian Government
(US$1.9 million equivalent) to support of the overall reform program of the Government. These funds were
disbursed following release of the second tranche.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustainability rating:
Macroeconomic stabilization has been successfully maintained in Albania since 1997, and there are no
signs that macroeconomic management will change. Structural reforms implemented under the SAC are at
advance stages and not likely to be reversed. The privatization of the NCB and the privatization of the
AMC were significant precedents which will facilitate future major privatization in the telecommunications
and financial sectors. Reforms in public administration, the legal and judicial system, and pensions are
important, but their long-term value will depend on the continued success of the medium-term institutional
development agenda. Agricultural reforms are likely to be sustained because the Government has refrained
from re-introducing agriculture price interventions and increasing import tariffs for agricultural products.
The economy has demonstrated impressive growth since the 1997 civil disturbances. However, this
economic growth will lead to equitable growth and poverty alleviation only if public institutions can deliver
essential public services in a transparent and accountable manner. The IDA and IMF assistance program,
in close collaboration with other major donors, such as the EU, USAID and other bilateral donors, have
aligned their assistance programs according to these priorities. The continuity of the reform efforts initiated
under the SAC has also been supported by other IDA credits including technical assistance projects on
public administration and legal and judicial reforms. The success of the institutional and governance reform
agenda will depend on the effectiveness of donor assistance, and the ability of Albania to combat organized
crime, which threatens to undermine any broader institutional reform agenda. IDA's assistance efforts in
this area are important but are not alone sufficient to ensure success of Albania's institutional/govemance
reform agenda.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SAC was an integral part of a broad based lending program as defined in the CAS (1999-2001) and
updated after the Kosovo Crisis in the CAS Progress Report. Important complementary operations are the
technical assistance projects for the Legal/Judicial System (IDA Credit No. 33270) and for Public
Administration Reform (IDA Credit No. 33280), both approved in FY 2000. The Poverty Reduction
Strategy Credit (PRSC) and the IMF PRGF will continue to support structural adjustment measures.
Subsequent subsidiary legislation is needed for Albania to establish, over time, a more de-politicized,
professional and merit-based civil service. Albania's long-term goal of joining the European Union will
require the Government to continue its measures to establish a functioning judiciary and sound public
administration.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation of the lending operation was satisfactory. The CEM and the Public Expenditure and
Investment Review were pivotal in the preparation of the SAC and directing policy discussion on
institutional reform as the number one priority. The appraisal of the SAC was completed shortly before the
-9-



outbreak of the Kosovo crisis in March 1999. Due to the large increase of refugees during the military
hostilities in Kosovo, it was highly uncertain whether reform measures could be implemented by the
Government within the timetable agreed during the appraisal mission. With the outbreak of the Kosovo
crisis, the SAC effectiveness was therefore temporarily delayed and intermediate budgetary assistance was
provided under the Public Expenditure Support Credit (PESC). This assistance program was highly
effective and helped maintain the reform momentum in the face of the challenges of the Kosovo crisis. The
PESC also contributed strategically to the reform program because it required the drafting of sector
strategy notes in health, education, infrastructure sectors etc., which was a first step toward the adoption of
the MTEF process. Bank staff worked efficiently and flexibly during this period of crisis and maintained a
close relationship with IMF staff and other major donors. Avoiding a hiatus in the ongoing work on
Governance reform, anti-corruption efforts, financial sector reforms and public expenditure management
was important for building a solid foundation for the SAC program.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision efforts were satisfactory. The most important move by the Bank was to sustain the reform
progress by providing funds through the Public Expenditure Support Credit. These funds came at a crucial
time, during the Kosovo hostilities, when the SAC was temporarily put on hold. When the crisis subsided,
the SAC program could proceed with minimized loss in momentum. Supervision was aided by strong
support from the Country Director who ensured adequate budget and was willing to raise concerns about
implementation to the highest level. The Bank also maintained continuity of staff from the preparation
stage of the SAC until second tranche release. The Bank also worked well with other donors. For
example, the Bank relied on OSCE-financed lawyers to flag a key change in the Law on Civil Servants
which was unacceptable to the Bank and to open the process again to additional stakeholder input. The end
result was an improved Law on Civil Servants.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In view of the appropriateness of the reform program and the satisfactory supervision rating, overall IDA
performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Performance of the borrower during the preparation phase was highly satisfactory. While making good
progress in the implementation of the reform agenda during late 1998 and early 1999, the reform
momentum was threatened by the outbreak of the Kosovo Crisis and the large inflow of refugees and the
stresses this crisis placed on Government institutions and public expenditures. Govermuent efforts to
manage these challenges and maintain fiscal and monetary discipline were extraordinary. Special efforts
were made to continue with financial sector privatization even during the uncertainties of the Kosovo
Crisis.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite strong challenges from the external environment, the Government maintained the course of reform.
All conditions of the SAC were met without waiver and both tranches were disbursed within the expected
timeframe. As part of the Public Administration Reforrm Technical Assistance Credit, the Government has
also agreed to a broad range of monitorable indicators to measure progress. These indicators will be
particularly useful because of the long-term nature of institutional reform.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MOF was very effective in maintaining prudent fiscal management, privatizing NCB and supporting
transparency measures in public expenditure management as defined under the Anti-Corruption program.
The MOF proved a competent counterpart to IDA throughout the operation. Enterprise privatization was
- 10-



conducted through the Ministry of Privatization with the privatization of AMC. Reform efforts were more
cumbersome in public administration reform where recruitment of 50 civil servants under adjusted
recruitment procedures proved the major challenge under the SAC program. In this instance, line ministries
were slow in the recruitment of the secretary generals, and intervention by the prime minister was required.
There was also a case where an important provision in the Civil Service Law that would de-politicize this
Law was altered. The lawyers hired by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE),
who was assisting the authorities in preparing this law noticed the change. The Government, with the Bank
then used the opportunity to review the law extensively and to introduce more progressive measures. At the
end, the approved final Law on Civil Servants became much stronger than originally had been drafted.
7.7 OverallBorrowverperformance:
Borrower performance during the Kosovo crisis was impressive. The borrower maintained reform
commitment throughout the SAC period, although there were some delays regarding civil service reform.
This condition was caused largely by factors beyond the control of the Government. Passage of the new
Law on Civil Servants (and as a result its implementation), was delayed for several months by the
resistance from the major opposition party in Parliament. The opposition, which at the time represented in
the majority of the local governments, had ordered all local elected officials from his party to boycott the
process of nominating candidates for the Civil Service Commission. The local elected officials were
supposed to nominate 2 of the five candidates of the Commission who would then be sent for approval to
the Parliament. Nevertheless, the Government took steps to elicit cooperation from local elected officials by
direct contacts including orientation meetings on the Civil Service Law. It also proceeded with parallel
preparation of the necessary guidelines and procedures of the law. Overall borrower performance was
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are the major lessons learned from the SAC:
A reform program can be greatly enhanced when the strategy is to combine SAC with follow-up
investment projects. In Albania, the SAC was part of a package which included follow-up a Public
Administration Reform Credit and a Legal and Judicial Reform Credit. Both were technical assistance
credits and were very important in continuing the reforms. They also reduced sustainability risk.
An interministerial committee with support of the Prime Minister can be a good vehicle to encounter
those who resist to reform. In the case of civil service reform and the recruitment of the 50 civil servants
including secretary generals for ten different ministries, the Interministerial Committee with intervention
from the Prime Minister carried through these key recruitments which demonstrated that the Government
was willing to actually enforce the new merit-based civil service law.
Adjustment operations do not need to be all encompassing, free-standing operations. The SAC was
deliberately selective focusing only on achievable reforms. By itself, the SAC program might resemble a
disjointed set of reforms. Rather, the SAC should be seen as an integral element of a broader reform
agenda, which IDA, in close collaboration with the IMF, continues to support Albania's reforrn process
through a number of assistance programs.
Setting realistic objectives and working out their major elements can motivate the professionals in the
Government. A major thrust of the SAC was strengthening institutional capacity and management of
public resources. Working on the details of these programs with the officials can stimulate changes in the
way the officials think about economic policy and public sector reform.
- 11 -



Launching an adjustment operation despite crisis conditions can help preserve a reform agenda. The
SAC provided timely support, which strengthened the momentum of reformers within Government and
allowed the reform agenda to proceed in spite of numerous adverse circumstances resulting from the
Kosovo Crisis. Both the Public Expenditure Support Credit and the SAC provided highly visible support
during a time of crisis, which increased the credibility of IDA and benefited SAC implementation.
Coordination among key donors to speak with one voice at the time of crisis is critical to the success
of an adjustment operation. SAC design and implementation benefited from close and effective
collaboration with IMF, other major donors and IDA during the Kosovo crisis as well as with IFCIEBRD
in the case of financial sector privatization. The practically seamless interaction among donors assured
that systematic support was provided to the Governnent and that consistent messages were conveyed to the
Albanian authorities and increased the credibility of Bretton Woods institutions as reliable and competent
partners to Albanian reformers.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was launched in Kosovo crisis period.
The objective of the SAC was to support the Government's effort to ward the restoration of sustained
growth and improved living standards through reforms that enhance Government functioning and
strengthen the environment for more efficient private sector development.
The SAC objectives were consistent with the priorities laid out in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for fiscal year 1999-2001.
The CAS priorities included emphases on govemance and institution building, sustainable private sector
growth and human development and poverty alleviation.
The SAC and IMF's program ESAF, included improved fiscal revenue collection to ensure that public
resources would be able to provide essential social services, prudent fiscal management with expenditures
allocated to priority activities such as basic social services and maintenance of public infrastructure,
improved public expenditures management, adequate monetary policies and structural measures considered
essential for sustainability.
A key reform element of the SAC was to complete privatization of small and medium scale enterprise
(SME) sector and to begin privatization of the financial sector.
The SAC adapted major policy measures particularly in the civil service and in legal / judicial framework
and capacity. These measures were part of broader reform efforts supported through additional IDA and
technical assistance credits, the IMF ESAF and numerous bilateral programs, such as the EU, the Council
of Europe, and the governments of different countries.
Another component of the strengthen state institutional capacities was sustainability of the Public Pensions
which were the core social protection program. The preparation work for a reform, strategy and actuarial
evaluation, was initiated under the SAC.
Under the SAC the government agreed to complete and completed registration for more than 1000 cadastre
units.
- 12 -



The Government with the help of SAC, has mode substantial progress in moving from an environment
where major institutions were not functioning properly to institutions that are an track in the financial,
legal, judicial and civil service areas and are gaining public trust.
Important progress has been made in the strengthening of public sector institutions. Reform measures
agreed under the SAC have been fully implemented both for civil and for legal/judicial reform program.
The public institution building measures supported under the SAC ate part of a broader long-term agent
coordinated with the multinational and bilateral donor community.
The structural reforms issues ad dressed under the SAC are essential to assure sustainable growth and
poverty alleviation. The SAC complemented the ESAF Program and PRGF programs to support
macroeconomic stability and growth in Albania.
The appraisal of the SAC was completes shortly before the outbreak of the Kosovo Crisis in March 1999.
Bank staff worked efficiently and flexibly during this period of crisis and maintained a close relation slips
with the Albanian authorities.
Anticorruption efforts, financial sector reforms and public expenditure management were important
building a solid foundation of the SAC program.
The most important move by the World Bank was to sustain the reform progress by
providing founds through the Public Expenditures Support Credit.
Supervision has been strong and efforts in this direction we con evaluated as very
Satisfactory. During lifetime of the SAC the World Bank maintained the same staff
from the beginning up to the end, second tranche release.
Preparation of the lending operation by the World Bank was high satisfactory. The
SAC was an integral part of a broad based lending program as defined in the
CAS 1999-2001 and was closely coordinated with other donors.
The World Bank and IMF assistance program, in close collaboration with others major donors have aligned
their assistance programs according to priorities that were the objectives and components of the SAC.
IDA's assistance efforts in this direction has been important. Albania's long term goal of join the European
Union required first of all that the Albanian Government to continue its measures a functioning judiciary
and sound public administration, as well as a support of the Bank and IMF to the structural adjustment
measures in future.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Other donors did not provide comments
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indlcatorlmatrix                  Projeted In last PSR                  ActaU/Latest Estimate
I. Ensure Prudent Macroeconomic       Achieved. Albania is in full compliance with  Same
Management: Pursue tight fiscal and   performance fiscal and monetary
monetary policy, substantially improve  performance targets defined under the
revenue collection and meet priority  IMFProgram.
expenditure targets, strengthen budgetary
management
II. Complete Privatization of Enterprises and  (i) Achieved - Revenue from privatization    Same
Banks                                 reached the range of 1-2 percent of GDP.
(i) Complete privatzation of all remaining
Small and Medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) (ii) Achieved - Through privatization the
with exception in the defense and cultural   waste of resources has been reduced and
sectors.                              liquidated assets have been put into
(ii) Complete privatization of 15 small copper productive use.
and 66 small chrome mines.
(iii) Finalize the sale of the govemments    (iii) Achieved - The expected impact is the
shares in the NCB to new owners, receive   increase in credit extended to the private
payment from the sale and ensure that a new sector.
license from the Bank of Albania is issued to
NCB.                                  (iv) Achieved -. Sale of the two AMC licenses
(iv) Commence due diligence of AMC    has brought in substantial foreign resources
(cellular telecom company).           ($80 million from one license alone).
Ill. Strengthen Core Institutional Functions                                 Same
(i) Establish Inter-Ministerial Committee for  (i) Achieved- Inter-Ministerial Committee for
Insttutional and Govemance Reform.    Institutonal and Govemance Reform
facilitated the approval of the civil service law
which will rationalize the civil service system.
(ii) Achieved - Led to a revised salary
(ii) Revise Civil Service Law and prepare    structure and progress in integrabing the
application norms and procedures.     investment and recurrent budget processes.
Another expected impact is a more
professional, depoliticized, merit-based civil
service.
(iii) Achieved - The recruitment was difficult
(iii) Complete the recruitment of 50 civil    to achieve which demonstrated the important
servants under transparent, competitive,    difference between establishing new
merit-based procedures as established  procedures and actual enforcement.
under the human resources management   Recruiting the 50 positions was key in
legislation.                          proving the willingness to enforce the new
civil service procedures.
(iv) The revision of the Anti-Corrupbon Action
(iv) Continue monitoring and publicizing  Plan expected to lead to improved
progress on implementation of institutional   governance.
and govemance reform program and make
substantial progress on implementation of
the Anticorruption Action Plan.
- 14 -



IV. Strengthen Legal and Judicial Capacties                                 Same
(i) Require all judges with less than ten years
of experience to take a re-accreditation test.  (i) Achieved - Judges' performance will
(ii) Establish State Publication Office and    improve and adhere more closely to the rule
appoint qualified Director;           of law.
(ii) Achieved - There is wider access in the
legal community to the body of current laws
(iii) Implement the Govemment Reform  and judicial decisions, including key officials
Program of the Faculty of Law of the  and the public at large.
University of Tirana.                 (iii) Achieved - Better lawyers will graduate
and, therefore, partes will benefit from
improved legal services.
V. Ensure Sustainability of Public Pensions  Achieved - The Secured Transactions Law   Same
Initiate preparation of a pension reform  will improve documentation for providing
framework papers, which shall include full  loans and give recourse to banks in court in
actuarial evaluation of the current public    the case of default. Supervision capacity has
pension system and explore options for its  also been improved and the strengthened
reform.                               banks will be able to provide a larger volume
of credit to the private sector.
VIl. Develop a Land Market            Achieved - The land market action Program  Same
Complete first-time registration in 1,000  (1999-2001) improved land distribution
cadastral units.                      documents and inventoried claims of former
owners of various land categories. There is
progress in resolving pending compensation
claims and the land market is strengthened
because deeds are created and transactions
are therefore more reliable.
The date of the last PSR is December 26, 2000, which is the end of project
Output Indicators:
|________ndicato_Mat_lx                        Projected In last PSR                 ActainlLtest Estimat
i. Ensure Prudent Macroeconomic       Achieved. Inflation fell to about zero percent  Inflation is expected to be about 4 percent in
Management Pursue tight fiscal and    in 1999 and was 4 percent in 2000 from a    2000 and 3 percent in 2001 and the fiscal
monetary policy, substantially improve  high of 42 percent in 1997. The fiscal deficit deficit about 3 percent in 2000 and 2.5
revenue collection and meet priority  dropped continuously from 11 percent of    percent of GDP in 2001.
expendRture targets, strengthen budgetary    GDP in 1997 to 5.5 percent in 1999.
management
- 15 -



II. Complete Privatization of Enterprises and  (i) Achieved - enterprises were privatized,   (i) Same
Banks                                 liquidated, or leased, except for 50
(i) Complete privatization of al remaining    companies in the defense and cultural
Small and Medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) sectors. Privatization of four companies
with exception in the defense and cultural   (dairy, brewery, wine, cement,
sectors.                              pharmaceutical) was carried out through
international competitive bidding.
(ii) Complete privatization of 15 small copper (ii) Achieved - all 15 small copper mines    (ii)The remainder was transferred to the
and 66 small chrome mines,            have been privatized. 34 of the 66 chrome   National Agency for Privatization (NAP). As
mines have been privatized. The remainder  there were no interested buyers, these mines
are in the process of liquidation.    were closed and assets liquidated by NAP.
(iii) Same
(iii) Finalize the sale of the govemment's    (iii) Achieved - NCB shares have been
shares in the NCB to new owners, receive   purchased by a consortium of the IFC, the
payment from the sale and ensure that a new EBRD, and Kentbank. The shares have been
license from the Bank of Albania is issued to transferred and a new license has been
NCB.                                  issued to NCB to operate under new
ownership.
(iv) Same
(iv) Commence due diligence of AMC    (iv) Achieved - due diligence of AMC was
(cellular telecom company).           completed and two AMC licenses have been
issued through international competitive
bidding to foreign investors.
Ill. Strengthen Core Institutional Functions  (i) Achieved- Inter-Ministerial Committee for  Same
(i) Establish Inter-Ministerial Committee for  Institutional and Governance Reform has
Institutional and Governance Reform.  been established.
(ii) Revise Civil Service Law and prepare    (ii) Achieved - Parliament approved a much
application norms and procedures.     improved Law on Civil Servants (November
11, 1999) and the law has become effective
in January 2000. Subsidiary legal
instruments have since been prepared and
continue to be under preparation.
(iii) Complete the recruitment of 50 civil    (iii) Achieved - the Government launched
servants under transparent, competitive,    recruitment and selection efforts to fill 124
merit-based procedures as established  vacancies within the civil service. As of
under the human resources management   December 1, 2000, 50 of those positions had
legislation.                          been filled. Procedures established by the
Law on Civil Servants and the Decree on
recruitment and selection were strictly
followed.
(iv) Continue monitoring and publicizing  (iv) Govemment held a major conference
progress on implementation of institutional  (January 2000) and held roundtables with
and govemance reform program and make  local governments (Feb-April, 2000) on
substantial progress on implementation of  implementation of the Law on Civil Servants,
the Anticorruption Action Plan.       and has produced a newsletter on the public
administration reform program (September
2000).
- 16 -



IV. Strengthen Legal and Judicial Capacities                               Same
(i) Require all judges with less than ten years
of experience to take a re-accreditation test.  (i) Achieved - The High Council of Justice
set a re-accreditaton test in May 1999. A
system of periodic performance evaluation is
now being developed. Five judges failed and
25 refused to take the test. These judges
(ii) Establish State Publication Office and    were removed pending passing of the test.
appoint qualified Director;          (ii) Achieved - the office was established by
June 1999.
(iii) Implement the Govemment Reform
Program of the Faculty of Law of the  (iii) Under continuous implementation - In
University of Tirana.                 March 2000, the Tirana Law Faculty formally
adopted the Action Plan which outlines
reforms and improvements to be
implemented over a two year period.
Implementation of the Plan has began and is
supported by an IDA financed Technical
Assistance Credit for Legal and Judicial
Reform.
V. Ensure Sustainability of Public Pensions
Initiate preparation of a pension reform  Achieved - the pension reform paper is under Same
framework papers, which shall include full  preparation.
actuarial evaluation of the current public
pension system and explore options for its
reform.
VI. Strengthen Financial Sector Regulatory   Achieved - The Secured Transactions Law
Framework                            was approved by Pariament in October  Same
Enact into law the draft legislation on  1999. The Govemment also began to
secured transactions.                establish a Real Time Gross Settlement
System and build capacity in on- and off-site
supervision.
VII. Develop a Land Market           Achieved - by end September 2000, 1640
Complete first-time registration in 1,000  cadastral units had been registered.  Same
cadastral units.
End of project
The date of the last PSR is December 26, 2000, which is the end of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    USS million
Total Baseline Cost from IDA                      45.00          45.00           100
0.00
Total Baseline Cost                               45.00          45.00
Total Project Costs            45.00         45.00
Total Financing Required            45.00         45.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) _ _
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         45.00        0.00        45.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (45.00)       (0.00)     (45.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
__________ (0.00)  (0.00)  0           (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00        45.00         0.00        45.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (45.00)       (0.00)     (45.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method:
Expenditure Categoy      ICB         NCB        Mthod2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
Category            ~~~~       ~~NCB  Other    _____  ____
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        45.00        0.00        45.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (45.00)      (0.00)      (45.00)
- 18 -



5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)            0            (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)                         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00           45.00           0.00          45.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (45.00)         (0.00)        (45.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
T                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
f     Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate       r
Bank   I  Govt.        CoF.    Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Budgetary Support*        45.00                           45.00                         100.0
*See Section 5.4
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
-20-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                             ...____         ....._____._.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Sp cialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
5   Mission Leader                      S             S
Public Administration Expert,
Pension Expert
Privitization Expert
Macroecnomist
Appraisal/Negotiation
FY 1999                      8   Mission Leader                      S             S
Public Administration
Expert
Public Expenditure Expert
Legal and Judicial Expert
Agricultural Economist
Financial Sector Expert
Privatization Expert
Pension Expert
March 1999                                                           S              S
Supervision
FY 2000                                                              S              S
November 1999                8   Mission Leader                      S             S
Public Administration Specialist
June 2000                        Public Expenditure Expert
Legal and Judicial Expert
Agricultural Specialist
Financial Sector Expert
Privitization Expert
Pension Expert
ICR
FY 2001                      2    Project Team Leader and            S             S
(ICR) Project Reviser
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
____________ ____________No. Staff  weeks               usS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 54                        183.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     16.1                        77.0
Supervision                               50*                         172*
ICR
Total                                    120.1                       435.0
- 21 -



*SPN and ICR cannot be separated in SAP.
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FII Macro policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
D Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OI Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
OI Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
OI Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public.sector management                O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=HIighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS Os OU OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   O U  O HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
a Preparation                                        OHS OS   Ou  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  O U O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ALBANIA - Structural Adjustment Credit, Report and Recommendation of the President, Report No.
P-7303-ALB
ALBANIA-Public Expenditure Support Credit. Report and Recommendation of the President Report No.
P-7302-ALB
ALBANIA - Implementation Completion Report, Structural Adjustment Credit, Draft April 16, 2001
ALBANIA - Country Assistance Strategy (FY 99-01).
ALBANIA - Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, February 29, 2000, IDA/R2000-20
ALBANIA - Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation, Request for the Second Annual
Arrangement Under the Enhanced Structural Adjustmnent Facility, and Request for Augmentation, May 28,
1999, IMF/EBS/99/84
ALBANIA - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility Policy Framework Paper (1999-2001), June 2,
1999, IMF/SecM99-381
ALBANIA - Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint World Bank IMF Staff Assessment of
the Interim PRSP, May 16, 2000, IDA/SecM2000-263
ALBANIA - Staff Report for the 2000 Article IV Consultation and Second Review under the Second
Annual Arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, May 25, 2000, IMF/EBS/00/92
ALBANIA-First Review Under the Third Annual Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and Request for Waiver of Performance Criteria, January 12,20001, IMF/EBS/01/4
QAG, Quality at Entry Assessment, Albania, SAC, Project ID 55160. Memorandum dated 4/3/2000
- 25 -



