Page  1
TF023339
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3231 ALB
 Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the 
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway
Dated March 29, 2001
TF023339
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 2001 between ALBANIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant 
funds provided by the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the 
Kingdom of Norway (Norway).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement 
(Structural Adjustment Credit), dated June 24, 1999, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the IDA Credit Agreement), the 
Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a credit in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,200,000) to 
support the Recipient in the execution of the Program, as defined 
in the IDA Credit Agreement; and
(B)
pursuant to an arrangement dated December 6, 1999, as 
amended, between Norway and International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Association, Norway has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the 
Page  2
Association have agreed, to administer grant funds (the Grant) to 
be made available by Norway for the support of the Recipient in 
the execution of the Program, in accordance with the provisions 
of such arrangement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General 
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 
2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), 
(8), (9), (12) and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(iv)
Article V;
(v)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), 
(g), (h), and (l) 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
 (vi)
Section 8.01 (b);
(vii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08;
(viii)
Article X; and
(ix)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, other than in Section 6.02 
(e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator 
of the Grant pursuant to the arrangement 
between Norway and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
Page  3
this Agreement except that in Section 6.02 (a), 
the term "Development Credit Agreement" means 
the IDA Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means the Grant Account, an 
account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the Grant is credited; and
 (vi)
the term "Deposit Account", wherever used in 
the IDA Credit Agreement, means the Grant 
Deposit Account, an account that the Borrower 
shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal 
from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain 
in its central bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, into which all 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be 
deposited by the Association; provided, 
however, that if the first request for 
withdrawal is in Dollars, the Grant Deposit 
Account may be the same as the Deposit Account 
under the IDA Credit Agreement; and 
(vii) Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be 
made in the currency of the Grant, i.e. 
Norwegian Kroner (NOK)."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the 
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement and in the 
IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth; and the terms "Norwegian Kroner" and "NOK" mean the 
currency of Norway.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to 
the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, a Grant in an amount of thirty million 
Norwegian Kroner (NOK 30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may not be withdrawn 
from the Grant Account before the release of the first tranche 
pursuant to the IDA Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or 
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The 
Page  4
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Section 2.02 (c) and Article III of the IDA 
Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, 
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force 
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being 
understood that all references in said Articles to the 
"Association" shall be deemed to be references to the Association 
as Administrator of the Grant under this Agreement, all 
references to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Recipient, and all references to the "Credit" and the "Credit 
Amount" and "Deposit Account" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Grant, the Grant Account and the Grant Deposit Account, 
respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its 
execution by the parties.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Facsimile:
355 42 28494
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  5
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first 
above written.
ALBANIA 
By  /s/ Anastas Angjeli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Grant
By  /s/ Andras Horvai
Authorized Representative
