                                     Document of

                             THEWORLD BANK



                                                      ReportNo. 29638




              PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     ALBANIA


                          REHABILITATION CREDIT
                                 (CreditNo. 3015)


       RECOVERYPROGRAMTECHNICAL ASSISSTANCEPROJECT
                                 (CreditNo. 3016)


                  PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
                                 (CreditNo. 3197)


                    STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                 (Credit No. 3231)


                                   July 8,2004




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department

                                       CurrencyEquivalent
                                    (ExchangeRate EffectiveJune 10,2003)

                                              CurrencyUnit= Lek
                                                Lek 1=US$.008
                                               U S S l = Lek 118.6

                                          Government's Fiscal Year
                                           January 1-December31

                                AbbreviationsAnd Acronyms

ARC              AlbaniaRehabilitationCredit
ATM              Accounting andTreasuryManagement
BART             Bank Assets ResolutionTrust
BEEPS             BusinessEnvironmentand EnterprisePerformanceSurvey
CAE              CountryAssistance Evaluation
CAS              CountryAssistance Strategy
DPA              Departmentof PublicAdministration
EBRD             EuropeanBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
ECA               EuropeandCentralAsia
ERP              Economic RecoveryProgram
EU               EuropeanUnion
FoA              Friends of Albania
FSAC             FinancialSectorAdjustmentCredit
FSIBTA           FinancialSector InstitutionBuildingTechnicalAssistance
GDP              Gross DomesticProduct
GNI              Gross NationalIncome
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC              InternationalFinanceCorporation
IMF              InternationalMonetaryFund
LJRP             Legaland JusticeReformProject
MIGA             MultilateralInvestment GuaranteeAgency
MTEF             MediumTermExpenditureFramework
NCB              NationalCommercial Bank
NE               Social AssistanceAgency
NSSED            National Strategy for Social andEconomic Development
PAW              PublicAdministration ReformProject
PESC             Public ExpenditureSupport Credit
RCB              RuralCommercial Bank
RPTA             ReformProgramTechnicalAssistance
RTGS             RealTime Gross Settlement
SAC              StructuralAdjustmentCredit
SB               SavingsBank
SEE              SouthEast Europe
SEED             SoutheastEuropeEnterpriseDevelopment
SI1              Social InsuranceInstitute
SSDP             Social ServicesDeliveryProject
UNDP             UnitedNationsDevelopment Program
USAID            UnitedStatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment



Director-General,Operations Evaluation                                 : Mr. GregoryK. Ingram
Director                                                               : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Senior Manager                                                         : Mr. R.KylePeters
Task Manager                                                           : Ms.Alice Galenson
PPARpreparedby                                                         : Mr. Ashok Khanna, Consultant

  OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceandindependence inevaluation.


Aboutthis Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
innovative, large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sosfainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfifutionalDevelopmentImpacf: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents


Preface .................................................................................................................................       i

Summary    ...........................................................................................................................         ...
                                                                                                                                               111


Ratingsand Responsiblllties        ..        ............................................................................................      v

    Introduction       ................................................................................................................         1
    Background ..................................................................................................................               1
    World Bank Group Relations with Albania and Other Donors ...................................                                                3

    IDA Assistance Strategy. LoanObjectivesandDesign                                                ..........................................  4
    IDAAssistance Strategy ..............................................................................................                       4
    LoanObjectives and Design ........................................................................................                          5

    ImplementationExperience                       ......................................................................................       7
                                                                                                                                                7
    Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project.........................................................
    Albania Recovery Credit..............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                8
   Public Expenditure Support Credit ............................................................................                              10
    Structural Adjustment Credit .....................................................................................                         10

   Outcome andAssessment                      ........................................................................................         13
   Macroeconomic Performance ....................................................................................                              13
   Structural Ref0rm.......................................................................................................                    14

     Privatization............................................................................................................
     Financial Sector ......................................................................................................                   14
                                                                                                                                               16
     Public Administration .............................................................................................                       16
     Legal and Judicial Reform......................................................................................                           16

   Ratings........................................................................................................................
     Social Safety Net.....................................................................................................                    17
                                                                                                                                               17

   Lessons   .......................................................................................................................           20


Tables inText
                                                                                                                                                2
4.1 Project Objectives/Components ................................................................................
1.1 Selected Economic Indicators...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                               13

Contents(cont.  >

Annexes
A. List ofMeetings and Discussions..............................................................................           21
B. Basic Data Sheets...................................................................................................... 23
C. Comments from the Borrower...................................................................................           33

                                              i


Preface


        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on theAlbania:
Rehabilitation Credit (ARC) for US$25 million, Recovery Program Technical Assistance
for US$5 million, Public Expenditure Support Credit for US$30 million and Structural
Adjustment Credit for US$45 million. This report i s based on the President's Reports for
the projects, summaries o fBoard discussions, legal documents, project files, related
economic and sector work, ImplementationCompletionReports (ICRs), prepared by the
Europe and CentralAsia Region, for the projects. Inaddition, discussions with Albanian
officials, other donors, other stakeholders, IMFstaff and World Bank Group staffwere
valuable inputs into the report.

        An Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) missionvisitedAlbania inJune
2003 to discuss the effectiveness o f Bank assistance with government officials, donors
and other stakeholders. Their cooperation and assistance inpreparing this report i s
gratefully acknowledged.

        The draft PPARwas sent to the Government ofAlbania for comments. The
response o fthe Ministryo f Finance is reproduced as Annex C to the report. Comments
from the Bank o f Albania have beentaken into account inthe revisedtext.

        This report was prepared by Ashok Khanna (Consultant), with Alice Galenson as
Task Manager. SilvanaValle provided administrative support.


                                                  ...
                                                  111




 Summary


 1.       Attached i s the Project Performance Assessment Report on the Albania:
 Rehabilitation Credit (ARC) for US$25 million; Recovery Program TechnicalAssistance
 (RPTA) for US$5 million; Public Expenditure Support Credit (PESC) for US$30million;
 and Structural Adjustment Credit for US$45 million. ARC became effective inMarch
 1998 and closed on schedule inDecember 1998; RPTA also became effective inMarch
 1998 and closed inOctober 2002 after three extensions, about 22 months behind
 schedule; PESC became effective inMay 1999 and closed on schedule in September
 2000; and SAC became effective inAugust 1999 and closed on schedule inDecember
 2000.

 2.       ARC and RPTA were processed quickly to helpAlbania resolve the financial
pyramid scheme crisis, stabilize the financial sector, restore the social safety net, and
 initiate reforms inpublic administrationand the legal andjudicial system. PESC and
 SAC assistedAlbania duringthe Kosovo refugee crises: PESC provided funds to
maintainpublic services, and SAC furtheredreforms inthe financial sector, privatization,
public administration, the legal andjudicial system, and social services.

3.       Despite two major crises and domestic political instability, Albania's
macroeconomic and growth performance has been satisfactory. Economic growth has
averaged almost 8 percent per annum during 1998-2002, with total investmentincreasing
steadily. Budgetdeficits have declined and inflationhas been contained to low single
digit levels. Foreignexchange reserves are at a comfortable coverage (five months) of
imports and the Lek has appreciated steadily. Privatizationo f small andmedium
enterprises i s complete and that o f larger, strategic enterprises almost complete.
Structural reforms have progressed inall areas mentioned above, assistedby several IDA
follow-on projects. Some shortcomings do exist, however. The financial sector has
stabilized, but intermediation to the private sector remains small, though rising.
Moreover, aid coordination remains weak, eventhough it i s critical ina country where
many donors are involved.

4.       The outcomes o fARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC are ratedsatisfactory. The
sustainability o f all credits i s ratedas likely becausethe government has continuedwith
reform implementation through periods o fcrisis and domestic political instability. The
institutionaldevelopment impact for all four credits i s rated as substantial. Some new
institutions were established, and capacity was built inexisting institutions through
reforms and technical advice. IDA'Sperformance for PESC i s ratedhighly satisfactory
because o f its timely, appropriate and effective response to the Kosovo crisis. IDA'S
performance for ARC, RPTA and SAC i s rated satisfactory becausethese projects were
relatively consistent with its strategy, quality at entry was satisfactory, and supervision
was also satisfactory. The government collaborated fully inpreparing ARC, RPTA,
PESC, and SAC and implementedthem fully without any waivers and despite substantial
instability. The borrower's performance for PESC i s rated as highly satisfactory because

                                             iv


o fthe government's strong commitment and prompt, transparent implementation. The
borrower's performance for ARC, RPTA, and SAC i s ratedsatisfactory.

5.     The main lessons from these credits are:


       0   Small, focused, one-tranche policy projects with realistic objectives,
           supported by technical assistance, may work well intransition countries that
           are politically unstable and have low market economy skills. A limited
          reform agenda i s easier to implement, especially ifparliamentary approval i s
          needed for new laws whenthe political landscape i s not stable. Reform
          continuity can be maintainedby similar policy or investment follow-on
          projects.

          Incrisis situations, animmediateresponsecanbevaluable beyondits direct
          purpose. The very quick preparation and disbursement o fPESC was effective
          inprovidingdevelopment assistanceandcoordinatingsubstantial
          humanitarianassistance.


       0  PESC was disbursedagainst a negative list of imports instead o f the positive
          list that i s usual for an emergency import credit. Disbursement against a
          negative list expedited resource transfer, which was appropriate inAlbania's
          circumstances.


       0  As is already well known, aid coordination-including      the appropriate
          alignment o f government agencies-is     critical to ensure appropriate,
          harmonized and effective assistance where many donors are involved.


       0  Some organizations established for special purposes under IDAprojects could
          betransformed into private sector commercial entities when their mandate is
          complete. This transition could be an integralpart o f that organization's
          strategy.




                                                Gregory K.Ingram
                                                Director-General
                                              Operations Evaluation

                                                 V



Ratings and Responsibilities

  PerformanceRatings
                         Albania: Rehabilitation Credit (ARC, Credit 3015)
                                    ECA ICR               OEDICR review          OED PPAR
 Outcome                          Satisfactory              Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Sustainability                      Likely                  Uncertain             Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment            Partial                  Modest             Substantial
 Bank Performance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance             Satisfactory              Satisfactory         Satisfactory




 Outcome                          Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
 Sustainability                     Likely                    Likely               Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment         Substantial               Substantial          Substantial
 Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance             Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory


                        PublicExpenditureSupport Credit (PESC, Credit3197)
                                   ECA ICR                OEDICR review          OED PPAR
 Outcome                          Satisfactory              Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Sustainability                     Likely                    Likely               Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment         Substantial               Substantial          Substantial
Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory  Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance           Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory  Highly Satisfactory


                          StructuralAdjustment Credit (SAC, Credit 3231)
                                  ECA ICR                 OEDICR review          OED PPAR
Outcome                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Sustainability                      Likely                    Likely               Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment          Substantial              Substantial           Substantial
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory

                                          vi



Key Project Responsibilities
Project                 Staff                    Appraisal                  Completion
ARC           Task Manager             Helena Tang/John Innes         Helena Tang
              Sector ManagedDirector   C. Lovelace/L. Bokros/P. Mitra Michal Rutkowski
                         I
              County Director          Arntraud Hartmann              Arntraud Hartmann

RPTA          Task Manager             Tunc Uyanik                    Greta Minxhozi
              Sector Manager/Director  Lajos Bokros                   Kaled Sherif/Paul J.
                                                                      Siegelbaum
              County Director          Arntraud Hartmann              Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

PESC          Task Manager             Onno Ruhl                      Hormoz Aghdaey
              Sector ManagedDirector   Pradeep Mitra/Lajos Bokros     Khaled Sherif/Paul
                                                                      Siegelbaum
              County Director          Arntraud Hartman               Christiaan J. Poortman

SAC           Task Manager             Mansour Farsad                 Mansour Farsad
              Sector ManagedDirector   Pradeep Mitra                  Pradeep Mitra
              County Director          Arntraud Hartmann              Arntraud Hartmann

 1.      Introduction

Background

 1.1     Social and Political. Albania had apopulation o f 3.4 million and a GNIper capita
(Atlas Method) o fUS$1,230 in2001. It i s the poorest country inEurope, but its social
indicators are at about the same level as Eastern European and CentralAsian countries
and lower-middle income countries. Albania has a turbulent history, with intermittent
wars and occupations since Romanconquest in 168 BC. An internationalcommission in
 1913 demarcated its current borders. After World War 11, it came under communist
dictatorship untilthat regimefell in 1990. Untilthat year, Albania hadno experience in
democratic government, but relied on a strong tradition o f social, clan and family ties.

 1.2     Elections were heldin 1991, contested by several parties. The Socialist Party (ex-
communist party) won, but within a year a general strike and demonstrations forced them
to form a coalition with the opposition Democratic Party. Another electionwas heldin
 1992, which the Democratic Party won, making it the first non-Communist government in
47 years. A period o f relative political stability was disruptedtowards the end o f 1996by
the collapse o f several financial pyramid schemes, with liabilities amountingto 50
percent o f GDP. The collapse ledto widespread rioting and civil unrest. Over 1500
people diedandbuildingsand infrastructure were damaged. The government no longer
controlled large parts o f the country. This insecurity disruptedeconomic and social
activities, untila multinationalprotectionforce restored order by mid-1997.

1.3     The Socialist Partywon the elections heldin 1997. Bitter feudingbetweenthe
Socialist and Democratic Parties and divisions within the Socialist Partyhave led to
several changes ingovernment and cabinet. The Kosovo crisis o f 1999, when about
450,000 refugees came into Albania, temporarily restorednational and political unity.
The Socialist Party againwon the elections in2001, butthe infighting continued,
resultinginchanges ingovernment and cabinet and a boycott ofParliament bythe
Democratic Party. In2002, political disputes were temporarily resolved-the
Democratic Party endedits boycott o f Parliament andthe Socialist Party factions agreed
to suspend feuding-and      the parties agreed on a consensual President. Unfortunately, the
wave o f optimism subsidedand confrontational politics have revived.

1.4     Economic. Duringthe periodo f communist rule, Albania had a centrally planned
economy, with all productive assets (including agriculture, land, industry, commerce and
infrastructure) owned collectively or by the state. Market mechanisms disappeared or
went undergroundand economic decisions were madethrough five-year plans.
Agriculture was the predominant sector for employment and also contributed about 35
percent to GDP. The broad-based industrial sector contributed45 percent to GDP from
about 400 state-owned enterprises that had obsolete technology and low productivity.

1.5     By 1992, Albania couldbe described as a "failed state." The economy was in
disarray, with a 40 percent drop inoutput, a rise ininflation to 240 percent and over 27

                                                         2


percent unemployment. Externalmigrationexploded from almost zero in 1990 to
100,000 in 1991. Current estimates o f migrant workers range from 700,000 to 1,000,000.

1.6       Facedwith this economic situation, Albania launched a vigorous stabilization and
structural reform program over the 1992-1 995 period. The measures implemented
included privatizationo f virtually all agricultural land, small enterprises and shops; and
abolition o f almost all price controls, exchange rate unification and floating and
liberalization o f trade and payments. These policies spurredGDP growth to over 9
percent per annum during 1993-1995, enabling unemployment to decrease to 12percent
and inflation to decline to 5 percent by 1995. Simultaneously, large inflows o f external
concessional aid and grants (US$1.5 billionduring 1992-1996) and worker's remittances
(US$300 millionper annum by 1996) helpedcontain the current account deficit and
rebuildforeign reserves.

1.7       This progress began to unravel from mid-1996 inthe runup to elections. Tax
collection efforts weakened and foreign assistance declined becausethe IMFprogram
was halted, resultingina high fiscal deficit o f about 11percent o f GDP. Inflation
accelerated to 17 percent, and the current account deficit increased to over 9 percent.
Fueledby the surgeinremittances, the financial pyramid schemeshadexpanded rapidly.
Their collapse ledto widespread civil disturbance by early 1997 andloss o f confidence in
the currency. The Lek depreciated by over 40 percent and inflationrose to 28 percent in
the first halfo f 1997. The government elected inJuly 1997 adopted a post-crisis
economic recovery programthat helped limit the budget deficit andbrought down
inflation. Despite domestic political strife, macroeconomic targets agreed with the IMF
were broadly met in 1998. GDP grew at 12percent while the budget deficit was 7
percent o f GDP, keepinginflation under 9 percent; the current account deficit dropped to
about 7 percent o f GDP.

Table 1.1: Selected Economic Indicators
                             1993       1994    1995    1996        1997   1998   1999    2000 2001 2002'
 Real GDP Growth (%)           9.7       9.6     9.1     9.3       -10.5    12.1   8.3    7.7   6.8  4.7
 Inflation ("?)               31.0       15.0    5.0     17.0       42.0    8.7    -1.0   4.2   3.5  2.1
 BudgetDeficit a'              9.1       6.9     6.8     10.7       10.7    6.9    5.4    3.1   3.0  3.2
 Currenta/c Deficit a         29.5       14.0    7.0     8.5        12.5    6.9    7.7    7.1   6.2  9.1
 Gross Reservesb               140       200     230     260        290     384    481    608  754   860
Source: World Bank data.
a. Percent o f GDP; b. US$ Millions; c. IMF data; d. Domestically financed budgetdeficits

1.8      The conflict inKosovo ledto an influx of about 450,000 refugees into Albania by
early 1999, posing a new crisis. The government remained committed to the economic
reform program, however. Thus, GDP growth averaged over 8 percent per annum from
1998-2001, inflationhas been kept at low levels o f 2 to 4 percent and external reserves
have been comfortable at about five months o f imports. External assistance and
remittances have providedneeded financing. A strong private sector response to
structural reforms has spurredeconomic growth. Inparticular, agriculture, construction,
and services have grown rapidly. GDP growth slowed in2002, partly because o f an
energy shortage, budget pressures that loweredpublic investment,andpolitical

                                                    3


uncertainty that loweredprivate investment. The growth rate was expected to pick up in
2003, as some o f these inhibiting factors were resolved.


World Bank Group Relationswith Albania and Other Donors

 1.9      Albaniajoined the World Bank Group inOctober 1991. Through January 2003,
the Bank had lent US$673 millionto Albania, o fwhich US$470million or 70 percent has
been disbursed. The Board had approved a total o f 49 IDA credits, o f which 26 are being
implemented. Fast disbursingadjustment or emergency operations have amounted to
about a quarter o f total lending. IDAprojects have performed well becauseo f
community-based approachesthat foster ownership and accountability as well as careful
IDA supervision. Portfolio quality continues to improve. Annual countryperformance
portfolio reviews have reduced implementationbottlenecks, resultinginhigher
disbursements. OED data also show a steady improvement inproject outcomes and
sustainability.

 1.10     Albania also became a member o f IFC in 1991and IFC opened an office in
Tirana in 1997. By January 2003, IFC had six investmentsinAlbania with a total
investment approvalo f US$121million, mostly loans and some equity. Notably, IFC
(with EBRD) i s an investor inone privatized state bank and a private bank.
Collaboration with IDA, IMF, and EBRDwas particularly good duringthe bank
privatizationtransaction. IFC i s currently considering investinginanother state-owned
bank and insurance company. Its other investments are inoil and gas,
telecommunications and cement. IFC i s a contributor to Southeast Europe Enterprise
Development (SEED), which was launched inSeptember 2000 with about US$20 million
infinancing. SEED focuses on enterprise levelinvestment services, buildingcapacity of
enterprises and institutions serving small- and medium-sized enterprises and improving
the enabling environment for business. MIGA is active inAlbania andhad guarantees
outstanding o fUS$18.5 million.'

1.11 Collaboration with the IMFhasbeenclose throughout, with programs coordinated
at headquarters and inthe field to ensure consistency. This close collaboration continued
whenthe Bank and IMFprepared the PovertyReductionSupport Credit and Poverty
Reduction Growth Facility inparallel during2002.

1.12     Many multilateral and bilateraldonors are involved inAlbania. Donors
coordinate at several levels. At the political level, coordination i s done under the
framework o f the Friendso fAlbania (FoA), an informal group o f multilateral
organizations and bilateral donors. FoA meets on an ad hoc basis about once a year in
Western Europe to evaluate Albania's progress inreforms, under the chairmanship o f the
European Union (EU) and Organizationfor Security and CooperationinEurope. FoA
also meets inTirana to discuss political developments and coordinate reforms.


'Information  o n IFC investments was obtained from World Bank documents and an interview with IFC's
representative inTirana. Information on MIGA guarantees comes from "Albania: Country Assistance
Strategy," World Bank Report No. 24189-ALB, 2002.

                                             4


 1.13   Sector focused donor meetings inTirana are the main vehicle for technical
cooperation. These meetings functionedwell in 1997-1998, but were interruptedby the
Kosovo crisis. Subsequently, the meetingsbecame sporadic, but the Bank and EU
resolved in2002 to improve coordination at this level. Future Consultative Group
meetings may help to better align donor support for the government's Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy. Additional donor coordinationinitiatives are taken on issues
 arisinginspecific lendingand non-lending activities. These initiatives often result in
cofinancing arrangements. The Bank has worked with 14 different cofinanciers.

 1.14   Despite these efforts, government officials perceive donor coordination as
ineffective. For example, the lack o f coordination results inlaws and regulations favored
by different donor country consultants that may not harmonize with eachother or be
appropriate for Albania's culture. Also, some laws, such as for money laundering funded
byUSAID, arewell inadvance o f legislationinthe EU,which Albania aspires tojoin.
As donors fund a substantial proportion o fAlbania's budget, coordinationis crucial for
 successful implementation o fprojects inmany sectors. Government officials also
perceived IDA as the most responsive to Albania's needs and suggestedthat it should
take leadership incoordinatingdonor activity inmost sectors. Finally, the government's
own institutional arrangements for dealing with donors, spreadover three agencies, has
impededcoordinationefforts.


2.      IDAAssistance Strategy, Loan Objectives, and Design

IDA AssistanceStrategy

2.1     Ofthe four loans reviewedinthis report, two were approved inlate 1997 and two
inmid-1999. Thus, these loans came underthe framework ofcountry assistance
strategies presented to the Board in 1993 and 1998. Whenthe 1993 country strategy was
presentedto the Board, Albania hadjust emergedfrom a communist regime indeep
poverty and isolation. Itpursueda "big bang" transition strategy, which initially ledto
severe economic recession. The1993 country strategy responded to this emergency by
proposing assistance inmacroeconomic stabilization, followed by extensive and flexible
support for sectors inneed o frehabilitationand/or undergoingstructural transformation.
Projects were designedto be small to gauge implementation capacity. As much as
possible, the projects were cofinanced, with IDA taking the leadrole, to leverage IDA
resources.

2.2     The 1993 country strategy, complemented by IMFprograms, focused on
emergency rehabilitation o f dilapidatedinfrastructure(roads, school, health facilities);
key structural reforms, includingprice and trade liberalizationandprivatization of farm
land and small enterprises; modernizingtax administrationand introducing a Value
Added Tax; establishing anew social safety net; andprovidingpublic services, such as
power, water, transport, and irrigationwith some cost recovery.

                                                    5


2.3       The 1998 country strategy supported the government's development agenda o f
restoring sustained growth to alleviate poverty. I t focused on three strategic priorities: (i)
governance andinstitution buildingby reformingpublic administrationand the civil
service to establish an accountable, transparent, and efficient state; (ii)       private sector
development through finance and enterprise sector reforms, sustaining agricultural
growth and improving infrastructure; and (iii)        humandevelopment and poverty
alleviation by emphasizing education, health, and social protection. After the Kosovo
crisis in 1999, IDA placedmore emphasis on supporting social sectors, especially health
and education, and on emergency interventions ininfrastructure, such as water and roads.
The CAS Progress Report 2000 continuedto focus onthe above three objectives, but
placedmore emphasis on reducingpoverty, with special attention to the social
underpinningso fpoverty alleviation-social           cohesion and inclusive institutions.

2.4       OED assessed IDA's assistance to Albania inits Country Assistance Evaluation
(CAE) for the 1992-1997 period.* The CAE concluded that IDA's partnership with the
government hadnotable successes. While the civil disorder following the failure o f the
pyramid schemes was a setback, good progress hadbeen achieved inagricultural reform,
price and trade liberalization, small enterpriseprivatization, external debt management,
and infrastructure rehabilitation. Lack o fprogress inkey areas had overshadowed these
achievements, however. Some assistance, such as for the financial sector, had lacked
depth and focus. IDA'Sconcerns about the need for scrutiny and regulationo f the
pyramid schemes were not expressed forcefully. Moreover, while rehabilitationo fhealth
and education facilities hadprogressed, there was limitedprogress inpolicy reforms in
these sectors. Furthermore, the CAE observed that Albania hadnot developed public
administrationand state institutions for a market economy. The lack o f strong focus on
governance and institutionalreformwas also a critical omission.

2.5       The 1998 country strategy was relevant for Albania as it concentrated on the main
constraints to Albania achieving sustained economic growth and reducingpoverty. The
government neededto improve its ability to provide public services effectively and
efficiently and the country's future growth dependedon facilitating private sector
development. Moreover, this country strategy incorporated the CAE's conclusions and
lessons.


Loan Objectivesand Design

2.6       The Albania RehabilitationCredit (ARC) and RecoveryProgram Technical
Assistance Project (RPTA) were approved by the Board on December 9, 1997 to provide
immediate support for resolvingthe financial crisis causedby the pyramid schemes and
furthering structural adjustment.

2.7       ARC was a one tranche operation o f SDR 18.3 million (US25 million) to
provide balance o fpayments support for the first set o f structural reform measures inthe
government's recoveryprogram from the financial crisis. The reforms includedresolving


2The CAE was first issued in 1998 as a confidential document and then re-issued in2000 for public
distribution.

                                               6


the pyramid schemes, reforming the banking sector, strengthening the social safety net
andpromoting employment. A set o f specific pre-Boardconditions for each structural
reform component had to be metprior to approval and funds disbursement: (i)         appoint
external administrators for the four pyramid schemes that hadnot declared bankruptcy at
that time; (ii) appoint administratordmanagers for state-owned banks, restrict their
lendingoperations, and initiate an audit; and (iii) adequatebudget fundingfor
                                                     ensure
increased social assistancebenefits. Inaddition, the credit specified extensive follow-up
measures for each component, designedto ensure continuity o f reforms inpreparation for
subsequentoperations. These measures, however, were not legally binding.

2.8      RPTAwas acredit o f SDR 3.7 million (US$5 million) with the objectives of: (i)
supporting activities to encourage a resumptiono f sustained economic growth under
Albania's economic recoveryprogram (ERP); and (ii)        assisting inpolicy formulation and
institution buildingto facilitate future assistance from donors. It financed the purchase o f
consultancy services, training and equipment for three components: (i)      inthe financial
sector, for bank restructuringand divestiture and buildingbank infrastructure; (ii)   in
public policy, for policy formulation, economic management, public administration
reform, debt management and a pilot activity for judicial reform; and (iii)    inproject
management, for the project implementationunit.

2.9      The Public Expenditure Support Credit (PESC) and Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) were approved by the Board on May 6, 1999 and June 3, 1999 respectively to
provide support duringthe Kosovo refugee crisis and further institutional capacity
buildingand structural adjustment.

2.10     PESCwas a one-tranche operation for SDR22.1 million (US$30 million) to
provide emergency support duringthe Kosovo refugee crisis and safeguard fiscal
discipline. Its objectives included appropriate expenditure and revenue behavior (see
below), while ensuringadequate resources for essential services and structural reforms.
I t also served as a vehicle for cofinancing and parallel financing by other donors.
Specifically, the measures under PESCwere designed to: (i)         maintain adequate
macroeconomic and fiscal stability duringthe crisis by limitingthe budget deficit to 5.5
percent o f GDP and defense expenditure to 4.3 percent o f overall fiscal expenditures; (ii)
ensure adequate fiscal resources, that is, at least at levels o f the approved 1999 budget,
for essential public functions such as social services, infrastructure, and administration;
(iii) fortheuseofbudgetaryfundstransparently,includingtheallocationfor
      account
relief efforts; and (iv) improve coordination and transparency o fthe refugee relief
program,

2.11     SAC was a two-tranche operation for SDR 33.2 million (US$45 million) to back
the government's reform program. It focused on improving government functions and
strengthening the framework for private sector development through the following
measures: (i)  maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic performance; (ii)      completing the
privatization or liquidationo f all small and mediumenterprises (except indefense and
culture) and commencingthe privatizationprocess for telecommunications companies
and banks; (E)strengthening core government administration and governance reforms;
(iv) enhancing legal andjudicial capacity; (v) ensuringthe sustainabilityofpublic

                                                    7


 functions, such as public pension payments; (vi) strengtheningthe financial sector
regulatory framework; and (vii) facilitating titling o f land distributed to private farmers.
After Board approval, SAC received supplemental cofinancing from the Swiss
government (US$2.8 million) and the Norwegian government (US$1.9 million).



3.      ImplementationExperience

Albania RecoveryCredit

3.1     The project became effective on March 19, 1998, about three months after Board
approval, and closed on schedule on December 31, 1998. All pre-Board approval
conditions were im~lemented,~       but follow-up measureswere implementedmore
gradually. There was significant progress inwinding up the pyramid schemes and
reforming the banking sector, but less progress inemployment promotion and social
safety net reforms, where institutionalchangeswere not achieved.

3.2     All pre-Boardconditions and follow-up measureswere implementedfor the
pyramid schemes. All pyramid schemes had ceased operations by 1999. Under ARC,
qualified administrators from internationalaccounting companies were hiredto windup
the schemes still inoperation in 1998. The schemeswere audited and some assets
recovered and distributedto depositors, but the fallout from the episode lingers (see
below).

3.3     All pre-Boardpresentation conditionality andfollow upmeasuresfor banking
sector reforms have been implementedor their objectives achieved. Substantial progress
has occurred inthe financial sector with the help o f IDA'Sfollow-on projects-Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) and Financial Sector InstitutionBuildingTechnical
Assistance (FSIBTA). The three state-owned banks were audited and one was closed,
one privatized and one i s currently up for sale. The Rural Commercial Bank's (RCB)
operations were suspendedand its deposits and some assets transferred to the Savings
Bank (SB). Other assets were transferred to the Bank Assets Resolution Trust (BART),
established to resolve all the state banks' bad debts.

3.4     A team o fforeign bankers was appointed to manage, restructure, and privatize the
National Commercial Bank (NCB). Its bad assets were also transferred to BART.
Privatizationo fNCB was achieved in2001, with a 100percent sale to a consortium o f
IFC, EBRD, and Kent Bank, from Turkey. Unfortunately, Kent Bank became insolvent
in2002 andwas takenover byTurkey's deposit insurance agency. Turkishauthorities
have beenreluctant to resell NCB to a non-Turkish bank and requested more time to find
a qualified Turkishbuyer. Inany case, IFC and EBRD can call shares for resale from the
Turkish authorities. Aside from the resistance from Turkish authorities, the resale o f
N C B shouldnot pose any problems, as it has good management and systems.



 The bindingconditions for disbursing this loan were completed prior to BoardPresentation.

                                                  8


 3.5     SBwas placedunderthe management of areputable foreignbank to prepare it for
privatization. Management reverted to the Ministryo fFinance when that contract
 expired. Attempts to sell the bank in2002 didnot succeed, as no investors were
 interested, partly because o f the internationaleconomic climate andpolitical instability in
Albania. SB was, however, successfully privatizedat the endof 2003 with Raiffeisen
Zentral Bank, an Austrian banking group, as the purchaser.

 3.6     All the pre-Boardpresentation conditions for improving the social safety net were
met and all follow-on measureswere also implemented, but with delays. Improvements
ininternalsecurity facilitated therecoveryofthe social safetynet, especially the
 functioning o f the Social Assistance Agency (NE). This agency has also been assistedby
an IDA follow-on project-Social        Services Delivery Project (SSDP). NEi s fundedby a
central government grant and administered by local governments. The grant was
temporarily withdrawn duringthe 1997 civil unrest, but restored later that year, with an
increase inaveragebenefits. The government provided a capital budget allocation to
improve institutions for orphans and the elderly. The government passed a law regulating
NGO activity in2002, including their involvement inhome care for the sick and elderly
and foster parenting.

3.7      All Board conditions for promoting employment were met, butprogress was slow
incomplyingwith follow-up measures, although theyhave also beenimplemented. An
agreement was reached with the Bank to reduce the duration, level, and eligibility o f
unemployment benefits funded by unemployment insurance to permit a reductioninthe
tax rate for the latter, but it was not adopted until 2002 when the tax rate was lowered
from 6 percent to 4.5 percent. The government didnot transfer responsibility for
deliveringunemploymentbenefits from the Labor Office to the Social Insurance Institute
(SII), but instead it was transferred to the post office and i s now working well. SI1retains
the finance and accounting system for unemployment benefits, however. The
Employment Promotion Law, that the government had agreed to pass in 1998, was
eventually passedin2001. The government proposed to use community works programs
to employ social assistanceclaimants and provide screening for social assistanceclaims.
I t gave the Bank satisfactory terms o freference for the National Committee for
Community/Public Works and appointed that committee.


Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project

3.8      The project became effective on March 19, 1998, about three months after Board
approval. It closed on October 312002, extended three times from the original closing
date o fDecember 31,2000 partly becauseo f the Kosovo refugee crisis and domestic
political instability. A remainingbalance o f US$7,000 was cancelled.

3.9     Good progress has been achieved inall project component^.^ FPTA was
successful insupporting activities under ERP. It achieved the key indicators for
restructuring and divestiture o f state-owned banks: financing a foreign chief operating


  See Annex 1of the "Implementation Completion Report: Albania: Recovery ProgramTechnical
Assistance Project," World Bank Report No. 26253, January 2003.

                                               9


officer for NCB and assisting inits privatization; financing audits o f RCB, NCB, and SB;
assisting inRCB's liquidation; and funding the implementation o f a governance contract
for SB. The project also helpedto establish BART for recoveringbad loans transferred
from state-owned banks and funded an advisor to assist inpreparinga strategy, business
plan and operational guidelines.

3.10    BART is receivingsupport from FSIBTA and FSAC. The agency didnot make
muchprogress under its first director and advisor. A fire that destroyed records didnot
help. Collections through the endo f2001 amountedto only about 3 percent ofthe
portfolio. A diagnostic review inthat year exposed many problems. A new manager was
appointed, a new law came into force in2002, and a Supervisory Boardwas appointed in
November o f that year. A new advisor has helpedto design a Global Scheme for
recoveries. BART administers 18,574 loans for a total obligation o f about Lek 32.4
billion (about US$270 million). Ofthis amount about 62 percent i s principal and 38
percent i s interest. About 85 percent o f these loans are classified as "dead." Moribund
former state-owned enterprises account for about 26 percent andmanufacturing and
business activities about 47 percent o f the amount outstanding. Most loans are for small
amounts. The collection scheme offers discounts on interest arrears for payment by the
endo f2003. Resolutiono fthese obligationswouldbe expedited ifwrite-offs and
discounts o fprincipal were also permittedunder the law. So far, BART i s meetingits
monthly targets. The agency i s expected to close at the end o f 2005.

3.11    RPTA also helped strengthenbankinginfrastructureby fundingan advisor to the
Bank o f Albania to prepare user requirements for establishing Accounting and Treasury
Management (ATM) and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) systems. The project also
supported establishing the Registry o f Secured Charges, which started operation on
January 31, 2001 and had4,000 registrations by the end o f 2002. Since 2002, the registry
i s being fundedby the budget. Finally, RPTA provided funds to fill a gap for the
administration and audits o f the pyramid schemes.

3.12    RPTA strengthened public policy formulation andpublic administration. A
senior advisor providedpolicy advice to senior officials inthe Ministry o f Finance, the
Prime Minister's office and the Council o f Ministers for two and halfyears. A resident
advisor supported the Department o f Public Administration with reforms, which helped
to formulate an IDA follow-on project-Public       AdministrationReform Project (PARP).
Similarly, the project funded a court and casemanagement study that assisted in
formulating IDA'SLegal and Judicial ReformProject. RPTA also supported the Project
Implementationunit with training and improving financial and management systems,
which helpedinimplementingsucceeding projects.

3.13    Some RPTA funds were reallocated to respond to evolving circumstances,
although actual expenditures on each component remained close to estimates. A debt
management/monitoringsystemoriginally included inthe project was taken over by a
UNDPproject. Formulating a strategy for commercialdispute arbitrationhesolutionwas
shifted to a follow-on IDAproject. The saved funds were used for the ATM/RTGS study
and audits o f the pyramid schemes.

                                              10


PublicExpenditureSupport Credit

3.14      The project became effective onMay 13, 1999, a week after Board approval, and
closed on schedule on September 30, 2000. All pre-Board approval conditionality was
completed. Although the Kosovo refugee crisis cost about US$75 million, it was entirely
financed by foreign assistance triggeredby PESC. The government moved quickly and
decisively indealingwith the large influx o f refugees.

3.15     Macroeconomic management was excellent through the crisis period and stability
was maintained. Despite demand pressures, inflation fell due to tight monetarypolicy
and in-kindhumanitarian aid. The domestically financed budget deficit for 1999 was
contained at under 5.5 percent o f GDP and defense expenditures didnot exceed 4.3
percent o f GDP as agreed. Moreover, the current account deficit was 3.5 percent below
projections, reflecting strong exports and lower imports as refugees returnedquickly.

3.16     Expenditure allocations for healthcare and education, public infrastructure
maintenance, the civil service and internal security, judicial institutions andpublic
investmentwere kept at levels projectedinthe 1999budget to ensure that essential public
services were maintained at pre-crisis levels. Expenditurecategories were added to the
budget to provide transparent and accountable budget allocations. A monitoring
mechanism was established to track the use o f budgetresources for the relief effort.
Also, guidelines and procedures were established to account and report the use o f funds
from a special Kosovo account, which was subsequentlyaudited. These innovations
became the foundations for subsequentlyintroducing the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF).

3.17     An Emergency Management Group, ledbythe government andcomprisingall
development and humanitariandonors including the Bank, operated successfully. Aid
distribution was monitoreddaily and the data base was kept current and distributed
widely. As an indirect benefit o fthe Kosovo crisis, infrastructure (roads, water, etc.) in
areas affected by refugees was rehabilitated. The customs service was a bottleneck,
however, causing delays indistribution. Strengthening o fthe customs service has been a
part o f the IMFprogram.


StructuralAdjustment Credit

3.18     Theproject became effective on August 8 1999, about two months after Board
approval. The second tranche was releasedon December 22,2000 and SAC closed on
schedule on December 31,2000. All pre-Boardpresentation and second tranche release
conditions were met.

3.19     Albania was infull compliance with the IMFprogram's fiscal and monetary
targets duringthe SAC period. Macroeconomic stability and growth were maintained;
real GDP growth was 8.3 percent in 1999 and 7.7 percent in2000. This growth was
generated by stronger than expected private investment and consumption, helpedby a
sharp rise inprivate remittances, reflecting improved confidence inthe economy.
Impressiverevenue performance reduced the budget deficit to 5.4 percent o f GDP in

                                               11


 1999 and further to 3.1 percent in2000. Inthat year, the government, with support from
 the WorldBank, prepared a MTEFto provide abasis for establishing strategic priorities
 and rationalizingpublic expenditures. The MTEF i s now inits fourth cycle, with gradual
 improvements inprogramming and budgeting each year. Inflationcontinuedto decline
 to below zero in 1999 because o fmonetaryrestraint, but pickedup to a still low level o f
 4.2 percent in2000. The balance o fpayments current account deficit increased in 1999,
but gross official reserves increasedin2000.

 3.20    By September 2000, all remaining small- andmedium-sizedenterprises remaining
 instate ownership wereprivatizedor liquidated, although the government stillmaintains
partial ownership ina substantial number o f companies. Internationalcompetitive bids
were sought to sell some larger enterprises, includingapharmaceutical factory, brewery,
dairy and winery. All fifteen small copper and sixty six chrome mines were privatizedor
 liquidated. NCB was privatized, although its ownership status i s inlimbo because its
main owner became insolvent (see above). Privatizationo f SB was attempted in2002,
but no bids were received; it was successfully privatizedin2003. The government issued
two mobile telephone licenses to experienced operators through international competitive
tenders. A privatization law for Albania's land-line telecommunications company was
approvedbyparliament and due diligence for an internationaltender completed, but the
transaction has not yet beenconcluded because o f outstanding financial issues. An
internationalaccounting firm and the regulatory authority are trying to resolve the matter.

3.21     The government made significant progress instrengtheningpublic service
functions, judicial and legal, andpensionsystemreform, and indeveloping the land
market. An Inter-Ministerial Committee for Institutional and Governance Reform was
established and it facilitated the approval o fthe Law for Civil Servants inJanuary 2000,
which i s rationalizingthe civil service. The government launched a drive to recruit for
124vacancies inthe civil service. After delays informing the Civil Service Commission,
50 o fthese positions were filled by December 2000, following the new procedures
strictly and overcoming resistance from many ministers. Subsequent rules and
regulations have improved the process and about 450 new recruits have been inducted
into the service. These reforms are beingsupported by an IDA follow-on project-Public
Administration ReformProject (PARP). Generally, the government has respected the
law, giving civil servants security o f tenure. Recently, however, the newly appointed
Prime Minister dismissedsenior officials insensitive revenueposts, such as the customs
and tax services without following the law. Although pressure by IDA and other donors
prevailed and the dismissal decree was rescinded, the government's commitment to
reformhas perhaps weakened.

3.22    The government has continuedto monitor implementation o f its Anti-Corruption
Action Planadopted inJune 1998. Follow-up was weak for the first 18 months. At
donor urging, the government revisedits strategy in2000, placing an energetic Minister
o f State incharge o f implementation; this led to more progress. Since then, a Second
Anti-Corruption Planwas adopted inJuly 2002, with five pillars-public      administration
reform, improving legislationand consolidatingthe rule o f law, improvingpublic finance
management and controlling mechanisms, promotingtransparency and integrityin
business operations, and enhancing public information and promoting active civil society

                                            12


 involvement. The minister has decided to emphasize law enforcement, preventive
 measures, such as public education, and good governance. An interministerial Board,
 with membersfrom government, civil society, and donor representatives, andan
 administrative unitwere established to coordinate and monitor implementation. A third
 conference was convened inJuly 2003 to review performance and agree on an agenda for
 2003-04. Also, a law on asset declaration by the Council o fMinisters was passedand i s
beingfollowed. Corruption is deeply engrained, however, makingprogress slow.

 3.23    Alljudges with less than 10 years experience were tested for re-accreditation.
 Those who failed were dismissed. The Judicial InspectionPanel developed a
performance evaluation system. A State PublicationOffice was established to publish
 legal material to provide wider accessto current laws andjudicial decisions. Progress
with reforms at the Tirana Law School was slower than expected. A comprehensive
reform actionplanwas adopted and its implementation i s being supported by the Legal
 and Judicial Reform Project (LJRP). Reform o fthe legal andjudicial system i s a long-
term process, however.

3.24     Under SAC, the government commissioned atechnicalanalysis ofthepension
systembecauseit was runninga deficit. This analysis provided abasis for designinga
comprehensive reformprogram. Work on strengtheningthe development and
implementation o fpensionpolicy i s continuingunder the Social Services Delivery
Project.

3.25     Substantial progress has been made inestablishing the legal and regulatory
framework for the financial sector. A revised Bank o f Albania Law (central bank) and
Banking Law were approved by Parliament inlate 1997 and 1998 respectively. Laws on
Secured Transactions andMoney Laundering have also beenpassed. Prudential
regulations for banks, broadly inline with Basle Core Principles, have been adopted.
Licensingrequirements for newbanks and capital adequacy requirements for all banks
have beenstrengthened. The Bank o f Albania has received technical assistance to
strengthenboth on- and off-site bank supervision. A deposit insurance scheme hasbeen
launched. The central bank has also introduced SWIFT communications with banks and
adopted an RTGS; implementation o f the latter was expected inearly 2004. Inaddition,
SBhas concluded agreementswithbanks inGreece andItaly andwith Moneygramto
facilitate remittances into Albania.

3.26    SAC targets for completing land registrations were achieved. The government
established a Land Market Action Program (1999-2000) that i s registeringabout 20,000
landtransactions every year. Land distribution documents have beenreceived by 96
percent o f farmers. A follow-on project-The   Agricultural Service Project-is   assisting
the Central RegistryOffice to computerize the landregistration system, improve land
security, and establish a land market.

                                              13


4.        Outcome andAssessment

4.1       The four credits reviewedhere supported Albania duringtwo major crises-the
collapse o f financial pyramid schemes with deposits amountingto 50 percent o f GDP,
and the arrival o f 450,000 refugees from Kosovo. At the same time, the credits furthered
Albania's development goals o fmaintainingmacroeconomic stability and economic
growth, implementingstructural reforms inthe financial and enterprise sectors,
developinginstitutions, and bolstering the social safety net. Moreover, the credits were
consonant with the Bank's country assistance strategies articulated in 1993 and 1999.
Finally, the credits contributedto the Bank's corporate goals o f fostering growth inthe
private sector and reducing poverty. Thus, these credits were highlyrelevant for Albania.

Table 4.1:Project Objectives/Components
Objectives                 ARC               RPTA              PESC              SAC
Macromanagement.                                                 X                 X
Financial Sector            X                 X                                    X
Privatization               X                 X                                    X
Public Admin.                                 X                                    X
Legal and Judicial                            X                                    x
Social Safety Net           X                                                      X


Macroeconomic Performance

4.2       Despite two major crises and domestic political instability, Albania's
macroeconomic and growth performance since 1998, when ARC and RPTAbecame
effective, hasbeen satisfactory, although further reforms are neededto complete the
transition to a market economy. Economic growth averaged over 8 percent per annum
during 1998-2001, althoughit slowed to below 5 percent in2002. Growthwas expected
to accelerate in2003. Agricultural production was adversely affected by drought in2001
and flooding inlate 2002, and industrialproductionwas hit byprotracted electricity
shortages, also partly causedby the drought. Total investment has increased steadily
from 16percent o f GDP in 1997 to about 21 percent in2002,5 with private investment
maintaining a two-thirds share. Net direct foreign investment spiked from US$51million
in1999to US$204millionin2001, butwas downto US$153millionin2002. Political
uncertaintyhasbegunto undermine private investment, especially foreign investment.
Albania's growth i s unbalanced, however, as it i s concentrated inconstruction and
services. Ithas also been sustained by highexternal inflows totaling about 20 percent o f
GDP since 1995. Future growthhas to rely onthe expansion o ftradables, especially
from industryand mining. Further structural reforms (see below) and infrastructure
improvements are neededto make this possible.

4.3       The budget deficit declined from 6.9 percent o f GDP in 1998 to around 3 percent
during2000-2002. Revenue declinedinrecent years becauseslower growthresulted in
lower tax receipts and privatization receipts were lower than expected. These shortfalls
were offset by cuts inoperations andmaintenance expenditures and public investment.
Budgetaryplanninghas improvedwith the introduction o f the National Strategy for


  IMFdata.

                                              14


Social and Economic Development (NSSED) and the MTEF. Because o f prudent fiscal
and monetarymanagement, core inflation averaged about 3 percent per annum during
 1999-2002, althoughthere hasbeen upwardprice pressure triggeredby supply
constraints. Increasing foreign investment, a surge inremittances and a sustained inflow
o f official financing have helpedmeet strong import growth and contributedto a steady
increase inofficial reserves through the 1998-2002 period. The real effective exchange
rate has appreciated steadily since 1992, although at a declining rate. A real depreciation
in2002 brought itback to itsJanuary 2000 level, Albania's competitiveness has suffered
less from this appreciation than from delayed progress in structural reform and lingering
problems ingovernance and infrastructure.6


StructuralReform

4.4      Albania has implementedsubstantial structural reforms and made significant
progress towards a market economy. All prices have beenliberalized and the trade
regimeopened. The IMFrates Albania's trade regime as 1out o f 10on its restrictiveness
index, with 10beingthe most restrictive. The country i s finalizing free trade agreements
with seven Balkancountries. All small- andmedium-scale enterprises andmany larger
enterprises have been privatized. Landhas beenprivatized and a market inland
developed. Finally, Albania has a new legal andjudicial system.

4.5      Structural reforms have slowed since mid-2001, mainly because o frepeated
political changes. Investmenti s still hinderedby administrative barriers, reflecting a
weakness ingovernance and law enforcement and widespread corruption. Inadequate
infrastructure, especially a weak transport system and severe power outages, exacerbates
these constraints. Moreover, many structural targets were met with delays in2002,
includingthe introduction o f longer-term government securities, recordingo f inter-
enterprise arrears and preparations for settlement and a study o f electricitytariffs. The
plannedsales o f SB and Albtelekom inmid-2002 were hinderedby a weak global
market, domestic political instability, and outstanding legal and financial issues in
Albtelekom.


Financial Sector

4.6     At their zenith, the 25 pyramid schemes attracted about US980millionfrom
about 1.8 million depositors. A Supervisory Commission was given a mandate to
identify and liquidate assets and distribute the recovered amounts to depositors. Less
than US50 million has beendistributed. Nine schemes have distributedabout U S 2 0
million ranging from 11to 50 percent o f deposits; another 3 schemes have paid about
U S 2 7 million, representingabout 11percent o f their deposits; and 13 schemes have not
paid anything. The recovery process i s continuing slowly. Recoveries from local assets
are impededby the court system's slow pace and assets heldabroad are difficult to
identifyandrepatriate.



 IMFdata.

                                               15


 4.7     Political involvement inthe schemes partly explains the slow pace o f resolution.
 The government allowed the schemes to operate despite IDA and IMFwarnings about
potentialconsequences. About US$l billion indeposits were collected betweenMarch
 and October 1996,just before the elections, purportedly to finance campaigns. Also,
 about US$lOO million was withdrawn from the schemes inJune/July 1997, just before
 external administrators took charge. Although many miscreants have beenbrought to
justice, rumor has it that the main founders andbeneficiaries remainat large. Politicians
halted the process o f recovery and distribution about six months ago. Parliament
 appointed a commissionto investigate progress inresolving outstanding issues, but it has
not taken any steps so far. Thus, the after effects o f the pyramid schemes linger,
 adversely affecting confidence inthe banking system.

4.8      The infrastructure for the financial system, includingthe central bank law,
payments system, bankingregulations and supervision and deposit insurance, have been
vastly improved. Also, instruments for indirect monetary management have been
introduced. The Bank o f Albania reportedly manages the banking system well. For
example, the central bank was able to control large bank deposit withdrawals inearly
2002 causedby unfoundedrumors o fbank insolvency.

4.9      Although SB i s the largest bank (holding about 57 percent o ftotal deposits at the
end o f2003), it has not beenpermittedto lend. IDAbelievedits credit training, policies
and procedures were not adequate to assess credit risk. Thus, its assets are treasury bills
from recapitalizationand purchases from new deposits. The lendingrestrictionon SB
will soon be liftedfollowing its recent privatization. NCBhas about 10percent o ftotal
deposits, but its assets are also substantially treasury bills from recapitalization. Thus,
with bank assets comprising mainly government instruments, intermediationis mostlyto
the government.

4.10     Privatebanks dominate lending, but according to the Presidento fthe Bankers
Association, they lendonly about 25 percent o f their deposits because o f restrictions
imposedby the Bank o f Albania. For example, collateral requirements are an obstacle to
lending. Many other countries with weak legal systems are able to provide credit to the
private sector with lower collateralrequirements. The Bank o fAlbania does not believe
that its conservative supervision o fbanks and collateral requirementshas restricted credit
growth. Nevertheless, it i s preparingregulatory amendments that would make collateral
requirements more flexible.

4.11     Although credit almost doubledbetween2000 and 2002, it was from a small base.
LendinginLeksremains very limited as banks mainly intermediate betweenLekdeposits
and treasury bills. Foreign currency deposits have risento 33 percent o f total deposits
and foreign currency credit has also grown. Banks are sound, with strong profits and a
low level o fbad loans despite the increase incredit to the private sector. Credit to the
private sector could increase further by establishing a secondary market intreasury bills,
reducing collateral requirements and relaxing some onerous requirements by the central
bank.

                                               16


Privatization

 4.12    As mentionedearlier, the privatizationof all non-strategic commercial enterprises
 i s complete. Most o f the strategic enterprises have also been privatizedthrough sale or
 concession agreements, with the exception o f the land-line telecommunications company
 andpetroleumcompanies, which are inthe transaction process. The privatization o f
 state-owned banks and financial institutions i s also inprocess. NCB and SB have been
 discussed above and the sale o f INSIG,the state-owned insurance company, i s at the
negotiation stage. With the completiono f these transactions, the Albanian economy will
be substantially privately owned.

PublicAdministration

4.13     Progress inprofessionalizingthe civil service has been mixed. Serious resistance
has existed since the civil service law was passed, although the Department o f Public
Administration (DPA) has made efforts to overcome it. Ministers have sought exceptions
to recruitmentprocedures by hiringstaff under contracts, but DPA has managed to limit
these appointments. Encouragingly, competitive recruitmentinto the civil service rose
from 38 percent o f all positions in2000 to almost 60 percent by 2002. Onthe other hand,
ministrySecretary Generals tendto resign voluntarily with change ofministers. As this
positionwas created to maintain administrative continuity, these resignations vitiate the
reason for creating that position. Also, performance appraisals were completed for only
about halfo f civil service positions in2002, with over 90 percent o f the ratings as "good"
or above. Such highappraisal ratings tend to ossify existing staff intheir positions,
leaving little flexibility for promotion for exceptional performance or recruitment o f new
staff, with more appropriate skills. Finally, civil servants do not have confidence inthe
Civil Service Commission's decisions, evidenced by about 95 percent o f adjudicated
grievances beingappealed in2001. Thus, evidence on whether the civil service i s based
on merit or politics i s mixed.

4.14    MTEF i s inits fourth cycle and becominginstitutionalized as the process by
which the budget i s prepared and implemented. Sector strategies are now preparedby six
ministries, up from three inthe first iteration and five inthe second iteration. The
MinistryofFinance is approachingbudgetingmore systematically andlinkingitwith
NSSED. In2002, the budget preparationprocess was debated inParliament, discussed
with NGOs and analyzed by the media. MTEFis also contributingto budget execution
by achievingconsensus with ministries duringformulation and enablingthe Ministryo f
Finance to track executionduringthe year. Evidenceon procurement i s mixed, however.

Legal and Judicial Reform

4.15    Legal andjudicial reform i s apriority for Albania, stressed inits NSSED, and
supported by IDA's Legal and Judicial ReformProject (LJRP). Albania's legislative
framework continues to be refined, but the major focus i s on implementation. IDA's on-
going project i s continuing the reforms started under SAC. Implementationo freforms
set out ina 1999 Action Planfor Tirana University'sFaculty o f Law has improved. For

                                               17


the academic year 2002/2003, student intake was limitedand selection was on an
objective and competitive basis. The faculty has improved its program for staff
development, includingperformance evaluation. It has a twinning arrangement with
Middlesex University inLondon. Nepotism inselecting faculty for training programs
and manipulating evaluation surveyhas not been eradicated, however. Also, the civil
works to improve the law school's premises have beencancelled because o f dispute over
land ownership. The Magistrate's School i s doing better. It has expanded its programs
and improved the quality o ftraining, which has also been linkedto performance
evaluation.

4.16     Court administrationhas improved ineveryrespect, although from a low base.
Judges are better, partly because o f training andperformance evaluation; their decisions
are published; enforcement o f decisions has improved; and court administrationi s based
on internalregulations and has new systems andphysical infrastructure. New laws are
beingpassedto extend legal services for a market economy, for example to establish a
regimefor commercial arbitration, and accessto legal informationhas improved
significantly. Despitethese substantial improvements, a comparative surveyby BEEPS
o f the rule o f law conducted in2002, ranks Albania inthe lower range interms o f
fairness, honesty, speed, enforceability, etc. Indeed, Albanian perceptions o f the rule o f
law show a deterioration from a similar survey done in 1999 (this i s the case for all other
SEE andECA countries). Legal andjudicial reformis a long-termprocess inAlbania
because o f its poor initial situation. Several other donors are also supporting these
reforms, resultinginsome coordinationproblems.


SocialSafety Net

4.17     Albania's social safety net systemhas beenrestored, but needs further reform to
be sustainable. Albanians remainpoor. A 1998 survey found that one inevery two
families was livingon less than US$2 per day. Poverty i s concentrated inrural areas and
i s compounded by inadequate basic social services. A draft national strategy for social
care services was discussed with stakeholders at a workshop heldinMarch 2003. With
the help o f an advisor, a working group i s reviewingthe legal framework to draft a new
social services law, to be presented to Parliament. A Living Standards Measurement
Surveywas completed anda PovertyMonitoring and Statistical Unitwas establishedto
helpmonitorpoverty and feed into policy formulation. Regionalplans for community-
based social care services have beenprepared for four pilot regions and are being
reviewed. The government commissioned a technical analysis o f the pension system
becauseit was runninga deficit. This analysis provided a basis for designinga
comprehensive reformprogram. Also, remittances from seasonal and permanent
migrants have provided an informal safety net.


Ratings

4.18     As noted above, ARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC were relevant, as their objectives
were consistent with Albania's development needs andpriorities and IDA'Scorporate
goals and country assistance strategy. Moreover, the objectives o f each project were

                                               18


 substantially met. InARC, the pyramid schemes were halted, the financial sector
 stabilized, and social safety net restored. RPTA successfully provided consulting
 services for the financial sector and public policy formulation. It also initiated the reform
 process inpublic administrationand the legal andjustice system. PESC helpedmaintain
 macroeconomic stability and ensure adequate fiscal resources for public resources during
 the Kosovo crisis. PESC also initiatedbudget process reforms. SAC helpedto complete
 privatization o f small- and medium-scale enterprises and continue structural reforms in
 public administration, the legal andjustice system, the financial sector, and landtitling.
 Thus, Albania received critical support duringtwo crises and several important reforms
 were implemented. This report assesses the outcomes of ARC, RPTA, PESC, and
 SAC as satisfactory,in agreementwith OED's ICR reviews.

 4.19    The reforms supportedby ARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC are likely to be sustained
 for several reasons. First, the government i s committedto achieving a market economy
with the private sector as the engine for future growth. It has continued the reform
process through two major crises and substantial political instability. Joining the
European Unioninthe future i s an important motivation for the government to continue
withreforms. Second, IDAhasbacked the process with follow-on credits (FSIBTA,
FSAC, SSDP, LJRP, PAFV) with conditionality to maintain the reform momentum.
Third, becauseother donors aligntheir assistance to IDAconditionality, and as Albania
will need foreign assistancefor the foreseeable future,the government is likely to adhere
to the reformprogram. Thus, this report assesses the sustainabilityof all four
projects as likely. OED's ICR reviews also ratedthe sustainabilityof PESC, RPTA,
and SAC as likely, but that ofARC was rateduncertainbecauseof inadequate
evidenceat that time for a likely rating.

4.20     ARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC made substantial contributions to institutional
development. Eachproject contributedto defininginstitutional mandates and assisted in
buildingcapacity to achieve its objectives with improvedstability and transparency.
Moreover, they all supported reforms that increased the country's ability to make more
efficient, equitable and sustainable use o f its resources. The financial sector was
stabilized, banks closed and privatized and infrastructureestablished. Enterprises were
privatized, and the public administration, legal andjudicial system and social safety net
were reformed. Thus, this report assesses the institutionaldevelopmentimpact of
ARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC as substantial. OED's ICR reviews ratedthe
institutionaldevelopmentimpactof RPTA, PESC, and SAC as substantial,but that
of ARC was rated as modest. By supportingbankingsystemand social safety net
reforms, which havecontinued, ARC'Scontributionto institutionaldevelopment
impactwas substantial.

4.21     With respect to IDA'Sperformance, as mentioned earlier, all the credits were
consonant with Albania's development priorities and consistent with IDA'Sassistance
strategy and therefore relevant. ARC and RPTA were prepared inabout 45 days to
respond quickly to the collapse o f the financial pyramid schemes. Continuing dialogue
with the government and existing economic and sector work and projects, especially in
the financial sector, provided a solid foundation for identifying important conditions that
were met prior to Board approval for ARC anduse o f technical assistance funds for

                                              19


 RPTA. The follow-on measuresincludedinARC were addedto maintainreform
 momentum. Despite this unusual feature that could have become contentious, the quality
 at entry o fboth credits was satisfactory.

 4.22   PESC and SAC were also prepared very quickly (18 days for PESC) inresponse
 to the Kosovo refugee crisis. For PESC, on-going analysis by the IMFand IDA and
 dialogue with the government on public finance issues made quick preparationpossible.
 Credit conditions were met prior to Board approval. The Quality Assurance Group rated
 SAC'Squality at entry as satisfactory. The assessment, however, noted that governance
 reformmeasures should have been better articulated. IDA'Scontinuing dialogue with the
 government and follow-on operations providedclarification o f governance reforms.
 Thus, the quality at entry for PESC and SAC i s rated as satisfactory.

 4.23   Supervision for ARC was not necessary, as all bindingconditions hadbeen met
before Board approval. Implementation o f the non-binding conditions was tracked while
 supervisingother related IDA operations mentionedabove. RPTAwas supervised
regularly through its five-year implementation period, with adequate resources and
appropriate skill mix. Staffresponded flexibly and effectively to changing circumstances
and compliedwith financial management and safeguard policies. Supervisionreports
were timely and satisfactory. PESC was a one-tranche operation where all the conditions
were met prior to Board approval. It did not require supervision. SAC'S supervision
benefitedfrom strong support by the County Director, who provided adequate resources
and raised concerns about implementation at the highest levels. IDA staff continuity
through second tranche release also helped.

4.24    This report assesses IDA'Sperformance as highly satisfactoryfor PESC,
becauseof its very quick response to a crisis, and satisfactoryfor ARC, RPTA, and
SAC, in agreementwith OED's ICR reviews.

4.25    The government collaborated fully inpreparingARC, RPTA, PESC, and SAC
despite the crises and changes ingovernment. All conditions were met without any
waivers for ARC, PSEC, and SAC. The government implementedprudent
macroeconomic policies, a new framework for the budget process, financial sector and
social safety net reforms, and enterprise privatization, and maintainedpriority
expenditures for public services and improved institutional capacity inpublic services.
Despite delays in some lower priority reform areas, the government implementedan
onerous agenda duringa difficult period and without many officials trained inmodern
market economy skills. RPTAtook two years longer to implementthan originally
planned, partly becauseo f frequent changes ingovernment. The economic climate did
not permit bank privatization accordingto the original timetable, but that timetable may
have beenunrealistic. The public policy and economic management component o f
RPTAwas implementedsmoothly. Evidently, the government was committedto the
reforms and implementing agencies substantially followed through by implementing
them. This report assesses borrower performance as highly satisfactory for PESC,
becauseof the government's strong commitment and prompt implementation of its
conditionality, and satisfactoryfor ARC, RPTA, and SAC, in agreement with
OED's ICR reviews.

                                        20


5.  Lessons

    0 Small, focused, one-tranche policy projects with realistic objectives,
      supported by technical assistance, may work well intransition countries that
      are politically unstable and have low market economy skills (e.g., credit risk
      analysis for private sector banking or enforcing competitionregulations). A
      limited reform agendai s easier to implement, especially ifparliamentary
      approval i s neededfor new laws when the political landscape i s not stable.
      Reformcontinuity can be maintainedby similar policy or investmentfollow-
      on projects.


    0 Incrisis situations, animmediate responsecanbevaluable beyondits direct
      purpose. For example, the very quick preparation and disbursement o f PESC
      was effective inproviding development assistance and coordinating
      substantial humanitarianassistance.


    0 PESC was disbursed against a negative list o f imports instead o f the positive
      list that i s usual for an emergency import credit. Disbursementagainst a
      negative list expedited resource transfer, which was appropriate inAlbania's
      circumstances.

    0 As hasbeenwell documented, aid coordinationis critical to ensure
      appropriate, harmonizedand effective assistance where many donors are
      involved. Coordination should also ensure that government agencies dealing
      with donors are also appropriately aligned.

      Some institutions established for special purposes under IDAprojects such as
      BART, couldbe transformed into private sector commercialentities when
      their mandate i s complete. This transition could be an integralpart o f that
      organization's strategy.

                                             21                                Annex A


                              List of MeetingsandDiscussions

IDA and IFC Staff
Helena Tang
Kathryn Funk
Mansour Farshad
A h a Kanani
Sandra Bloemenkamp
Gary Reid
Shamsher Singh
MengistuAlemayehu
Elira Sakiqi
Greta Minxhozi
EugenScanteie
Jolanda Trebicka
Rochelle Hilton
LorenaKostallari

IMFStaff
S. Hosain Samiei
C. Jarvis

EBRDStaff
Antero Baldini
Kiyoshi Nishimura

Albanian GovernmentOfficials and PrivateSector
K r i s Luniku, Assistant in Executive Director's Office, ex-Bank o f Albania
Rezar Turidu, PIUDirector RPTA, Ministryo fFinance
MimozaDhembi, Director o f Budget Department, Ministryo fFinance
RichardLysakowski, Advisor to BART
Adriana Berberi, DeputyMinister o fFinance
Sokol Qeraxhi, Bank o f Albania
Eris Sharxhi, Bank o fAlbania
Anastas Angjeli, ex-Minister o f Finance and current Member o f Parliament
ArbenMalaj, Minister of Economy
Gjergj Teneqexhi, General Secretary, Ministryo fFinance
Milva Ikonomi, Institute o f Statistics
Ylli Buffi, current Member ofParliament
Farudin Arapi, Director, Commission o f Pyramid
Mr.Islami, MinisterofFinance
Adrian Fullani, President o fBankers Association
FiloretaKodra, Director o fDepartment o f Public Administration
Artan Hoxha, Research Director, Institutefor ContemporaryStudies
Yilli Cabiri, President, HumanDevelopmentPromotionCenter, ex-Minister ofLabor


                                              23                                           Annex B



BasicData Sheet

REHABILITATIONCREDIT (CREDIT 3015)

Key Project Data(amounts        in US$million)
                                            Appraisal          Actual or            Actual as % of
                                            estimate        current estimate      appraisal estimate
Totalprojectcosts                             25                  25                    100
Loanamount                                    25                  25                    100
Cofinancing
Cancellation

Cumulative EstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                     FY98
Appraisalestimate (US$M)              25
Actual(US$M)                          25
Actualas % o festimate                100
Date offinal disbursement                            April 14, 1998

ProjectDates
                                                   Planned                          Actual
Identificatioflreparation                                               September/October,I997
Appraisal                             October 10, 1997                  October 10,1997
Negotiations                          October28, 1997                   October28, 1997
LetterofDevelopmentPolicy                                               November12,1997
BoardPresentation                     December9,1997                    December9,1997
Signing                                                                 December 19, 1997
Effectiveness                                                           March19, 1998
Closingdate                           December31,1998                   December31,1998


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                                                       ual
                             Weeks     US$         Weeks          US$        Weeks
Pre-appraisal - Appraisal    15        83.0          16.2         74.7       17.4          82.7
Appraisal                                            3.2           9.6         3.4         10.4
NegotiationsthroughBoard
approval                                                                      4.6          27.5
Supervision                                                                                  .2
Completion                                                         5.0         0.1
Total                        15        83.0         19.4          89.3       25.5        120.8

Annex B                                                 24


Mission Data
                     Date       No. of    Staff  Specializationa         Performance                 Typesof
                    (month/     persons   days     represented               Rating                 problems'
                     year)                  in
                                          field
                                                                 Implementation    Development
                                                                     Status         Objectives
Preparation&          8197         5        10    E,F,L,H,O            S                 S
Appraisal
Appraisal            10197         4
through              12197         3
Board approval
SupervisionI
SupervisionI1
SupervisionI11
Completion


  aSpecializedStaffskills:
 E Economist
    =
 F Financial Sector Specialist
    =
 L=LaborEconomist
 H=HumanResources Specialist
 0=Operations Analyst
 C = Consultant

 bPerformanceRating:
  1=Minor Problems2 = ModerateProblems3 = Major Problems
  HS = Highly Satisfactory S = Satisfactory

   Types of Problems:
 F Financial
   =
 T  =Technical
 M=Managerial

 Supervisionfor the ARC was monitored through the following ongoingprojects: Social Safety Net Development
Project (2543-AL), Labor Market DevelopmentProject (2544-AL), TechnicalAssistance RecoveryProject (3016-AL)
and Enterpriseand Financial sector Adjustment Credit (2649AL).

                                                    25                                   Annex B


Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency: Ministryof Finance
FOLLOW-ON    OPERATIONS
                                                                               Year of
Operation                                              Purpose                 Approval    Status
1. TechnicalAssistancefor Economic       Support implementationofreforms        FY93
Reform                                   inmacroeconomicmanagement,
(2492-AL)                                enterpriserestructuringand
                                         privatization, and financial sector
                                         reform.

2. TechnicalAssistance for Social Safety Reformofthe Government'ssocial         FY93
NetDevelopment(2543-AL)                  protectionsystem.

3. Labor MarketDevelopmentProject        Assist the Government increating       FY94
(2544-AL)                                the policyand institutional
                                         conditionsfor the developmentof
                                         an active andresponsivelabor
                                         market.

4. EnterpriseandFinancialsector          Assist the Governmentin                FY95
Adjustment Credit (2649-AL)              privatizing state-ownedenterprises
                                         and initiatingreformsofthe
                                         bankingsector.

5 . RehabilitationCredit (3015-AL)       Providequick-disbursingfunds           FY97
                                         in support o fthe Government's
                                         reformprogram.

6. TechnicalAssistanceRecoveryProgram    Support the implementationofhigh       FY97
Project(3016-AL)                         priorityreforms underthe EW in
                                         the financial sector, public
                                         administrationandproject
                                         managementand implementation.

7. StructuralAdjustment Credit           Support reforms inpublic               FY99
                                         administrationand the Judiciary,
                                         agriculturesector andthe social
                                         insurancesystem

Annex B                                  26


Basic Data Sheet

RECOVERY           PROGRAM  TECHNICAL   ASSISTANCEPROJECT(CREDIT 3016)

Key ProjectData(amounts US$million)
                               in
                                       Appraisal         Actual or              Actual as % of
                                        Estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Totalprojectcosts
Loanamount                               5.00               4.93                     98.6
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                0.07

CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                 FY98   FY99      FYOO        FYOl          FY02          FYO3
Appraisal estimate (USSM)         1.o   2.90       4.50        5.00
Actual(US$M)                     0.1     1.86      3.50        4.24         4.46          4.93
Actualas % of appraisal           10     64         78          85           89.          98.6
Date of final disbursement:                                                      February28,2003

ProjectDates
                                              Original                          Actual
                                              09/12/97
AppraisaVNegotiations                                                          12102197
Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
Board Approval                                                                 12/09/97
Signing                                         091                            12119197
Effectiveness                                 03119198                         03119/98
Closingdate                                   12131/00                         1013 1/02


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                Weeks                US$
IdentificationPreparation                                         NA
Appraisal1Negotiations                                            NA             133,902
Supervision                                                       NA            358,750
ICR                                                               NA              15,000
Total                                                                            507,652

                                                   27                                        Annex B


Mission Data
                                             staff      Specializations          Performance Rating
                           Date      No. of days in       represented
                       (month/year) Persons*field
                                                                            Implementation Development
                                                                                Status      Objectives.
Identification/        09112197        3           Banking Specialist(l),         S              S
Preparation                                        Sr. OperationsOfficer
                                                   (l), ProjectOfficer
                                                        Sr.
                                                   (1)

AppraisalINegotiation 12/02/97         4           Banking Specialist(2),
                                                   Sr. Project Officer (1)
                                                   Consultant (1)

Supervision            05115/98        3           Operations Officer (l),
                                                   Sr. Financial Analyst
                                                   (I), Project Officer (1)

                        11/09/98       4           Operations Officer (l),
                                                   Project Officer (l), Sr.
                                                   Financial Spec. (l), Sr.
                                                   Financial Analyst (1)

                       06128/99        4           Operations Officer (l), S                     S
                                                   Banking Specialist(2),
                                                   Project Officer (1)

                       11/12/99        3           Sr. Financial Specialist
                                                   (2), Project Officer (1)

                       03/10/00        4           Task Leader (l),
                                                   Financial Sector Spec.
                                                   (2), Project Officer (1)

                       09/23/00        4           Task Team Leader(l),           S              S
                                                   Financial Sector (I),
                                                   Project Officer (l),
                                                   Procurement(1)

                       02109101        s4          Task Team Leader (l),          S              S
                                                   PtllBanking Sector (l),
                                                   Consultant -Fin. Sect.
                                                   (l), Officer(1)
                                                       Project

ICR                    07120101        3           Task Team Leader (l),                         S
                                                   Operations Officer (l),
                                                   Financial Sector Spec.
                                                   (1)
* Excluding  consultants

Annex B                                       28



 Basic Data Sheet

PUBLICEXPENDITURE           SUPPORT CREDIT (CREDIT 3197)

Key Project Data(amounts        in US$million)
                                            Appraisal         Actual or        Actual as % of
                                             estimate      current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                             30                30                 100
Credit amount                                  30                30                 100
Cofinancing
Cancellation

CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                                      FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                               30
Actual (US$M)                                           30
Actual as % of amraisal                                 100
                 I I -
Dateof final disbursement:                           May 13, 1999

ProjectDates
                                                   Original                    Actual
IdentificationPreparation
Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                                                   04/05/99
Appraisalhlegotiations                                                        04/07/99
Approval                                                                      05/06/99
Effectiveness                                      05/13/99                   05/13/99
Closingdate                                                                   09130100


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle       No. Staff Weeks      US$(000)
IdentificationiPreuaration         12.6             47.6
AppraisalNegotiation                1.6              5.O
Supervision                         5.2             22.6
ICR                                  1.9             11.0
Total                            21.3                86.2

                                               29                                      Annex B


Mission Data
                               Date     No. of      Specializations   Performance Rating
                            (monthbear) persons      represented
                                                                      Implementation  Development
                                                                          Status       Objective
IdentificationPreparatiod

AppraisalNegotiation        4199       6        Sr. Guarantee
                                                Specialist,
                                                Sr. Country
4/99 (all steps                                 Economist,
completed during a                              Public Expenditure
single mission)                                 Management
                                                Specialist,
                                                Country Director,
                                                Resident
                                                Representative,
                                                Public Administration
                                                Specialist
                                                (Consultant)


Supervision                                                           HS              HS

Fromupdating report(7199).
No supervisionmission
requiredfor this one tranche
adjustment operation. The
underlyingprogramwas
supervisedas part o f the
SAC (Cr.32310-ALB)

ICR
No mission                             1        Consultant

Annex B                                           30


Basic Data Sheet

STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT                  CREDIT (CREDIT 3231)

Key ProjectData(amounts            in US$ million)
                                                Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as % of
                                                estimate        current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                45                 45                  100
Original Credit amount                             45                 45                  100
Cofinancing
     Government of Switzerland                     2.8               2.8                  100
     GovernmentNorway                              1.9                1.9                 100



CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                                                                   FYOl
Appraisal estimate (USrSM)                                                          45
Actual (US$M)                                                 20                    45
Actual as % o f appraisal                                     44                    100
Date o f final disbursement:                                                      December22,2000



ProjectDates
                                                      Original                      Actual
Identification -Pre-appraisal
Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                                                        02/11/99
Appraisal                                                                          02119/99
Approval                                                                           06/03I99
Effectiveness                                         08/09/99                     08109i99
                                                       1213li00                     12131/00



StaffInputs(staffweeks)
 -  3

                                                             Esti
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$(`000)
Identificatioflreparation                  54                           183.2
AppraisallNegotiation                    16.1                           77.0
Supervision                               50*                           172*
ICR
Total                                   120.1                          435.0
*SPN and ICR cannot be separatedin SAP.

                                                 31                                        Annex B


 Mission Data
                           Date      No. of  Specializations represented      Performance Rating
                        (month/year) persons
                                                                        Implementation  Development
                                                                          Progress        Objective
Identification1                         5    Mission Leader,                  S
Preparation                                  PublicAdministration
                                             Expert,
                                             PensionExpert,
                                             PrivatizationExpert,
                                             Macroeconomist
AppraisallNegotiations FY99             8    MissionLeader,                   S               S
                                             PublicAdministration
                                             Expert,
                                             Public ExpenditureExpert,
                                             Legal andJudicialExpert,
                                             Agricultural Economist,
                                             FinancialSectorExpert,
                                             PrivatizationExpert,
                                             PensionExpert

                       03199                                                  S

Supervision            FYOO             8     Mission Leader,                 S
                       11199                  PublicAdministration
                                              Specialist,
                       06100                  Public ExpenditureExpert,
                                              Legal andJudicialExpert,
                                              Agricultural Specialist,
                                              FinancialSectorExpert,
                                              Privatization Expert,
                                              PensionExpert

ICR                   FYOl              2    Project Team Leader and          S               S
                                             (ICR) Project Reviser


                                        33                                          Annex C

                    Comments fromthe Government




                            REPUBLIKA E SHQIPEIUSE
                             MINISI'RIA F:FINANCAVE                  ___
                                                                      -,. ,   __.-          8*&-
                                                                                              .
                                                                                    * - -' -
                       DREJTORIA Ii'I'HESAWT DHEBORXHlT

Nr.. :I.. .. ...hot.
      '.i
    I                                                       Tirane, m&.O4.2W



Per:           z. ~    ~P m wes
                           l
               hfcnaxheriLurk
               Grupi i vleresimilpcr vcndin dhe nmrredfieuietrajcinalc
               Deptarnenli i Vlcrcsimit tc Operaciimcw
               Banka Rutcrore-Washington
Per dijeni:    Z. BiagioILC)SSOHE
               Drejtor iikxckutiv,
               Uanka BW~rt.-WiiSt~gt.llngton
               Zj. OrsaliaICALAYTZQPOUt.OS
                Drcjtor Vendi dhe Kordmator Hajonal pcr
               EurupenJugliitdoredhe Ayinc Qendrore
               Banka Boterorc-Washinyton
               2.Kristaq I.UNIKU
               Asistent i DrejtoritEkzekutit,
               Ranka Boterore-Washington

Sufijckti:     ICrcdia e Rehahilitimit (kredia ur. 3015), Pmjekti iAsistences Teknike
               per Programin e Riniekcmbjes @redia nr. 30161, Kredirr ne
               mbeshtetje tc Shpenzimeve Pubiike (kredta nr. 31971, k e d i a per
               RrrgullimeStrukturore (kredia nr, 3231)
               Yrajekt-rapwt Ivlererimit te surise se projektlt

IntlwuarZoteri.

Duke vlercsurrr mbeshtetjen e Shoyatcs Ncierkmnbetare pcr Xhvillim (IDA) ucpennjct
kalcr projekteve te lartpmcndura ne nje kohe kur Shqipcria po perballej nic vcshtiresi si
reniltat i skemave pifamidale dhe krizes kosovare, Jeshiroj t'ju shpmh mironjohjen e
Qeberise Shqiplsm: per mbeshtetjen&e i'ju l*alcnderojper pergatitjcne raportit vle~sues
per keto pmjcktc.

Psianalinlam                      it c vlcresiinit, shprehcmi tlakord me pertrrbajijm c tij.

Annex C                                           34

                     Comments from the Government (English Version)


                                        Republicof Albania
                                        Ministry of Finance
                                   Treasury andDebt Department



Prot. No. 3282

                                                                                    Tirana, 04/22/2004

To: Mr.Kyle Peters
Senior Manager
Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank, Washington

cc: Mr.Biagio Bossone
Executive Director
The World Bank, Washington

Mrs.OrsaliaKalanatzopoulos
Country Director andRegional Coordinator
For South East Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank, Washington

Mr.KristaqLuniku
Assistant to the Executive Director
The Word1Bank, Washington

Dear Sir,

Re: Rehabilitation Credit (Credit no. 3015); Technical Assistancefor Recovery Program Project
(credit no. 3016); Public Expenditures Support Credit (Credit no. 3197), Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit no. 3231)
Draft Project Per$ormance Assessment Report

         While appreciating the support o f the International Development Association through the
four above mentioned projects at a time when Albania was being faced with deep crises as a
result o f the collapse o f the pyramid schemes (fund raisers) and as a result o f the Kosovo crises, I
would like to express the gratitude o f the Government o f Albania for the support received and
would like to thank you for the formulation o f the assessmentreport for these projects.

         After a careful analysis of the draft Project Performance Assessment Report, we hereby
endorse its content.

Arben Malaj
Minister

