                                                                                            87486
                                                                                     CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                       EDS20d1~0357

                                                                                           July 12, 2001
                                                                                           11:59:20 AM



  Statement by Yuzo Harada
  Date of Meeting: July 12, 2001

TURKEY: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, Programmatic Financial and Public
      Sector Adjustment Loan, and Agricultural Reform Implementation Project

  Introduction

  We appreciate very much the efforts of the Turkish authorities, who developed the new economic
  program entitled "Turkey's Program for Transition to a Strong Economy" in mid-April, and Bank
  Management and Staff, who developed this CAS Progress Report in coordination with the IMF,
  in the face of the crisis after the CAS discussions at the Board in December 2000.

  World Bank's Contribution to the Financing Package

  Appropriate and strong assistance of the IFis - the IMF and the World Bank- is important for
  dealing with this crisis. Therefore, we support an IBRD contribution of US$2 billion out of a
  US$10 billion package of exceptional financing from the IMF and the World Bank (IBRD) in
  2001. With regard to IBRD's US$ 2 billion 2001 contribution, it is also appropriate that US$ 0.8
  billion will be provided by front-loaded disbursements from the existing US$ 5 billion envelope
  and US$ 1.2 billion will be provided through new financing under Special Structural Adjustment
  Loan (SSAL) terms. These changes provide for strong Bank involvement and realization of
  SSAL objectives.

  On the other hand, the Government's program anticipates a V-shaped recovery and that Turkey's
  access to international capital markets is expected to improve in 2002-03 as confidence returns.
  However, in light of the two financial crises that have eroded market confidence, the market
  might have the impression that this projection is somewhat optimistic. We would like to hear
  Management's view in this regard.

  Priorities of the World Bank

  While the collaboration and package between the IMF and the Bank is integral, it is important to
  maintain a division of labor such that the IMF would deal with monetary and macroeconomic
  issues while the World Bank Group would deal with social and structural issues, including the
  protection of vulnerable groups. Therefore, it is quite appropriate that the Bank Group's revised
  CAS program increases the focus on banking and public sector reforms and enhances assistance
  to Turkey in order to strengthen its social protection. Given this direction, the proposed drastic
                                                                   2



reforrtmlation of the !BRD lending program,including the cancellation of the Second Tranche of
the FSAL I which was approved last December, as well as the postponement arid alteration of
some operations, has been adequately prioritized in order to correspond to the Government's ·
reform program. Therefore, we endorse this revision.

Having said that, we would like to comment on these prioritized issues.

     (1)   Banking and Public Sector Reform

     A Programmatic Approach, which is proposed by Management in order to deal with the
     reform agenda, supports a phased implementation of a comprehensive reform program.
     Therefore, it is an appropriate instrument because it is effective and efficient at dealing with a
     complex structural reform agenda. Moreover, the proposed array of programmatic loans is
     important in order to maintain Government incentive for reform because future reforms may
     slow down as the economy recovers.

     We welcome that measures to strengthen the fiduciary framework, including a completed
     Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR) and Country Procurement Assessment
     Report (CPAR) and on-going Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CF AA), have
     been carried out in designing this instrument.

     The timeline proposed for the indicative lending program for the remainder of CY01
     addresses the financial and public sectors together concomitantly, reflecting the inter-linkage
     of the reforms in the two sectors, and later separately, reflecting the institutional detail of
     each sector. This timeline will appropriately provide for feasible continuation of the reforms.

     It is appropriate that the proposed First Programmatic Financial and Public Sector
     Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL I), the first loan addressing both financial and public sector
     issues, has a higher proportion of financial sector actions that are needed quickly in order to
     reduce vulnerabilities in the banking sector. As far as the PFPSAL I is concerned, the
     proposed assistance to the financial sector, including an overhaul of the regulatory framework
     for banking activity and state bank restructuring and privatization as well as the assistance to
     the public sector, including public expenditure management and public liability management,
     is urgent.

     Even if the financial sector, which can directly address the crisis, is focused, its reform
     agenda, after the February crisis, is now broader than envisaged when the FSAL I was
     prepared. It is rational that some operations in the financial sector, which were proposed in
     the CAS, are proposed to be combined into a programmatic approach in order to
     appropriately and comprehensively address the agenda. Therefore, we support the PFPSAL I
     which is an important first step in the phased and comprehensive reform assistance program.
     We wish its successful implementation.

     Having said that, we would still like clarification on the PFPSAL regarding three points.
     First, the PFPSAL document seems to be designed based on the situation and projection as of


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                  3



                                                                                   in
     May 2001. For example, the possibility of an _increase nO'n-perfonniflg loans can now- be ~··
     better predicted than in May, so we would fike to hear if there is ·something additiomtl that ·
     needs to be explained. Second, the November 2000 banking crisis resulted from the fact that
     the asset portfolio of a medium-sized private bank (Demir) was centered on Government
     securities and thus, financially vulnerable. We would like clarification on how this issue is
     addressed in the PFPSAL. Third, we would like to hear Management's view at this stage
     regarding the possible targets before and after the PFPSAL II.

     (2) Social Protection

     We highly appreciate that this Progress Report also pays attention to assistance to groups
     affected by the crisis and those potentially affected by structural reforms, such as a social
     impact assessment.       In this regard, we support the proposed Agricultural Reform
     Implementation Loan, which is designed to mitigate potential short-term adverse impacts of
     reform in that it assists farmers who will no longer receive price ~upports and other
     distortional subsidies, as well as helping implement the Government's structural reform in the
     agricultural sector, which accounts for 16% of GDP. Budgetary support provided by the
     PFPSAL is also expected to help the Government finance costs stemming from the financial
     crisis while continuing to fund critical social programs.

     Furthermore, we also appreciate that IDRD selectively prioritizes and continues parallel
     support to the social sector as this has a positive long-term impact on aspects of the human
     and sustainable development agenda, such as education and health.

Other Points to be Noted

We would also like to note two points on the overall new Bank lending program.

     Regarding one of the Revised Triggers for the High Case envisaging a sustained fiscal
     adjustment yielding a primary surplus for the consolidated public sector of at least 5.5 percent
     of GNP, this requirement is critical for maintaining an austerity budget and implementing the
     Government's program, which incorporated this target, in order not to erode market
     confidence in the program. We strongly expect authorities' efforts to adhere to the
     precondition.

     Under the High Case lending program with the SSALs, IDRD debt outstanding and disbursed
     would increase from US$3.6 billion or 3.0 percent of the total mRD portfolio. as of
     December 2000, to US$9.2 billion or around 7.2 percent of the total IDRD portfolio in 2003.
     Such risks are acknowledged by the CAS Progress Report, and a prudent monitoring of
     Turkey's creditworthiness is important. Furthermore, as financial crises of such a large scale
     were not predicted until the first crisis in November 2000, the idea of an Early Warning
     Mechanism should be incorporated in future reform programs and Bank assistance.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   4




· We appreciate that IFC is adjusting it.s .short-term strategy to respomfto the financial-crisis, while
  th~ U11derlying medium- and long-term strategy remains the same as presented in the CAS .. Thus,
  IFC has a role to play by taking risks; but at the same, as the CAS Progress Report correctly
  points out, IFC must maintain its reputation as an internationally credible investor with a AAA
  rating. Therefore, we support the focus on a few key, visible interventions, with strong
  demonstration effects and positive impacts on market psychology.

 In this regard, it is appropriate that IFC proceed with its assistance with the Bank and place
 priority on (1) the financial sector; (2) restructuring industrial companies; and (3) privatization
and FDI. We would like more concrete clarification on the resolution of issues regarding
non-performing loans, work with mid-sized banks, and the advisory role in the privatization of
Turk Telekom.

 Conclusion

 The most important thing in proceeding with the reforms entailing various risks and "pain" is
 ownership backed by strong political will and timely implementation of policies. This applies to
 all important development agenda, such as achievement of a primary surplus of 5.5 percent of
 GNP, moving forward on privatization, and protecting social sector spending and bolstering
 safety nets.

It is necessary to fully recognize, as the CAS Progress Report indicates, that costly debt
restructuring, run-away inflation, and a social crisis would occur without implementation of this
reform program. We strongly expect and encourage that the authorities maintain a strong
commitment and consensus regarding implementation of the reforms.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
