Report No. PID10510
Project Name                     Turkey-Programmatic Financial and Public...
Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan amount     US$1.1 billion (US$700
million on standard IBRD
terms and US$400 million on special IBRD terms)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Private and Financial Sector Development
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       TRPE70561
Borrower                         Government of Turkey
Implementing Agency              Undersecretariat of Treasury
Ankara, Turkey
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           June 25, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        N/A
Appraisal Date                   May, 2001
Projected Board Date             July, 2001
Country and Sector Background
1.      In late February 2001, Turkey experienced a major currency crisis which
forced the Government to abandon the exchange rate based disinflation program
and float the Lira. The immediate cause of the crisis is attributable to
weaknesses in the financial sector, but its deeper roots lie in the structure
and management of the public sector which are at the core of Turkey's chronic
macroeconomic instability. The combination of an oversized public sector
living beyond its means and inadequate management of existing resources has
generated structural imbalances which have thwarted successive attempts at
disinflation. These imbalances and the constant search for financing have
become intertwined with financial sector weaknesses in a vicious circle. The
state banks were traditionally used to finance Government-mandated subsidized
lending to agriculture and SMEs. This recourse to quasi-fiscal financing
directly undermined financial sector stability. In parallel, the emergence
of a lucrative domestic market for high return Government bonds indirectly
contributed to financial sector instability as banks became dependent on
artificially inflated profits from investments in Government paper. Faced
with prohibitively high interest rates, the Government traditionally relied
on the inflation tax to keep the public debt under control. However, this
created a deeply ingrained pattern of inflationary expectations which has
blocked financial sector deepening and promoted steadily increasing currency
substitution.
2.      A disinflation program launched in late 1999, based on a nominal
exchange rate anchor was a bold and risky attempt to break the unsustainable
cycle of inflation, financial sector weakness, high interest rates and ever
increasing public indebtedness. The program included ambitious structural
reforms. A major reform of the public pension system was undertaken in
August 1999 and ambitious reforms were launched in the agriculture, energy



and telecommunications sectors. In the financial sector, a new commercial
bank law was passed in December 1999 that called for the creation of a new
independent bank regulatory agency, initiated a much needed overhaul of the
banking sector regulatory regime and enhanced the powers of the SDIF, the
agency responsible for bank failure resolution and administration of the
deposit insurance scheme. After some early success including a rapid decline
in interest rates, there was soon resistance to change from within the
governing coalition. As implementation progressed during the course of 2000,
resistance to particular aspects of the program became more pronounced. The
macroeconomic risks quickly built up and the program eventually collapsed at
its weakest point, the financial sector.
3.      The Government has prepared a new economic program that aims to
minimize the short-term impact of the crises while setting the stage for an
early resumption of disinflation and growth. The program targets a more
gradual disinflation path, but a more aggressive push on structural reforms.
By moving immediately to address the fundamental structural problems
underlying the crisis, with a strong focus on restructuring the banking
sector, the Government hopes to engineer a quick recovery closer to the
experience of Brazil and Korea, and avoid the prolonged recession that some
other crisis countries have experienced. The program is based on a three-
pronged strategy: (i) macroeconomic policies geared towards restoring
financial stability and resuming the disinflation process; (ii) structural
policies aimed at correcting the financial sector and public sector
weaknesses underlying the crisis and establishing a more sound basis for
disinflation and growth; and (iii) strong social policies including enhanced
social dialogue to achieve price and wage policies consistent with
macroeconomic stability, and increased emphasis on the protection of the most
vulnerable groups of society.
The Country's Financial Sector Reform Program
4.       In the aftermath of the November 2000 and February 2001 banking
crises, the Government has committed itself to a significant acceleration and
widening of the scope of the financial sector reform effort. Such
acceleration and widening of the scope of the financial sector reform program
is clearly necessary to restore banking system confidence and put the banking
system on a sustainable path towards competitiveness at the international
level and towards EU accession. As part of the widened scope of its
financial sector reform effort, and once the initial phase of immediate
urgent post-crises banking sector reform and restructuring activity is over,
the Government will also implement a comprehensive non-bank financial
institutions reform program, to complement the banking sector reform effort.
Currently, NBFI activity in Turkey is still limited, however, it is
anticipated that NBFI activity could grow significantly once the macro-
economic situation stabilizes. As banks are the key players in NBFI
activity, and as it is anticipated that in the aftermath of the banking
crisis stronger, larger banks with a universal mandate will appear, a
proactive approach on the part of the Government will be necessary to manage
the risks and vulnerabilities of such rapid NBFI growth.
5.      As the experience in other crisis countries (e.g., East Asia, Latin
America) has shown, banking crises resolution efforts will take time.
Therefore, the Government has structured its financial sector reform effort
in two phases, with the first phase focused primarily on implementation of
urgent banking system reform and restructuring efforts, and the second phase
- 2 -



focused more on the medium term broad based financial sector development
agenda. As such, this effort will stretch over multiple years.
6.       The initial phase of the Government's multi-year reform program will
focus on measures in the following four areas: (i) acceleration of the
overhaul of banking system prudential regulation; (ii) institutional
development of the new Bank Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA); (iii)
accelerated resolution of problem banks and failed banks already taken over
by the SDIF; and (iv) initiation of comprehensive financial and ownership
restructuring of the four major state-owned banks. The second phase of the
reform program will focus on: (i) finalizing the overhaul of the banking
system prudential regime; (ii) continued institutional development of the
BRSA and initiation of a comprehensive institutional development effort at
the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF); (iii) continuation/completion of
the problem bank/failed bank resolution effort; and (iv) further
restructuring and privatization of the state-owned banks. The follow-up
reform efforts in the banking area (especially the completion of the state
bank privatization effort) as well as the reform efforts in the NBFI segment
of the financial sector will be rolled out during 2002 and early 2003.
The Country's Public Sector Reform Program
7.      The Government's public sector reform program aims to underpin
sustained fiscal adjustment and create the conditions for transparent and
effective government. In combination with the financial sector reform
program, the public sector reform program addresses the underlying structural
factors that led to the crisis, thereby trying to ensure that these
conditions do not recur in the future. In particular, the program aims to
break the vicious circle of inadequate public sector management leading to
ever increasing public indebtedness that fuels financial sector weakness
through dependency on high return government securities which in turn
inflates the public debt burden. The reform aims to achieve permanent fiscal
adjustment; as well as radical improvements in public policy formulation, the
framework for resource mobilization and allocation, the system of public
oversight and accountability, and public sector governance. This is an
agenda for modernizing the Turkish state to meet the challenges of the new
century.
8.      The program focuses on three critical areas, each of which has a
medium-term dimension; (i) implement structural fiscal policies to ensure
permanent fiscal adjustment; (ii) launch a medium-term program of policy and
institutional reforms to improve the transparency and efficiency of public
expenditure management (PEM) including action to improve budget preparation
and execution, policy formulation, and the operational performance of public
agencies; and (iii) initiate broad based institutional reforms to improve the
quality of public sector governance.   In each of the these areas, the
Government has developed or is preparing a strategic approach to guide its
actions over the next three years.
?       In the area of structural fiscal policies, the approach will be based on
(i) a medium-term strategy for improving the tax system and (ii) a
comprehensive program to adjust staffing levels in the central government
and SEEs, both of which are to be prepared and adopted during the
remainder of 2001.
?       With regard to public expenditure management, the Government has prepared
a three year Strategic Framework for Public Expenditure Management Reform.
?       In the area of public sector governance, the Government is preparing a
- 3 -



national strategy for improving governance and combating corruption which
it intends to finalize by late September and adopt and publish before the
end of the year.
9.      The initial phase of the multi-year reform program will focus on
sustaining the fiscal adjustment and setting into motion the key change
processes for institutional reform including measures in the following four
areas: (i) implementation of structural fiscal polices to support the primary
surplus targets for 2001 and beyond; (ii) initiation of the PEM reform
process including preparation of key legislation to underpin improvements in
financial accountability (procurement) and public liability management; and
(iii) initiation of work on a national strategy to improve governance and
fight corruption. The second phase of reforms will focus on: (i) deepening
structural fiscal policies paving the way for permanent fiscal adjustment;
(ii) implementation of the first phase of the PEM reform on a pilot basis in
the 2002 budget and rationalization of the public investment program (PIP);
(iii) enactment of legislation on public procurement and public debt
management; and (iv) adoption and publication of the national anti-corruption
strategy. Subsequent reform efforts, including rollout of the PEM reform,
steps to adjust staffing in the government and state economic enterprises
(SEEs), and deeper institutional changes in the areas of tax administration,
financial accountability and public sector governance--including civil
service reform--are planned for late 2002 and beyond.
The Proposed Loan Program
10.     The proposed US$1.1 billion (US$700 million on standard IBRD terms and
US$400 million on special IBRD terms) Programmatic Financial and Public
Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL) is the first Loan in support of the
Government's multi-year financial and public sector reform program. It is
envisaged that the proposed PFPSAL will be followed by a second Programmatic
Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL II) of US$1.35 billion
(US$550 million on standard IBRD terms and US$800 million on SSAL terms),
tentatively planned for December 2001. The main objective of the proposed
PFPSAL is to address the Government's immediate financial and public sector
reform priorities in the aftermath of the November 2000 and February 2001
financial crises, while ensuring that social programs continue to be
adequately funded. Key priorities include, in the financial sector: (i)
overhaul of the regulatory framework for banking activity, (ii) institutional
development of the new Bank Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA), (iii)
problem bank/bank failure resolution, and (iv) state bank restructuring and
privatization; and in the public sector: (i) structural fiscal policies, (ii)
public expenditure management, (iii) financial accountability, (iv) public
liability management, and (v) public sector governance. The PFPSAL will
provide budgetary support to help the Government finance the costs arising
from the crisis while continuing to fund its critical social programs.
11.     The principal benefits of the Loan will be to: (i) restore confidence
in the banking system and in the Government's ability to implement and
sustain the required sizeable fiscal adjustments following the November 2000
and February 2001 crises; (ii) strengthen the foundation for an efficient and
sound banking system which can be competitive in quality and performance at
the international level; (iii) reduce the vulnerability of the banking system
and enhance its capacity to withstand external shocks and thereby reduce
systemic failure risk; (iv) position Turkey's banking sector for accession to
the European Union (EU) by starting the process of aligning the prudential
- 4 -



regime for the banking system with applicable EU banking sector directives;
(v) support urgent fiscal measures to respond to the crisis while ensuring
that social spending is protected; (vi) lay the foundation for sustained
fiscal adjustment; and (vii) modernize the public sector through actions to
improve management of public expenditure and liabilities, ensure financial
accountability in line with international standards, and raise the quality of
public sector governance.
12.     The risks associated with the Government's financial and public sector
reform program arise from macroeconomic factors, a potential loss of
political consensus and institutional weaknesses. The key macroeconomic risk
is that interest rates will remain higher than projected which would affect
the sustainability of the public debt and create the conditions for renewed
instability. Given the severity of the February 2001 crisis, Turkey will
remain vulnerable to both internal and external shocks over the medium term.
The commercialization and privatization of the state-owned banks will be a
major political and organizational challenge for the Government and will also
have significant fiscal and social implications. Another risk is that of
possible inability to raise sufficient resources to finance the restructuring
of the state banks and the resolution of the banks under the Savings Deposit
Insurance Fund (SDIF). Tight fiscal discipline and the confidence of
domestic and international investors in Turkish sovereign debt instruments
will be essential here. Finally, satisfactory and timely failure resolution
efforts by the SDIF and enforcement of capital restoration plans by the BRSA
are important; the risk that such efforts will fall short of what is needed
is related to the political pressure that may be put on these agencies for a
slowdown of regulatory enforcement action and general regulatory forbearance.
The public sector reform agenda is politically sensitive and may be
jeopardized by resistance of vested interest groups that would prefer to
maintain the status quo. Capacity constraints and crisis management efforts
at key Government agencies, such as the Ministry of Finance and
Undersecretariat of Treasury, may also slow down the pace of the envisaged
public sector reforms.
Contact Points:
Lalit Raina, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Tel No.:         (202) 458-2900
Fax No.:         (202) 522-0005
James Parks, ECSPE
The World Bank
Ugur Mumcu Caddesi No. 88
Ankara, Turkey
Tel No:   (90-312) 446-3824
Fax No.: (90-312) 446-2442
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending July 13, 2001.
- 5 -



