                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25277

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-46320; SCL-46330)

                                                  ON A


                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.1 BILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                TURKEY

      FOR A PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL AND PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                                11/28/2002




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 27, 2002)

                                  Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                                           TL 1 = US$ 0.00000064
                                          US$ 1 = TL 1,552,624

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASCU    Agriculture Sales Cooperatives Unions              MOF         Ministry of Finance
BRSA    Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency          NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institutions
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                        NPL         Non-Performing Loans
CBT     Central Bank of Turkey                             PEIR        Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum                        PEM         Public Expenditure Management
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment        PFMFC       Public Financial Management and Financial C
CMB     Capital Markets Board                              PFMP        Public Financial Management Project
COM     Council of Ministers                               PFPSAL      Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Ad
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report              PFSAL       Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment L
EBF     Extra-budgetary Funds                              PIP         Public Investment Program
ERL     Economic Reform Loan                               PPL         Public Procurement Law
ESW     Economic Sector Work                               PPSAL       Programmatic Public Sector Adjustment Loan
EU      European Union                                     PSR         Public Sector Reform
FSAL    Financial Sector Adjustment Loan                   QAG         Quality Assurance Group
FX      Foreign Exchange                                   SDIF        Savings Deposit Insurance Fund
GDP/GNP Gross Domestic Product/Gross National Product      SEE         State Economic Enterprise
GFS     Government Finance Statistics                      SPO         State Planning Organization
HPC     High Planning Council                              SSF         Social Solidarity Fund
LOI     Letter of Intent                                   TCA         Turkish Court of Accounts
IDP     Institutional Development Plan                     TIN         Taxpayer Identification Number
IMF     International Monetary Fund                        UNCITRAL United Nations Commission on International
LLP     Loan Loss Provisioning                             VAT         Value Added Tax




                                 Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
                      Country Manager/Director:     Ajay Chhibber
                        Sector Manager/Director:    Paul Siegelbaum, Cheryl Gray
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Lalit Raina, James Parks

                                           TURKEY
                  Programatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P070561                                                      Project Name: Programmatic Financial and Public
                                                                         Sector Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Lalit Raina                                                 TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: January 2, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Programmatic Financial and Public Sector                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-46320;
                            Adjustment Loan                                                            SCL-46330
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                                 Region: Europe and Central
                                                                                                       Asia Region
        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%), Banking
                            (46%), Capital markets (2%), General industry and
                            trade sector (2%),

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/04/2001                                        Effective: 07/05/2001              07/17/2001
   Appraisal:    05/21/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    07/12/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2001

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:           Ajay Chhibber                                       Ajay Chibber
Sector Manager:            Paul J. Siegelbaum - Cheryl Gray                    Paul Siegelbaum - Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:        Lalit Raina - James Parks                           Lalit Raina - James Parks
ICR Primary Author:        Gurhan Ozdora; Kamer
                           Karakurum Ozdemir
Gurhan Ozdora
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
          The main objective of the Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL)
was to address the Government's immediate financial and public sector reform priorities in the aftermath of
the November 2000 financial turmoil and February 2001 financial crisis, while ensuring that social
programs continued to be adequately funded. The rationale for supporting a combined package of financial
and public sector reforms through the PFPSAL program was to help Turkey break definitively with the
past vicious circle of inadequate fiscal management generating public deficits which in turn fueled inflation
and financial sector instability. By laying out a medium-term program of combined financial and public
sector reforms, the Government aims to bolster investor confidence by showing its determination to address
the roots of macroeconomic instability and crises in Turkey. The PFPSAL was the first in a series of
programmatic loans planned to be implemented over the 2001-2003 period in support of the Government's
comprehensive multi-year financial and public sector reform program aimed at restoring confidence in the
banking system and correcting the underlying structural problems in the public sector. The single tranche
PFPSAL of US$1.1 billion (of which US$400 million is on special structural adjustment loan (SSAL)
terms and US$700 million on standard IBRD terms) was followed by the three tranche PFPSAL II of
US$1.35 billion (of which US$800 million is on SSAL terms and US$550 million on standard IBRD
terms) approved by the Board on April 16, 2002. The PFPSAL II became effective in August 2002, and
the first US$450 million tranche was released, following fulfillment of the effectiveness condition regarding
submission to Parliament of legislation extending the coverage of the audits of the Turkish Court of
Accounts to the Presidency and Parliament, and allowing for external audit of TCA itself. This
Implementation Completion Report covers both actions completed under PFPSAL and actions supported
by PFPSAL II through mid-2002.

          The PFPSAL and PFPSAL II operations were designed to support a medium-term program of
second generation structural, policy and institutional reforms in the financial and public sectors. This
program is grounded in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report discussed by the Board in
July 2001. It is closely integrated with other elements of the CAS and is supported by extensive Economic
Sector Work (ESW) including analytical work on the key fiduciary aspects of public expenditure
management. The program is designed to help Turkey prevent future crises by tackling the deep roots of
financial instability in Turkey and achieve sustainable poverty reduction through macroeconomic stability
and growth. The medium-term strategy for financial and public sector reform supported by the PFPSAL
operations is targeted at helping the Government restore confidence by demonstrating how Turkey will
resolve the underlying structural weaknesses which led to the February crisis. The PFPSAL program is
part of a broader package of international assistance to support Turkey's strengthened program in response
to the crisis, including an increase in IMF commitments from less than US$4 billion under the original
Stand-by arrangement approved in December 1999 to over US$30 billion to date. The US$1.2 billion on
SSAL terms within the PFPSALs was an addition to the original FY01-03 envelope, authorized in the CAS
Progress Report as part of the Bank's broadening of support to Turkey in the crisis.

          In response to the February 2001 crisis, the Government committed to a significant acceleration
and widening of the scope of the financial sector reform effort already initiated as part of the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) to bring safety, soundness and productivity in the banking sector up to
EU and international standards. Such acceleration and widening of the scope of the financial sector reform
program was necessary to restore banking system confidence in light of the financial turmoil in November
2000 and subsequent macroeconomic/banking crisis in February 2001 and to respond to the changed sector
circumstances because of the severe forex/interest rate and credit shocks suffered thereby. The development
of the revised strategy was based on two post-crisis banking sector assessments and stress test results



                                                      - 2 -

carried out during December 2000 and March 2001. The Bank management, in close consultation with the
Turkish authorities decided to cancel the second tranche of the FSAL and to absorb the remaining FSAL
reform actions in the two new PFPSAL loans. As part of the widened scope of its financial sector reform
effort, and once the initial phase of urgent post-crisis banking reform and restructuring activity is over, the
Government also plans to implement a comprehensive non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) reform
program to complement the banking sector reform effort, and a study is being prepared by the Bank team in
collaboration with the Government for this purpose.

         The public sector reform (PSR) component of the PFPSAL operations aims at supporting
measures to achieve sustained fiscal adjustment and create the conditions for transparent and effective
government in line with EU and international norms. The Bank support for PSR through PFPSAL and
PFPSAL II is designed to underpin the first phase of the reform program, notably efforts to sustain fiscal
adjustment and start the change processes for core institutional reforms. The program builds on an initial
set of structural fiscal reforms supported by the Economic Reform Loan approved in May 2000. The
content of the public sector reform program draws on analysis presented in the 2000 Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) and the 2001 Public Expenditure and Institutional Report (PEIR). It also draws
heavily on the Bank's fiduciary sector work including the Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) and the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), both completed in 2001, as well as
the Fiscal Transparency Review prepared by the IMF. The PEIR and public sector component of the
CFAA were carried out as a joint exercise which contributed to an integrated approach.

         The Bank's programmatic assistance in support of financial and public sector reform in Turkey is
a graduated response conditioned on concrete actions taken by the Government. The programmatic
approach recognizes that the complex second generation policy and institutional reforms that Turkey is
undertaking must be sequenced over the medium term. It also takes into account the uncertainties inherent
in the crisis conditions that Turkey faced in 2001. It allows for a reasonable degree of adaptability of the
program to unfolding events on the ground. Under the revised CAS, PFPSAL II is expected to be followed
by two Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (PFSAL) of US$500 million each and a
Programmatic Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PPSAL) of US$375 million to support the continued
implementation of the financial and public sector reform program.

         The outcomes to date demonstrate that the goals and objectives of the PFPSAL program were
appropriate and consistent with enabling the government to continue with the reform process. Project
objectives were realistic and linked to monitorable performance indicators. Of particular note are the
concrete targets for social expenditure which are now serving as important references within the internal
dialogue between the Ministry of Finance, Treasury and responsible line agencies. The technical and
financial assistance from the Bank and other donors allowed the government to address the immediate crisis
while protecting critical social spending.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of PFPSAL and PFPSAL II have not been revised.

3.3 Original Components:
         The PFPSAL and PFPSAL II operations have been designed to assist the Government in the
following areas:
In the financial sector
         1. Overhaul of the legislative and regulatory framework for banking activity to bring it in line with
EU and Basle standards;
         2. Institutional development of the new Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA), and



                                                      - 3 -

the bank failure resolution entity, the Savings and Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF);
         3. Problem bank/bank failure resolution to undertake restructuring of the private sector banks and,
         4. State bank restructuring and privatization;
In the public sector
         5. Implementation of structural fiscal policies to underpin permanent fiscal adjustment;
         6. Design and implementation of reforms to modernize public expenditure management in line with
EU and international norms including budget reform, financial accountability and public liability
management; and
         7. Initiation of institutional reforms to improve public sector governance.

         The focus and scope of the operation on reform, restructuring and recapitalization of the banking
sector; and reform, adjustment and modernization of public sector management were appropriate given that
structural weaknesses in these areas were at the root of the 2001 crisis. The PFPSAL operations have
helped the government to enforce financial discipline on the banks and strengthen fiscal discipline in the
public sector. The PFPSAL operations also assisted the government to undertake fiscal adjustment and
manage its public debt burden, which increased greatly as a result of the crisis, while protecting social
expenditure.

3.4 Revised Components:
Loan components of PFPSAL and PFPSAL II have not been revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         The objectives of the PFPSAL program were designed to be fully consistent with government
priorities. Government counterparts were involved in all phases of project preparation and design.
Knowledge gained from ESW--notably the CEM (2000), PEIR (2001), fiduciary work under the CPAR
and CFAA (2001), and informal sector work on banking (1998-99) helped in the design of the PFPSAL
operation and the broader PFPSAL program. Although a quality at entry assessment for the first PFPSAL
operation was not carried out by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG), the quality of preparation is
judged to be satisfactory based on the fact that the project objectives were determined to be feasible during
implementation. The objectives of PFPSAL II are fully consistent with the original PFPSAL program
prepared together with the first PFPSAL operation. Quality at entry was rated satisfactory for PFPSAL II
by a QAG panel chaired by the Vice-President of the PREM network.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         The single tranche PFPSAL was designed as the first in a series of two programmatic adjustment
loans structured to support both financial and public sector reforms in response to the 2001 crisis. It was
followed by the three tranche PFPSAL II operation approved in April 2002. The rationale for a combined
approach to financial and public sector reform derived from the urgent need to address simultaneously the
close linkages tying chronic public sector deficits and financial sector vulnerabilities to macroeconomic
instability. The lack of transparency of quasi-fiscal spending, including state bank duty losses, allowed
part of the public deficit to be hidden from view which, when exposed by the crisis, contributed to the surge
in the public debt stock. The PFPSAL program has aimed to break the vicious circle of inadequate public
sector management in Turkey that led to ever increasing public indebtedness, thus fueling financial sector
dependency and speculation on high-return government securities, which in turn further increased the
public debt burden. By combining urgent, up-front measures in response to the crisis with initiation of
deeper structural reforms, the PFPSAL program is geared to rebuild investor confidence by demonstrating
that Turkey is finally addressing the core institutional weaknesses in the financial and public sectors that
have contributed to macroeconomic instability. The status of the macroeconomic framework and structural


                                                       - 4 -

reforms supported by PFPSAL and PFPSAL II is given in the sections below.

         Macroeconomic Framework. For the macroeconomic environment, conditions to be fulfilled prior
to Board presentation of PFPSAL included: (i) satisfactory macroeconomic framework consistent with the
core objectives for 2001, including positive Gross National Product (GNP) growth during the second
semester, inflation of 2 percent per month and nominal interest rates of 50-55 percent by the end of the
year, and a primary surplus for the consolidated public sector of 5.5 percent of GNP, and (ii) approval of a
satisfactory supplementary budget for 2001 consistent with the Government's macroeconomic objectives
which would also ensure satisfactory expenditure envelopes for health, education and social protection.
These conditions were met prior to Board presentation of PFPSAL. For PFPSAL II, corresponding
macroeconomic objectives were set for 2002 including an increase in the primary surplus to 6.5 percent of
GNP and a decrease in the inflation rate to 35 percent by the end of the year.

         The macroeconomic objectives supported by PFPSAL were established under the Government's
strengthened program announced in May 2001. The strengthened program was also supported by an
additional US$8 billion from the IMF. As of end-2001, the fiscal targets of the program were broadly met
including an overshooting of the primary surplus target. However, some of the macroeconomic outcomes
deviated significantly from program targets; the recession turned out to be deeper than expected with GNP
contracting by 9.4 percent and inflation reaching 68.5 percent by the end of the year. Nominal interest
rates remained substantially higher than program levels which contributed to a higher than expected
debt-to-GNP ratio of 93.3 percent. In September 2001, Turkey was hit by a new external shock as global
financial markets and trade were affected by the terrorist attacks in the United States. In February 2002,
the IMF approved a new US$16 billion Stand-by arrangement for Turkey covering 2002-04.
Macroeconomic performance improved considerably in the first half of 2002, with a slow down in inflation,
a drop in nominal interest rates combined with a relative stabilization of the exchange rate following the
sharp depreciation in 2001, and encouraging signs of increased economic activity. However, interest rates
increased once again from below 55 percent in April to above 70 percent by June, as political uncertainty
increased prior to the announcement of early elections of November 3rd. The upward movement in interest
rates was reversed immediately after the elections as the markets reacted favorably to the new single party
government. Interest rates were down to the 50-55 percent range by mid-November. GNP expanded by
8.8 percent in the second quarter (year-on-year) and inflation has remained low. The end-year targets of 4
percent growth (revised upward from 3 percent) and 35 percent inflation are well within sight. The IMF
program has remained on track. The 3rd IMF program review was completed in August 2002. Initial
discussions on the 4th program review were held in October and resumed in December. Macroeconomic
outcomes in 2002 have also remained on track on the basis of the quarterly indicators agreed under
PFPSAL II. With regard to the social expenditure targets for education, health, and social protection,
outcomes in 2001 were in line with the targets set under PFPSAL including overall social spending of 15
percent of GNP. Under PFPSAL II, the Government has committed to maintaining, or even exceeding, this
target. As of October, preliminary data indicate that social spending is broadly on track, although there are
significant shortfalls in spending on direct income support to farmers and social assistance payments
throughthe social solidarity fund on which the Bank is following up with the Government.

         Financial Sector Reform. In the financial sector, PFPSAL objectives were: to accelerate banking
sector prudential regulation reform, especially concerning capital adequacy, foreign exchange exposure,
loan loss provisioning, connected lending and risk management, to strengthen the newly created BRSA
through a targeted institutional development effort, thereby strengthening banking supervision, enforcement
and corrective action programs, to step up SDIF interventions in additional insolvent private banks and
actions to resolve these banks rapidly, and accelerating the financial and operational restructuring of the
state banks, including resolution of the duty loss issue. Most of these objectives were realized or will be


                                                      - 5 -

realized through the ongoing PFPSAL II. Outcomes achieved through PFPSAL can be summarized as:
restoring confidence and reducing the vulnerability of the banking system; and strengthening the foundation
for an efficient and sound banking system through reform in the prudential regulations. Further actions are
necessary, however, and are in the pipeline; these involve institutional development and strengthening of the
BRSA/SDIF, bankruptcy reform, deposit insurance reform and the privatization of the state banks.

         Public Sector Reform. In the public sector, PFPSAL objectives were: (i) to support urgent fiscal
measures to respond to the crisis while ensuring that social spending is protected, (ii) to lay the foundation
for permanent fiscal adjustment to ensure a sustainable path for the public sector debt and prevent a
recurrence of the conditions which led to the 2001 crisis, (iii) to modernize the public sector through
improving transparency and management of public expenditure and liabilities, (iv) to ensure financial
accountability in line with international standards, and (v) to raise the quality of public sector governance.
The actions in support of these objectives to be taken before Board presentation of PFPSAL were all
achieved. Further progress towards the objectives is being made under the ongoing PFPSAL II.


4.2 Outputs by components:
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM

         The approach to financial sector reform adopted in PFPSAL was essentially similar to the one
incorporated in the FSAL. The first tranche of FSAL was disbursed in December 2000. But within a few
months of project effectiveness, a severe financial crisis in February 2001 required the Bank and the
Government to reconsider their strategy. The second tranche of FSAL was cancelled and the remaining
actions envisaged for FSAL's second tranche were subsequently implemented as Board presentation
conditions for the PFPSAL in July 2001 and PFPSAL II in April 2002, and the remaining actions are
planned to be carried out as second and third tranche conditions for PFPSAL II. Continuity of the strategic
reform framework, as envisaged during the preparation of FSAL and still valid during the preparation of
the PFPSALs, was maintained with necessary tactical changes based on the circumstances at the time. The
banking reform had four strategic pillars (each loan had tactical implementation components of the
strategic objectives): (i) strengthening the legislative and prudential regulatory framework to international
standards; (ii) strengthening banking supervision and failure resolution institutional capacity (BRSA and
SDIF); (iii) reform/restructuring/resolution of private banks to increase systemic safety and soundness; and
(iv) restructuring and privatization of the state owned banks.

         Under the FSAL first tranche, a new banking law was enacted by parliament (in place of a
constitutionally obsolete decree law). The law created a new independent and dedicated banking regulation
and supervision entity (BRSA), strengthened the banking supervisor's rights and obligations for
undertaking corrective actions on problem banks in order to ensure banking system safety and soundness,
and strengthened the legal authority and capacity for BRSA and the failure resolution entity SDIF (Savings
and Deposit Insurance Fund) to intervene in problem banks. In conjunction with FSAL, the government
also upgraded all key prudential regulations like capital adequacy, foreign exchange exposure, loan loss
provisioning and connected lending regulations to international standards, initiated corrective action
through intervention in a number of private banks, including closure, sale or merger for such banks; and
enacted enabling legislation for the restructuring and privatization of the state owned banks Vakif, Emlak,
Halk and Ziraat.

         Once FSAL second tranche was closed and replaced by PFPSAL and PFPSAL II, the PFPSAL: (i)
completed the deepening and broadening of the regulatory framework to bring consolidated regulation, and
a risk management approach; (ii) initiated formal institutional development program for BRSA and SDIF;


                                                       - 6 -

(iii) undertook broad intervention and cleaning up of mismanaged and insolvent private banks; and (iv)
amended the legislation facilitating the privatization of Vakif bank, liquidated the third largest state owned
bank, Emlak; and completed the financial restructuring (including duty losses)of the two largest state
owned banks, Halk and Ziraat.

         Under the ongoing PFPSAL II, the key reforms being undertaken or planned include: (i) clarifying
the collateral valuation regime for loan loss provisions, strengthening enforcement of the regulatory regime
with the help of corrective action programs, and bringing repo transactions on balance sheet; (ii)
implementing the institutional strengthening programs of BRSA and SDIF; (iii) completing the
restructuring of the private banking sector including closures, mergers or recapitalizations as necessary;
(iv) implementing the asset resolution strategy for the stock of assets with the SDIF; (iv) strengthening and
improving the effectiveness of the bankruptcy framework including a corporate workout framework; and
(v) completing the operational restructuring of the two state owned banks, Halk and Ziraat, and the full
privatization of Vakif bank.

         All the actions planned under PFPSAL were completed before loan signing as a single tranche
operation and the details are presented below. The details of the progress to date of actions under PFPSAL
II are also outlined below with the objective of presenting the updated status of the sector.

A.       Regulatory Framework for Banking:

·        To comply with the required conditions for the PFPSAL Board presentation in July 2001, the
Parliament had enacted a banking law amendment in May 2001 allowing full tax deductibility of all
specific loan loss provisions required by the BRSA effective for the year beginning January 1, 2001. In
June 2001, the BRSA issued new LLP regulations and lifted the exemption of Ziraat's agricultural support
loans from specific provisioning. Also in June 2001, through a separate regulation by the BRSA,
application of connected exposure limits on a consolidated basis was allowed while retaining the existing
phase-in period in the law for connected exposures to reach EU limits. With a regulation published on
January 31, 2002, a transition period until January 1, 2004 has been granted to banks for the monthly
reporting of consolidated capital adequacy and FX exposure ratios. This regulation while introducing
separate exposure limits for equity investments in non-financial subsidiaries in line with the applicable EU
Directive, also defined connected exposure based on EU directives and applied this definition and
maximum exposure limits on a solo and consolidated basis, with a phase-in period satisfactory to the Bank.
In June 2001, a regulation amended the solo and consolidated capital adequacy and FX exposure rules,
increasing the reporting frequency from quarterly to monthly. A further amendment to the solo and
consolidated capital adequacy regulations was made in February 2002 through a regulation imposing a
Basel-compliant market risk based capital charge on banks effective January 1, 2002 on a solo basis, and
July 1, 2002 on a consolidated basis. This was followed by a new capital adequacy regulation introduced
in January 31, 2002 in which the principles and procedures about inclusion of the structural positions in the
calculation of capital adequacy ratio was incorporated. The principles on the structural position were
regulated in detail and announced by a circular following the decision of the Board dated February 5, 2002.
IAS and EU Directives related to accounting were adopted for the annual accounts and consolidated
accounts of banks and other financial institutions in June 2002. With this regulation, banks shall ensure
that their balance sheets, income statements and other financial statements along with their disclosures,
comply with the IAS.

·        Due to the coverage period of the ICR which extends up to July 2002, actions which were part of
the PFPSAL II Board and second tranche conditions and which were completed by July 2002 are also




                                                      - 7 -

reported in this ICR. Before the PFPSAL II board presentation: (i) in January 2002, the BRSA issued a
supplementary memorandum to the LLP rule to clarify fair value accounting rules for collateral; (ii) an
amendment to the provisional article 2 (f) in the Banking Law 4389 was made in January 2002, eliminating
the four year phase-in period for pre-June 1999 loans; (iii) an amendment to the LLP rule was made on
June 2002, to facilitate the restructuring of corporate loans and ensure that restructured loans are only
upgraded to a higher classification category once renewed debt service track record and creditworthiness
are firmly established; and (iv) the BRSA issued a new regulation on December 2001 with applicability as
of February 1, 2002, requiring banks to bring repos on balance sheet as collateralized finance transactions.
By the end of May 2002, the BRSA had completed a three-stage audit process and corrective actions
which were undertaken during January­August 2002 period. This process, which was undertaken to
determine which banks were out of compliance with the limits on capital adequacy, new connected lending
and non-financial equity exposure, has revealed several banks with excess connected exposures and the
management and control of one of these banks was transferred to the SDIF and the others took corrective
action to comply with the regulatory limits. There were three banks with lower than required capital
adequacy ratios; one of these banks was intervened by SDIF, the other bank has been instructed by the
BRSA to undertake corrective action and the third bank has received Tier-II support from SDIF. Through
this action, a PFPSAL Board condition which was later transformed into a second tranche core condition
for the PFPSAL II has also been met.

B. Institutional Development of the BRSA/SDIF:

·        Development of BRSA and SDIF as independent regulatory bodies is an essential element of the
financial sector reform and actions in this regard are part of the PFPSAL and PFPSAL II conditions. As
part of the Board conditions for the PFPSAL, the BRSA Board adopted a time-bound institutional
development plan during its June 2001 meeting, however implementation progress has been slower than
planned, as most of senior management's attention and scarce human resources have been devoted to
resolving problem banks and taking actions to stabilize the banking system in the aftermath of the crises.
For the purpose of satisfactory implementation of the Institutional Development Plan (IDP), the BRSA
Chairman has appointed a Committee for reviewing and increasing the efficiency of the BRSA
Organization. The Committee has recently completed the reorganization study and produced a report
addressing the required changes under the title of "Organizational Build-Up at the BRSA: Towards
Prudential Supervision". In view of the report, the Banking Regulation and Supervision Board approved
the regulation proposal concerning required organizational changes on September 25, 2002 and the new
BRSA organization became effective on the same date. However, following the re-capitalization exercise,
the management has turned its focus back to the institutional development priorities and rapid progress is
anticipated in the areas of a common database, development of a comprehensive monitoring system,
corrective action programs, risk based supervision, and consolidated supervision.

·        The SDIF Board accepted a strategic plan for the institutional development of SDIF on August 5,
2002. Based on this strategic plan, three project groups were established as of September 1, 2002. The
SDIF Board accepted an asset resolution strategy, which is under implementation and the institutional
structuring for asset resolution is completed. A number of fairly critical decisions currently under
discussion are related to:
(i)      the geographical location of SDIF in Istanbul (where the banks are) or in Ankara (where the
government is);
(ii)     the deposit insurance regime and financial resources of SDIF in future including removal of the
existing blanket guarantee.
These are expected to be resolved over the next several months as part of the reform implementation



                                                     - 8 -

program. Consequently, the second tranche condition on the adoption by the SDIF Board of an institutional
development plan has been met.

C.        Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution:

·         Before the Board presentation for the PFPSAL, BRSA had to identify all capital deficient banks in
the system, and to agree on capital restoration plans with these banks. This process was completed in July
2001. As part of the agreed action plan in the PFPSAL, the Treasury in cooperation with the CBT injected
into the SDIF banks by end May 2001 enough marketable government securities (in TL and FX) carrying
quarterly floating rate market-based coupon interest to ensure that the banks had sufficient liquidity to
operate and honor any deposit withdrawals, and to recapitalize the SDIF banks up to 0 percent capital
adequacy. As part of this operation, cash (in lieu of the government securities above) was also injected to
retire at least two thirds of all on and off balance sheet overnight high cost liability funding of the SDIF
banks outstanding on March 16, 2001 (excluding liabilities to the CBT). The CBT by end May 2001 was
able to mop up excess liquidity through open market operations within an overall ceiling on the stock of
repurchase agreements of the SDIF and state-owned banks with the CBT, amounting to TL 7 quadrillion.

·         In order to start the collection process, the SDIF decided to transfer problem loan files from the
SDIF Banks to the SDIF and transfer of other files began before the Board presentation. As part of the
problem bank resolution process undertaken by the SDIF, Esbank and Interbank were merged into Etibank
in June 2001. Egebank, Yurtbank, Yasarbank, Bank Kapital and Ulusalbank were merged into Sümerbank
and later on August 8, 2001, Sümerbank was sold to Oyakbank. The banking and deposit taking licenses
of Etibank and Kentbank were revoked as of December 28, 2001 and the liquidation process of these banks
was initiated. In the general assembly meetings of these two banks, held on April 4, 2002 within the
framework of the decisions of the BRSA and of the SDIF, the liquidation processes was cancelled and these
banks were merged under Bayindirbank. Following up on the problem bank resolution, the SDIF sold
Sitebank to Novabank; the share transfer agreement with Novabank was signed on December 20, 2001 and
the transfer of shares was completed on January 25, 2002. Bank Ekspres was sold to the Tekfen Holding,
and the transfer of shares was completed on June 30, 2001. Demirbank was sold to HSBC, and the
transfer of shares was completed on October 30, 2001. EGS bank was merged into Bayindirbank as of
January 18, 2002. The remaining performing loans of all the intervened banks except Pamukbank have
been transferred to Bayindirbank which is under the control of the SDIF.

Currently there are two banks under the SDIF management: Pamukbank, for which the legal process is
continuing and the Bayindirbank which is used as a bridge bank assigned with the task of managing the
assets and mainly the remaining performing loans of the banks intervened by the SDIF. The consolidation
process of the SDIF banks is rapidly progressing. The number of branches, excluding Pamukbank, declined
from 1,619 to 59 as of November 5, 2002 and is expected to decline to 11 by year-end. The number of
staff (excluding Pamukbank) declined from 32,569 to 1,268 by November 5, 2002 and is expected to
decline to 250 by year-end. With these actions, Board and second tranche core PFPSAL II conditions have
therefore been met.

·         Under the SDIF resolution program agreed with the Bank and the IMF, all SDIF banks intervened
before November 2001 were to be sold, merged or closed by end 2001. To address this issue, during
December 2001, the SDIF auctioned off US$2.9 billion (US$2.6 billion in FX and US$0.3 billion in TL)
of SDIF bank liabilities and matching assets to private banks and transferred the residual assets and
liabilities to Ziraat and Halk banks (US$2.4 billion of FX liabilities and assets) and all remaining deposit
liabilities and non-deposit liabilities together with corresponding amounts of assets were transferred to



                                                        - 9 -

Toprakbank (intervened in late November 2001) and Bayindirbank. The SDIF also has transferred all
non-performing loans, real-estate assets and subsidiary companies of intervened banks to the SDIF
collection/asset sales department. A significant number of real-estate assets have been sold through public
auctions and similarly, most of the large value subsidiaries have also been sold. Packaging of bundles of
non-performing loans for sale to the market is being planned (first sale tranche was announced by the end
of October with a face value of US$ 250 million). Through these actions, the PFPSAL II Board condition
related to the resolution of the liabilities remaining with the SDIF and preparation of an asset resolution
strategy to deal with all the remaining non-financial assets, non-performing loans, and other investments in
subsidiaries of these banks, were completed. SDIF has since been carrying out satisfactory implementation
of the asset resolution strategy. Upon the decision of the Board, further implementation progress is being
made on the strategy for asset resolution. Resolution of Tarisbank was completed as of October 21, 2002
with the share transfer agreement regarding the transfer of the concerned Bank shares to Denizbank A.S.,
and the actual transfer of shares was completed on October 25, 2002. Furthermore, upon the decision of
the Banking Regulation and Supervision Board, as of September 30, 2002 Toprakbank A.S. was merged
under Bayindirbank A.S. and its license to perform banking activities and take deposits was revoked as of
the same date. Turk Ticaret's liquidation started in August 19, after being approved in the August 9
shareholders' meeting. With these actions, a second tranche PFPSAL II condition has also been met.

·         As part of the PFPSAL II Board conditions, by January 2002 the BRSA had taken necessary
regulatory and enforcement actions to launch the process of ensuring that all non-performing loans are
correctly and transparently stated through proper classification and provisioning procedures in the private
deposit taking banks' balance sheets in order to reflect the true capital position of the banking system. This
was followed by issuance of implementing regulations in February and March 2002, for the public support
scheme for re-capitalization of private deposit taking banks, thus realizing a PFPSAL II second tranche
condition.

·     Bankruptcy Reform. Under PFPSAL II, an Insolvency and Creditor rights ROSC was undertaken by
the Bank in close cooperation with the government. The recommendations of the ROSC were presented to
the government and a working group on the reform of Execution and Bankruptcy law is preparing
comprehensive amendments to the law to improve the effectiveness of the bankruptcy legislative and
institutional framework. The amendments are expected to incorporate an accelerated court approval
process for corporate workout arrangements. A draft of the proposed amendments has been prepared and
is being reviewed by related government institutions, and a final draft is expected to be ready for
submission to Parliament after the final review of internal committee in December 2002. Completion of
this comprehensive review of the Execution and Bankruptcy Law is a second tranche condition for
PFPSAL II.

D.        State Bank Restructuring and Privatization:

·         As part of the financial restructuring of the state banks, Treasury, in cooperation with CBT,
injected into Ziraat and Halk banks enough marketable government securities by end-May 2001, to: (i)
ensure that these banks had sufficient liquidity to operate and honor any deposit withdrawals; (ii) write off
all remaining duty loss claims and re-capitalize the two banks up to at least 8 percent capital adequacy; and
(iii) reissue all already existing government securities in the books of these two banks in uniformity with the
new set of securities as necessary. In addition to these, cash (in lieu of the government securities above)
was also injected to retire at least two thirds of all on and off balance sheet overnight high cost liability
funding of the two state banks outstanding as of March 16, 2001 (excluding liabilities to the CBT). The
CBT by end May 2001, was able to mop up excess liquidity through open market operations within an



                                                       - 10 -

overall ceiling on the stock of repurchase agreements of the SDIF and state-owned banks with the CBT of
TL 7 quadrillion as of end-May 2001. In addition to these, short term TL repos in Ziraat were eliminated
by end May 2002. As part of the operational restructuring of the state banks, an independent professional
governing board (Joint Board) for the two banks with the mandate to manage these banks in accordance
with commercial principles and all prudential guidelines was appointed in April 2001. The governing
board has initiated the operational restructuring of the two banks, including the closure of unprofitable
branches and the reduction of redundant staff.

The three State Banks (Ziraat, Emlak and Halkbank) had a total of 2478 branches as of April 2001, the
date the "Joint Governing Board" was appointed to office. In July 2001, Emlakbank was closed, its
branches, personnel, liabilities and part of its "good"assets were transferred to Ziraatbank and Halkbank,
its "bad" assets and non-banking activities were left with "Emlakbank in liquidation" and its land
development/construction activities were transferred to the Mass Housing Administration-TOKI. Of the
initial 2478 branches, 788 were closed by 30 June 2002, reducing the total number of branches to 1690
(1141 Ziraat, 549 Halk). Since end June, the number of branches has been reduced to 1133 at Ziraatbank
and to 452 at Halkbank. Thus, the total number of branches has decreased by 803, from 2478 in April
2001 to 1675 today. Between April 2001 and June 2002, staff in the public banks were reduced by 26,000,
followed by a reduction of 3,000 in July 2002. As a result of further changes between July and November
2002, the total number of staff in the remaining two public banks has been reduced to about 30,000
(20,000 Ziraat, 8,000 Halk) from the initial number of 60,000 staff in the three public banks (all numbers
rounded) in April 2001, resulting in a 50 % staff reduction in public banks. The PFPSAL II second
tranche core condition in this regard has therefore been met.

·        In preparation for privatization, this governing board was to appoint a restructuring advisor for
Ziraatbank and a restructuring and privatization advisor for Halk Bank. Although this has not been
realized yet, the Government in the Letter of Intent (LOI) dated July 30, committed to appoint a
privatization advisor for Halkbank by end-September 2002 and to prepare the bank for sale by first quarter
of 2003. As part of the PFPSAL II second tranche condition, a study on the future strategic direction of
Ziraat vis-a-vis agricultural finance in Turkey with the objective of future restructuring/privatization of
Ziraatbank has been launched, and is planned for completion by December 2002. Treasury and the
governing board for the public banks have agreed on the amount of interest and principal payments to be
made in cash during 2002 on government securities in the books of Ziraat and Halk banks. The
coordination between Treasury and the two banks for elimination of short term liabilities has worked well,
and satisfactory debt-service payments have been made to date by Treasury on the Ziraat/Halk government
bond portfolio. Through these actions, PFPSAL II Board and second tranche conditions have been met.

·        In order to prepare Vakifbank for privatization, the Parliament in June 2001 adopted amendments
to Vakifbank law (no:6219) to allow for simultaneous sale of A and B shares. This was followed by
Vakifbank management appointing a privatization advisor (Merrill Lynch) to advise on the Vakifbank
privatization strategy and the sale process, also a PFPSAL II Board condition. Following the due diligence
process by the advisor, seeking expressions of interest from prospective buyers was completed in early June
2001. The sale process could not be completed as none of the bidders submitted a final bid by June 28.
Operational restructuring to remove non-bank assets is needed to ensure successful sale of the bank. A
new tender date also needs to be set as soon as possible. Completion of the privatization of Vakifbank will
be a critical challenge for the government in meeting the third tranche conditions for PFPSAL II.




                                                     - 11 -

PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM

         The PSR component of PFPSAL was aimed at supporting the Government's program which
included measures to achieve sustained fiscal adjustment and create the conditions for transparent and
effective government. In particular, PFPSAL supported measures in three areas: (i) implementation of
urgent fiscal measures to underpin the primary surplus target for 2001; (ii) initiation of the public
expenditure management (PEM) reform process including preparation of key legislation to underpin
improvements in financial accountability and public liability management; and (iii) initiation of work on a
national strategy to improve governance and fight corruption. The follow-up PFPSAL II addresses core
public sector reform areas including: (a) deepening structural fiscal polices (both revenue and expenditure
measures) aimed at more permanent fiscal adjustment; (b) implementation of the first phase of the PEM
reform including a pilot program for introducing GFS budget classification and coding, rationalization of
the public investment program, and preparation of legislation to underpin modernization of budget
management; (c) enactment of legislation on public procurement and public debt management; and (d)
adoption and publication of the national anti-corruption strategy.

A.       Structural Fiscal Policies:

    Fiscal Program for 2001 and 2002:
·        The public sector primary surplus reached 5.9 percent of GNP in 2001, exceeding the program
target, while the improvement with respect to the previous year originated mostly from the non-central
government part of the public sector. A supplementary budget for 2001 under the strengthened program
was approved by the Parliament on June 15, 2001, and additional revenue and expenditure measures were
taken to augment the original fiscal package for 2001. Among these measures were: increases in the
petroleum consumption tax and VAT rates, and price adjustments by SEEs.

·        A fiscal package to underpin the fiscal targets was announced in early 2002 and nearly all of the
elements of this package have been implemented. The fiscal outcome as of end-June 2002 was broadly in
line with the program targets and the outcome through August will be evaluated as part of the 4th IMF
program review. Real increases in SEE prices, which had been delayed, were implemented to a great extent
in June-August. No agriculture credit subsidies were included in the 2002 budget and indirect agriculture
subsidies were reduced (although unplanned hazelnut support purchases were announced in September). In
order to reduce operating expenditures, the Government has issued a circular to close regional
administrations and shift certain departments to the provincial administrations, although information on the
status of implementation of this program has been difficult to obtain. The preliminary data for social
expenditure as of October 2002 show that the Government is broadly on track with respect to its end-year
overall target, although there are significant shortfalls in spending on direct income support to farmers and
social solidarity fund.

   Structural Revenue Measures:
·        Prior to PFPSAL Board presentation, a new tax regulation was enacted in June 2001 to expand the
use of Tax Identification Numbers (TIN) to owners of bank accounts, users of banking services and
participants in financial transactions. The new regulation was a key step in broadening the tax base in
Turkey.

·        In January 2002, the Government adopted a medium term tax strategy meeting a key benchmark



                                                      - 12 -

set under the PFPSAL. The strategy includes tax policy and tax administration components to address the
complexity and lack of transparency of Turkey's tax system. It is based on a review carried out jointly with
the World Bank. This strategy is a significant step towards improving the stability, transparency and
equity of the tax system. The aim is to minimize tax distortions, broaden the tax base and improve the
efficiency of tax administration, all leading towards a reduction in marginal tax rates. To this end, the
government's tax strategy lays out a series of coordinated actions over the course of the next three years to
address important issues regarding tax policy and tax administration. One of the major actions in the
strategy was the enactment of the Special Consumption Tax law in June 2002 which became effective in
August. Preparation of the functional reorganization of the General Directorate of Revenues is underway
but its implementation has been delayed temporarily due to the November elections. Significant additional
technical assistance is likely to be needed to ensure sustained implementation of the tax strategy as the
issues to be addressed become more complex, in particular those related to direct tax reform. The direct
tax reform package, originally scheduled for submission to Parliament in October 2002, was postponed
until after the November elections.

    Structural Expenditure Measures:
·        The Government has initiated a comprehensive public employment program as part of the longer
term process to modernize the public sector. In 2001, the number of civil servants was kept constant in the
central government and SEE employment (including Turk Telekom and enterprises in the portfolio of the
Privatization Administration) fell in line with the 15 percent replacement hiring rule. For 2002, the ceiling
on civil service employment was expanded to cover local governments and the replacement hiring rule for
SEEs was tightened to 10 percent. Preliminary first quarter results as monitored by the Treasury
Controllers indicate that overall compliance with the SEE replacement rule is on track although
performance may vary from enterprise to enterprise.

·        Redundancies in SEE employment have been identified by the Government as 45,800 and over
20,000 of these redundant positions were eliminated, essentially through voluntary retirement, between
end-January and end-October 2002. In support of the redundancy program, the Bank carried out a desk
study on SEE overemployment in early 2002 which was shared with the authorities. The retrenchment in
SEEs promotes both improving the overall balances of SEEs and reducing the crowding out of private
sector investment and job creation.

·        In an effort to better monitor public sector employment, the Ministry of Interior issued a circular in
February 2002 to all local governments for gathering their employment data. First quarter employment
figures for local governments were provided to the Bank by the Government as well as the benchmark
end-2001 figures thereby meeting conditions for second and third tranche release of PFPSAL II.

B.       Public Expenditure Management:

        The multi-year strategy for Public Expenditure Management (PEM) reform prepared by the
Government was based on the recommendations of the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review carried
out jointly with the Bank. The content of the PEM reform was further refined and publicized through the
International Conference on Effective Government, co-sponsored by the Government and the Bank in
December 2001. To coordinate the implementation of the PEM reform, the Government has established a
high-level Steering Committee including senior representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Treasury,
State Planning Office and Turkish Court of Accounts as well as selected line ministries and agencies as
needed. Further, the Government has formed a Ministerial Committee in May 2002 to oversee the overall
public sector reform including the PEM reform and anti-corruption strategy. However, these coordinating



                                                      - 13 -

structures do not yet function effectively. As a result, while reform measures under the responsibility of
one or another agency have been moving forward, those elements of the program which require
cross-agency cooperation have progressed more slowly.

         The PEM reforms supported by PFPSAL I and II seek to establish a transparent and accurate
budget system that provides comprehensive coverage of general government finance and expenditure and
the appropriate budget legislation to define roles and accountability. Under PFPSAL II, budget
classification and accounts are being improved, the public investment program has been rationalized, new
procurement and debt management laws have been approved, and a modern public finance management
and financial control law (PFMFC) is to be prepared and legislated to enable gradual development of a
performance focus in government. A draft PFMFC law was submitted to the Parliament in August.

         The agreed actions under PFPSAL and PFPSAL II addressed three core PEM areas: budget
reform, financial accountability and public liability management. The main achievements in these areas are
summarized below.

         Budget Reform:
         Actions taken in this area aim to reform the processes of budget preparation and execution in
Turkey. Progress is as follows:

·        In addition to the 46 budgetary funds and 6 extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) that had been closed as
of March 2001, exceeding the targets under the Economic Reform Loan, the Parliament adopted legislation
in June 2001 to close 15 more budgetary funds and two EBFs. As a result, all budgetary funds, with the
exception of the Support Price Stabilization Fund linked to the reform of the agricultural sales cooperative
unions (ASCUs) under the Agriculture Reform Implementation Project with the World Bank, and all but
five EBFs (Social Solidarity Fund, Defense Fund, Promotion and Publicity Fund, Saving Deposit and
Insurance Fund and the Privatization Fund) were eliminated in the 2002 budget. The Government also
committed not to create any new budgetary or extra-budgetary funds. The presentation of the 2002 budget
to the Parliament was supplemented with the submission of the accounts and financial outlook for the
contingent liabilities of the Treasury, the remaining EBFs, the social security institutions, autonomous
agencies, local authorities and SEEs. The special accounts/special appropriations mechanism which has
remained after closure of the funds has perpetuated the earmarking of significant amounts of revenue. The
Bank is following up closely with the authorities on measures to terminate the usage of this mechanism as
soon as possible.

·        The number of revolving funds, which are used by local institutions to supplement budget
allocations, was reduced from over 2,600 to 1,981 by late 2001. An additional 548 revolving funds were
closed by end-March 2002.

·        The Government completed preparation of a new budget classification for consolidated budget
agencies in line with the GFS standards in June 2001. The new GFS classification is being implemented on
a pilot basis in the 2002 budget--six pilot agencies are participating in the program. The MOF has issued
a circular to make the new classification system operational along with the old classification system in
2003 for all consolidated budget agencies. The full introduction of the new system has now been delayed
until 2004.

·        The Government has taken important steps to improve the credibility of the budget preparation
process and rationalize the public investment program (PIP). The need to rationalize the PIP had arisen



                                                     - 14 -

from the extremely high average completion times and the existence of inactive projects in the investment
portfolio which received "trace allocations". As a Board condition for PFPSAL, a High Planning Council
decision was issued in June 2001 to accompany the Prime Minister's Budget Call. The decision: (i)
provided a macro-fiscal framework for 2002 budget preparation including overall levels for the recurrent
and investment budgets, (ii) established indicative ceiling for both the recurrent and investment budgets for
ministries and line agencies based on an indexation formula applied to the actual budget allocations that
each ministry and line agency received in 2001, and (iii) called for a rationalization of the PIP in the 2002
budget with the objective of reducing expected average time of completion of the overall PIP by 20 percent
in 2002 along with limits on the introduction of new multi-year investment projects except for emergency
projects. After preparation of a public investment review jointly with the Bank in October 2001, SPO
published the PIP for 2002 in January 2002. The average completion time was cut by 32 percent, from
12.5 years to 8.5 years, thereby meeting a key benchmark for PFPSAL II Board presentation. The action
plan, which was prepared by SPO for further rationalization of the PIP in 2003-04, was adopted by the
Government in October 2002.

·        As part of the efforts to build capacity for policy formulation, SPO has prepared draft guidelines
for strategic planning by key ministries and departments including costing policies. The Bank is engaged in
supporting finalization of the strategic planning guidelines by SPO and their phased integration into the
improved budget preparation process.

·        The government is carrying out a related pilot program to improve operational performance under
the responsibility of MOF. Six pilot agencies successfully completed, in the context of their selected
operations, an exercise in strategic planning which facilitated a clear statement of objectives, proposed
performance goals and a request for budget appropriations consistent with those goals. Implementation of
the pilot will continue through the remainder of 2002 and into 2003.

C.       Financial Accountability:

         Although Turkey's system of public financial accountability possesses some of the basic elements,
the system has significant problems and lacks coherence. The following actions are being implemented
under the PFPSAL program to address these problems and modernize public financial accountability in
Turkey in line with EU norms and international best practice.

·        A new, internet based, automated accounting system ("say2000i") has centralized the MOF's
accounting database and contains data on all individual transactions across all consolidated budget
agencies. The MOF has completed the installation and commissioning of the say2000i in the
approximately 1,500 sites of the General Directorate of Public Accounting across Turkey. The say2000i
system went on-line on January 2002 for the consolidated budget agencies, meeting a key benchmark for
PFPSAL II Board presentation.

·        The Ministry of Finance was given, by the 2002 budget law, the authority to issue accounting
standards for all general government agencies in line with GFS. Accounting standards on the modified
accrual basis, manual and chart of accounts consistent with GFS have been drafted and were issued to the
three agencies participating in the joint pilot program on January 23, 2002 (PFPSAL II). The draft
accounting standards regulation and statutory chart of accounts have been prepared and are under review
by the Bank prior to their publication as a condition for third tranche release of PFPSAL II. The regulation
will establish framework accounting standards and chart of accounts which will subsequently be elaborated
over time. To support this effort, the Bank has proposed to the Government to establish a Government



                                                      - 15 -

Accounting Standards Board in line with evolving international practice.

·        Turkey has made good progress in upgrading its public procurement legislation in line with
international standards under the PFPSAL program. The new Public Procurement law which meets
UNCITRAL standards was enacted on January 22, 2002 meeting a key benchmark for PFPSAL II. The
new law was prepared in close coordination with World Bank and EU experts, and is a significant advance
towards Turkey's compliance with EU requirements. Although the initial thresholds above which foreign
bidders cannot be restricted were set at high levels, amendments to the law satisfactory to the Bank were
enacted in June 2002. In accordance with the new law, the Public Procurement Agency was established to
oversee public procurement and ensure enforcement of the new procurement standards (thereby meeting a
third tranche condition for PFPSAL II). The Bank is now supporting implementation of the procurement
reform under an IDF grant to the new Public Procurement Agency.

·        An audit task force was established in June 2001 to develop an audit reform program with the
following objectives: (i) to develop a plan of action, including necessary legal amendments to expand the
scope of Turkish Court of Accounts (TCA) audits, and (ii) to prepare a new law on internal financial
control and audit in line with international standards. Subsequently, the Ministry of Finance prepared a
draft law on Public Financial Management and Financial Control (PFMFC) that will replace the existing
Public Accounting law. As was the case with the public procurement law, the Bank closely coordinated its
advice on the draft PFMFC law with the EU, and coordinated closely with the IMF as well. The draft law
includes a provision to extend the coverage of TCA to the Presidency and the Parliament as well as a
provision for the external audit of TCA itself. The draft law was submitted to the Parliament in August
2002 (thereby meeting the effectiveness condition of PFPSAL II). While the PFMFC law draft was
reviewed by the audit committee, a number of outstanding issues remain to be resolved among the various
ministries and agencies. These issues will have to be resolved during Parliamentary review of the law. The
difficulties in reaching internal consensus within the government agencies on the PFMFC law is an
indication of the broader coordination problems affecting the public sector reform program. In parallel,
TCA has prepared a draft plan of action for the expansion of the scope of TCA audits to all agencies of the
general government. However, this plan will require substantial further improvement before it can be
adopted by the Government. In particular, TCA will need to (i) formulate a package of credible internal
reforms in order to develop the capacities of a modern supreme audit institution, and (ii) reach a consensus
with the other public audit institutions in Turkey on the process and timetable for implementing the action
plan.

D.       Public Liability Management:

         The role of the build-up of quasi-fiscal and contingent liabilities in the state banks in triggering the
crisis in 2001 highlights the importance of strengthening the public liability management in Turkey.
Efforts to improve public liability management under the PEM reform strategy focus on strengthening debt
management and containing the spread of contingent liabilities.

·        As a first step to improve public liability management under the PFPSAL program, the
Government adopted a decree in April 2001, followed by related legislation in June 2001, to eliminate all
existing legal provisions authorizing creation of duty losses (i.e., unfunded mandates resulting in
quasi-fiscal losses) in the state banks.

·        A significant further step was taken by the Government to strengthen the institutional framework
for public debt management and address the structural sources of contingent liabilities through enactment



                                                     - 16 -

of the new Public Finance and Debt Management law in April 2002. Submission of the draft law to the
Parliament in June 2001 was a PFPSAL Board condition. The new law confirmed the Treasury as the
single borrowing authority for the central government and initiated development of a comprehensive fiscal
risk management framework. Supporting secondary legislation was adopted for the issuance of Treasury
guarantees and for public sector borrowing without Treasury guarantees as a condition of second tranche
release of PFPSAL II. Based on the new public debt law, the Treasury has issued a communique to
establish a new office for public debt and risk management (the "middle office"). The responsibilities and
structure of the new middle office were discussed during a workshop held in May 2002, jointly with the
Treasury and the World Bank. Technical assistance to the new middle office is now being provided under
the Bank's PFMP project.

E.       Public Sector Governance:

         Actions to improve public sector governance aim to reduce political influence over economic
management and upgrade the quality and effectiveness of Turkey's public services.

·        The Government initiated preparation of a national strategy to improve governance and combat
corruption in 2001 as a Board condition for PFPSAL. The strategy was prepared by a steering committee
consisting of the representatives of the Treasury, the Prime Minister's Inspection Board, the Financial
Crimes Investigation Board of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior.
An International Conference on Good Governance and Combating Corruption held in September 2001,
co-sponsored by the Government and the World Bank, provided input on international experience and best
practice to help shape the strategy. The national strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers in early
2002 and subsequently published on Treasury's website (fulfilling a Board condition for PFPSAL II). A
decree establishing a new Steering Committee for the implementation of national strategy was published in
June 2002. However, the committee has yet to become operational and further implementation progress
may well be delayed until after the elections.

·        The medium-term agenda for improving public governance necessarily encompasses civil service
reform which is vital to raising the quality of public services while aggregate government expenditure
adjusts in line with medium-term resource constraints. In February 2002, the Government established a
Ministerial Committee to oversee the preparation of a civil service reform strategy and carry out a
functional review of the government (meeting another Board condition for PFPSAL II). However, this
committee has not been operational and the initiation of the functional review process has been delayed.
The Bank is actively following up on this issue with the Government.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Most of the key institutional objectives of PFPSAL have been achieved as detailed in the following
paragraphs. An important shortcoming is that the coordination structures for the public sector reform
program have not functioned as effectively as expected and therefore coordination of cross-cutting elements
of the public sector reform program has remained difficult. The limited time horizon of the single-tranche
PFPSAL and the medium-term nature of the institutional reform objectives under the program provide the



                                                     - 17 -

basis for the modest institutional development impact rating in this ICR. While the institutional
development agenda of the program is broadly on track, more time will be needed to complete this agenda
and evaluate its outcome fully.

·        The comprehensive institutional development plan approved by the BRSA is under
implementation. This comprehensive plan prepared by the BRSA aims at: strengthening the human
resource functions, operational policies and procedures of BRSA, and increasing the efficiency of BRSA's
monitoring and early warning systems. The plan also is aimed at increasing the integrity of BRSA's
financial databases and efficiency of coordination between the various on site, off site and enforcement
departments through a team based approach.

·        The new Joint Board of Directors set up for both the state owned banks, Ziraat and Halk, has
effectively strengthened the professional skills, decision making autonomy and governance on a prudent
commercial basis, thereby strengthening the institutional structure of the state banks. The Joint Board has
also taken fundamental steps towards operational restructuring of the state banks as a preliminary step
towards their privatization as envisaged in the PFPSAL loans.

·        The new Public Procurement Agency is functional and fully concentrated on the necessary
preparations for the successful implementation of the new procurement law, which will be effective on Jan
1, 2003. The Agency has a fully autonomous status and is managed by a governing board appointed by the
Council of Ministers. The Bank is providing technical assistance to the Public Procurement Agency under
an IDF grant which, inter alia, is financing consultants to assist with the preparation of the secondary
legislation required to implement the new public procurement law. Assistance under the IDF grant is being
coordinated with technical assistance to the Agency from the EU.

·        A middle office for public debt and risk management is being established in the Treasury, together
with a high level debt committee responsible for overall debt management policy under the new Public Debt
law. The middle office will have a central role in managing fiscal and financial risks facing the
Government, including those arising from contingent liabilities linked to project guarantees. The Bank is
providing technical assistance to the middle office under the PFMP project to carry out a comprehensive
fiscal risk analysis of the current Treasury portfolio, and to establish procedures for evaluating fiscal and
financial risks.

·        The Public Financial Management and Financial Control law currently before Parliament will set
the legal foundation for broad-based institutional reforms to modernize Turkey's system of public
expenditure management. Among other things, the PFMFC law will complete the consolidation of the
general government budget, establish a structure for decentralizing financial control to spending agencies in
line with EU standards, and give MOF the authority to set public accounting standards across all of general
government. The law will also establish the legal basis for the consolidation of external audit authority
under the TCA.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The September 11 events came as an adverse shock to the economy causing interest rates to remain above
program levels which contributed to the delay of the economic recovery and the increase in the public debt
to GNP ratio to levels above the 2001 program baseline. The very high levels of public indebtedness,
based in large part on the historical accumulation of duty losses and contingent liabilities in the banking
sector, are contributing to the large risk premiums evident in the high real interest rates facing Turkey



                                                     - 18 -

today. To offset this factor, the Government is obliged to take exceptional measures to strengthen market
confidence.

The deterioration in the health of the Prime Minister in mid-2002 contributed to the sudden onset of
political uncertainty which led in turn to the decision to call for early elections. The early elections created
some unexpected implementation delays in the program supported by PFPSAL II. The Bank is following
up with the new government on measures to restore the pace of implementation of the program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors subject to the Government's control relative to PFPSAL implementation were managed
effectively and the loan was completed on schedule. Similarly, the factors subject to the Government's
control for PFPSAL II Board presentation and effectiveness were managed reasonably well given the crisis
conditions, and key benchmarks were met, albeit with some delay.

In the PSR area, the ministerial level committees and other high-level structures established to ensure
inter-agency coordination have not functioned effectively which is a risk factor for sustained
implementation of the program in the future. The prevailing institutional culture in the Turkish public
administration and (until November 2002) the coalition structure of the Government have been challenges
to effectively addressing this collective action problem.

Unplanned spending in the run up to the November elections (e.g., new hazelnut support purchases and ad
hoc increases in civil service salaries) is a factor which may affect the 2002 fiscal outturn.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
With regard to the PSR component of PFPSAL, all of the key implementing agencies (Treasury, MOF,
SPO and TCA) effectively managed the factors under their respective responsibilities. The preparation of
the national anti-corruption plan represented a notable example of successful inter-agency cooperation.
The delays, in particular, in meeting the effectiveness condition were in part due to unexpected delays in
Parliamentary appointment of a new TCA president. While several important second and third tranche
conditions for the PSR component of PFPSAL II have already been taken, the key implementing agencies
will need to develop more effective mechanisms for inter-agency cooperation in order to follow through
effectively on the PSR program in the future.

The actions supported for the Financial Sector Reform component by the Treasury, BRSA, SDIF and
Governing Board for Public Banks were implemented satisfactorily.

5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         The medium-term nature of the structural and institutional reforms under the PFPSAL program
require sustained commitment by Turkey over a considerable period of time. This commitment will have to
endure through periods of political uncertainty and electoral change. The structure of the Bank's support
for financial and public sector reform (based on a carefully sequenced series of programmatic operations
backed by complementary investment projects, technical assistance and ESW) takes into account the need
for sustained commitment at both the political and bureaucratic levels in Turkey. The one-tranche design
of PFPSAL provided rapid support to launch the program and help the Government overcome the
immediate impact of the 2001 crisis. The three-tranche design of PFPSAL II provides continued close


                                                      - 19 -

support for the program in a context of macroeconomic vulnerabilities and clear linkages of Bank
disbursements to concrete implementation. By protecting critical social spending, the PFPSAL program
was designed to help ensure that the fiscal adjustment does not undermine public support for the reform
program. Public outreach efforts under the program, such as the international conferences on good
governance and effective government held in 2001, are designed to increase public awareness and support
for the program's core objectives.

         The substantial progress achieved so far in both the financial and public sector components of the
PFPSAL program provides a reasonable basis for sustainability of the reform program, although some
delays and adjustments may occur. Medium-term strategies are well in place for all core areas of the
program (e.g., bank restructuring and institutional development in the financial sector; tax, public
employment, PEM reform, and anti-corruption in the public sector). Much of the legislative foundation for
the program is also in place, and new institutional structures have been established to implement critical
elements of the program (e.g., BRSA in the financial sector and the Public Procurement Agency in the
public sector). In many areas, implementation is already completed (e.g., bringing regulatory framework
up to EU and international standards, enforcement of corrective actions in problem banks, weeding out of
failed private banks, capital strengthening of remaining private banks, financial and operating restructuring
of state owned banks), or well advanced (e.g., rationalization of the public investment program). In most
areas, ownership of the program within the public administration is relatively strong. Implementation
progress continued even during the run up to the November 2002 elections. At the political level, the new
Government has expressed its general intention to continue with financial and public sector reforms,
although some fine-tuning is likely. The markets have reacted positively to the new, single party
Government and its commitment to pursue reform. More broadly, there is a clear dynamic for
modernization and change in Turkish society as witnessed by the liberalization of freedom of expression
and minority rights pushed through Parliament in August. Turkey's perspective of future EU membership
and on-going dialogue with the European Commission on adoption of the acquis communautaires
represents another key factor underlying sustainability of the reform program.

         The new Government has an opportunity to demonstrate to the markets and Turkey's international
partners that the economic reform program, including financial and public sector reforms, is a national
project which transcends individual political parties. To achieve this, the Government will need to move
quickly to unveil its detailed reform plans and take concrete action in order to sustain and build on the
recent improvements in investor confidence. Such a demonstration would provide a strong signal of
Turkey's determination to tame inflation and could be the key to lowering real interest rates and unlocking
the country's full growth potential. More narrowly, within the context of the public sector reform program,
a strong commitment from the new Government to take full political ownership of the reform process and
enhance inter-agency collaboration would help lock in medium-term sustainability of the program.

         The medium-term programmatic structure of envisaged World Bank support for financial and
public sector reforms in Turkey is designed to contribute to sustainability of the reform program. The
PFPSAL approved in mid-2001 has been followed up by PFPSAL II approved in mid-2002. Looking
ahead, two Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (PFSAL) and a Programmatic Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PPSAL) are envisaged under the current CAS to support continued implementation of
the program. A second PPSAL is tentatively envisaged beyond the CAS period. Some adjustment of
timing and sequencing on these may occur, in coordination with the government, in the context of the new
CAS for FY04-06 currently being finalized. These future programmatic operations will be underpinned by
a full ESW program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                    - 20 -

N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
   The Bank's performance during the preparation of PFPSAL was satisfactory given the very difficult
crisis environment and country context faced by the team. The time taken to prepare the loan was 3
months, which was a very rapid response.

7.2 Supervision:
    PFPSAL was a front-loaded operation, with much of the policy and regulatory reforms being carried
out prior to Board presentation. Supervision of PFPSAL was fully integrated with preparation of PFPSAL
II. Together with strong continuity in the project team and management, this helped ensure full coherence
of the program. With regard to the PSR component, the decentralized structure of the team allowed for
continuous supervision and dialogue with the Government and other key stakeholders.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
   Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory, the more so considering the difficult crisis environment
and time constraints. Responding to the needs of a country experiencing the paralyzing effects of a major
economic crisis, the Bank task team has worked with dedication and from a basis of in-depth country and
sector knowledge. An excellent relationship with the government agencies has been sustained throughout
the preparation and supervision stages. The interaction with the IMF team on this program has also been
satisfactory with the Bank team adding value and substance to the macroeconomic projections and
structural conditionality under the Fund program. The continuous approach adopted under the four
operations (ERL, FSAL, PFPSAL and PFPSAL II) has been instrumental in catalyzing sustained
implementation of financial and public sector reforms.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Undersecretariat of Treasury,
MOF, SPO, BRSA and all other Government agencies involved worked in close collaboration with the
Bank in defining the scope and content of the policy measures to be implemented under the PFPSAL
program. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that the PEIR which provided the analytical underpinnings
for much of the PSR component of the program was a truly joint collaboration between the Bank and the
Government, with strong government leadership of the study.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The Government's performance in implementing the PFPSAL program has been satisfactory so far.
Productive relations have been established and are continuing with all of the government counterparts under
the program. The counterparts moved quickly in close collaboration with the Bank to design and launch
the PFPSAL program in the months after the February 2001 crisis, and have been successful in sustaining
ownership and overseeing implementation of the program since, even during the period of political
uncertainty which preceeded the November elections, although some delays have occurred.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    The performance of Government agencies involved in implementing the policy measures supported by
this operation has been satisfactory. While some implementation of certain actions was delayed as a result
of the elections, the key implementing agencies are continuing to focus on the program. The progress
achieved to date in de-politicizing economic management in Turkey had a major impact in sustaining



                                                     - 21 -

implementation during the period of political uncertainty prior to the November elections.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
   Overall, the Borrower's performance in both the PFPSAL and PFPSAL II operations has been
satisfactory, particularly given the extensive and ambitious agenda of the program.

8. Lessons Learned

         Lessons learned from PFPSAL are given below. Since it was a continuation of the PFPSAL, some
of these lessons were instrumental in designing the PFPSAL II operation, while others are derived from the
implementation experience of the latter operation and will guide the preparation of future adjustment
lending in support of the program.

·        The approach of combining financial and public sector reforms into a single operation is well
suited to the Turkish context at this stage. The combination provides important synergies, including in
terms of ensuring consistency between fiscal adjustment and the financing requirements of the bank
restructuring program and in demonstrating to investors that Turkey is tackling the core structural
weaknesses underlying the country's chronic macroeconomic instability.

·        Urgency and complexity of the financial and public sector reforms--juxtaposed with real world
constraints on the institutional capacity of the Turkish administration--argues for selectivity in determining
core conditions and flexibility with regards to the timetable for the implementation of specific reform
measures. The single tranche structure of PFPSAL provided substantial up-front support in the critical
period immediately following the February 2001 crisis.       The multiple tranche structure of PFPSAL II
allows the Bank to stay closely engaged at this crucial point in the reform program and provides additional
flexibility to link the Bank's financial support more effectively to the actual implementation of specific
reform measures. The number of core conditions for the second and third tranches of PFPSAL II has been
streamlined in order to focus on the most important priorities while maintaining overall program coherence
as represented by the Letter of Development Policy and policy matrix.

·        In order to tackle the complex policy and institutional reforms that Turkey is undertaking, the
programmatic design of the PFPSAL operations recognizes the need to sequence measures over time, while
taking into account the uncertainties inherent in the crisis conditions that Turkey has faced since early
2001. The programmatic design allows for a reasonable degree of adaptability to unfolding events on the
ground while maintaining overall coherence and direction of the reforms.

·        A high degree of up-front political leadership, ownership of the strategy by the Government
including key ministries, and consensus behind the program are necessary preconditions for the successful
adoption and implementation of reforms. In most cases, reforms face resistance from vested interest groups
that would prefer to maintain the status quo. This would create risks for the program if political
leadership, ownership and consensus were to fall short. The PFPSAL program has worked to mitigate this
risk through intensive collaboration with the Government during preparation and supervision, an up-front
focus on strategy elaboration by the authorities, and public outreach efforts.

·        In cases where Government/agencies are also trying to deal with a crisis situation, the program
benchmarks should be designed with an understanding that due to crisis management efforts by the
Government/agencies, attention to the program actions will often be focused on urgent short-term problems
as explained in part by the delays in meeting some of the benchmarks for PFPSAL II. Flexibility in the
timetable for meeting certain benchmarks under the program was provided through the multiple tranche



                                                      - 22 -

design of PFPSAL II.

·       Unless a realistic assessment of the institutional capacity constraints of the counterpart agencies is
made and factored into the program, the program will be vulnerable to these constraints which are likely to
be a serious obstacle to program implementation. These capacity constraints can be alleviated, in part,
through timely provision of well focused technical assistance, e.g., as is currently being provided for public
procurement and public debt management.

·       A credible macroeconomic stabilization program is essential for the success of both financial and
public sector reforms. The Bank has collaborated closely with the IMF at each stage of the PFPSAL
program. Overall coherence of the reform program can be enhanced by closely coordinating IMF and Bank
conditionality where the Bank can provide value-added on substance while the IMF provides additional
financial leverage. In such cases, well coordinated conditionality is complementary. The PSR component
of the PFPSAL program provides a clear example of this complementarity.

·       Where the counterparts are often not the decision makers but are answerable to elected officials
with vested interests in maintaining the status-quo, there can be an issue of full ownership of the reforms.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
     The Bank's support to economic reform program of Turkey has been formulated through a series of
structural adjustment loans under programmatic financial and public sector adjustment loans. This
programmatic approach introduced by the revised Country Assistance Strategy has proved to be effective
to date, especially in accelerating the reform of financial sector. With regards to the public sector reform
area, the Bank's support has provided a momentum to move forward although there is still a lot to be done.


     During the preparation stage of PFPSAL, which is the initial operation of this multi-year lending
program, all of the related institutions involved in the studies have proved their commitment to reform
through the work they presented. As far as the implementation stage of PFPSAL is concerned, strides have
been achieved paving the way for second-generation structural reform programs under the subsequent
operations. The Bank's support to the structural reform program was very important to provide market
confidence that the concomitant implementation of medium­term reform program both in financial and
public sectors was initiated.

     Although the single tranche structure of a such a high amount loan might have been a reason for
imposing strict conditionalities when starting an ambitious structural reform program, it would have been
much more effective to provide flexibility in establishing conditionalities.

     The relatively on-time implementation of reform program from the beginning, is a sound basis for
effective cooperation with the Bank in future operations.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                     - 23 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                1
              Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate

Not applicable, as this is an adjustment
operation.




Output Indicators:
                                                                1
              Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable, as this is an adjustment
operation.




1End of project




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
              Project Cost By Component                      US$ million   US$ million
Not applicable, as this is an adjustment operation.


Total Baseline Cost                                             0.00             0.00


                           Total Project Costs                  0.00             0.00
                   Total Financing Required                     0.00             0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                   - 26 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable, as this is an adjustment operation.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/01                      1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Financial Sector Specialist
                                        1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Economist
                                        1    Lead Financial Sector Specialist
                                        3    Senior Economist
                                        3    Senior Legal Counsel
                                        1    Senior Operations Officer
                                        1    Financial Management Specialist
                                        1    Banking Adviser
                                        1    Financial Accountability
                                             Consultant
                                        1    Bank Restructuring Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5-6/2001                  1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Financial Sector
                                             Specialist
                                        1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Economist
                                        1    Lead Financial Sector Specialist
                                        3    Senior Economist
                                        3    Senior Legal Counsel
                                        1    Senior Operations Officer
                                        2    Financial Management Specialist
                                        1    Banking Adviser
                                        1    Financial Accountability
                                             Consultant
                                        1    Bank Restructuring Consultant

 Supervision
              7-12/01                   1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Financial Sector
                                             Specialist
                                        1    Joint Team Leader/
                                             Lead Economist
                                        1    Lead Financial Sector Specialist
                                        2    Senior Economist
                                        1    Economist
                                        1    Banking Adviser
                                        1    Financial Accountability
                                             Consultant
                                        2    Financial Management Specialist
                                        1    Senior Financial Analyst




                                              - 29 -

 ICR
               9/01                   1     Senior Operations Officer
                                      1     Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           69.43                     402,267.16
  Appraisal/Negotiation                18.62                      63,146.90
  Supervision                          20.03                     142,564.91
  ICR                                     5.0
  Total                              113.08                      607,978.97




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 33 -

- 34 -

