Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4632 TU
Loan Agreement
(Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan)                                                                     
between 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 12, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4632 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 18, 2001, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s financial and public sectors during 
the period 2001-2003 (hereinafter called the Program), which Program consists of 
actions and policies that have already been taken and adopted,  in a satisfactory 
manner, by the Borrower as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (hereinafter 
called the First Phase of the Program) as well as actions and policies that the 
Borrower intends to take and adopt prior to the subsequent phases of the Program; (ii) 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and (iii) 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B)  
the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional assistance 
in support of the First Phase of the Program and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Bank (the PFPSSAL Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing 
to provide such assistance in an amount equal to four hundred million Dollars 
($400,000,000) (PFPSSAL Loan); and 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
Page  2
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through  October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: "’Project’ means the 
program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the 
Loan is made."; 
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: "Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: "The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.";  and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted, and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 
9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Banking Law" means  Banking Law of the Borrower No. 4389, dated June 18, 
1999, as amended;
(b)
"BRSA" means the Bank Regulatory and Supervisory Agency of the Borrower, 
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
"Central Bank" or "CBT" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(d)
"CMB" means the Capital Markets Board of the Borrower;
(e)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"EU" means the European Union;
(g)
"GFS" means the government financial statistics published by the 
International Monetary Fund;
(h)
"GNP" means gross national product;
(i)
"HPC"  means the High Planning Council of the Borrower;
(j)
"Mass Housing Administration" means the Mass Housing Administration of 
the Borrower;
(k)
"Mass Housing Fund" means the fund established and administered by the 
Mass Housing Administration;
Page  3
(l)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(m)
"Privatization Administration" means the Privatization Administration of 
the Borrower;
(n)
"Public Participation Administration" means the Public Participation 
Administration of the Borrower;
(o)
"SDIF" means the Savings and Deposit Insurance Fund of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank; 
(p)
"SPO" means the State Planning Organization of the Borrower;
(q)
"Sworn Bank Auditors" means the Sworn Bank Auditors of the Borrower;
(r)
"TCA" means the Turkish Court of Accounts of the Borrower;
(s)
"Treasury" means the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Borrower; 
(t)
"Turk Telekom" means the telecommunications company of the Borrower; and
(u)
"UNCITRAL" means the United Nations Commission on International Trade 
Law.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seven  
hundred million Dollars ($700,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount of three 
million one hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($3,150,000). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
Page  4
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in         
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each  Interest Period:          
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above), the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.  
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. Such new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PFPSSAL Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower has: (i) completed the transfer of construction-related 
assets on Emlak Bank’s balance sheet to the Mass Housing Administration; (ii) merged 
all Emlak’s banking liabilities and performing banking assets with Ziraat Bank and 
Halk Bank; (iii) revoked Emlak Bank’s banking license; and (iv) provided sufficient 
capital to Ziraat Bank and Halk Bank in the form of marketable Government securities 
carrying floating rate coupon interest, to allow Ziraat Bank and Halk Bank to absorb 
all losses related with Emlak Bank’s merger, including the issuance of Mass Housing 
Fund securities to Emlak Bank in lieu of the construction-related assets transferred 
to the Mass Housing Administration on a short-term basis to be exchanged with Treasury 
securities within 2001.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of      
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
06510
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
HAZINE
44 232 HZM-TR
(312) 212-8550
Hazine, Ankara
44 404 HZM-TR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Ali Ümit Gönülal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                  -
Alcoholic beverages
121                  -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                  -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                  -
Radioactive and associated materials
Page  7
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718               718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897               897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971                  -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2006
through October 15, 2017
29,165,000
on April 15, 2018
29,205,000
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Recital (A) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement
I.  Macroeconomic Framework
1.
The Borrower has implemented a satisfactory macroeconomic framework for calendar 
year 2001, consistent with the core objectives, including: (a) positive GNP growth 
during the second semester; (b) inflation of two percent (2%) per month and nominal 
interest rates of 50-55% by the end of the calendar year; and (c) primary surplus for 
the consolidated public sector of five and a half percent (5.5%) of GNP.
2.
The Borrower has approved a satisfactory supplementary budget for calendar year 
2001 consistent with the macroeconomic objectives set forth in above paragraph 1 which 
also ensures satisfactory expenditure envelopes for health, education and social 
protection.
II.  Financial Sector Reform
A.  Regulatory Framework for Banking Activity
3.
The Borrower has amended the Banking Law to: (i) allow for full tax 
deductibility of all specific loan loss provisions required by BRSA effective for the 
year beginning January 1, 2001; and (ii) allow application of connected exposure 
limits on a consolidated basis while retaining the existing phase-in period in the 
Banking Law for connected exposure to reach EU limits, and introduce separate exposure 
limits for equity investments in non-financial subsidiaries in line with the 
applicable EU directive, with a phase-in period.
4.
The BRSA has: (a) issued through Decision No. 355, dated June 20, 2001, a 
Regulation on the existing loan loss provisioning rule, published in the Official 
Gazette on June 30, 2001, and has applied the loan loss provisioning rule also for 
Ziraat Bank and has lifted the exemption from specific provisioning for Ziraat Bank’s 
agricultural support loans; (b) issued, through Decision No. 354, dated June 20, 2001, 
and Regulation on chartering and operations of banks, published in the Official 
Gazette dated June 27, 2001:  (i) a satisfactory definition of connected exposure in 
line with the applicable EU directive, this definition and maximum exposure limit to 
apply on a solo and consolidated basis; and (ii) satisfactory interim steps and 
timetable for banks to reach compliance with the new Banking Law limits on equity 
holdings in non-financial subsidiaries; and (c) amended, to be effective as of January 
1, 2002: (i) the solo and consolidated capital adequacy regulations to change the 
reporting frequency for the capital base constituting the denominator of the foreign 
exchange exposure limit from quarterly to monthly; and (ii) the consolidated foreign 
exchange position reporting rule to change the reporting frequency from quarterly to 
monthly. 
5.
BRSA has agreed to finalize time bound action plans by August 31, 2001, with 
banks which are out of compliance with the new connected exposure limits for such 
banks to reach compliance.
6.
The Borrower has established a working group, comprising members from Treasury, 
BRSA, CBT, CMB and MOF, to recommend measures to reduce the risks caused by excessive 
use of retail repos/short term liabilities in the banking sector.
B.  Institutional Development of BRSA
7.
BRSA has developed, and its Board has approved, a time bound strategic plan with 
clearly assigned implementation responsibilities to: (a) have a comprehensive human 
resource policy further assimilating its staff from different sources and 
strengthening the staff training program; (b) integrate the existing multiple 
databases into a common database and develop a common platform for analyzing and 
assessing banking risks; (c) upgrade and develop procedure manuals for all major 
existing BRSA units; and (d) introduce the concept of relationship supervision with 
offsite examiners, enforcement staff and Sworn Bank Auditors working in teams on 
individual banks.
C.  Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution
8.
BRSA has identified all capital deficient banks in the system and agreed upon 
capital restoration plans with these banks or has initiated appropriate resolution 
Page  9
actions for these banks.
9.
Treasury, in cooperation with CBT, has injected into SDIF banks, enough:        
(a) marketable government securities (in Turkish Liras and foreign exchange) at market 
terms in a mix of maturities and currency denominations carrying quarterly 
market-based floating rate coupon interest to ensure that the banks have sufficient 
liquidity to operate and honor any deposit withdrawals, and to recapitalize the SDIF 
banks up to 0% capital adequacy; and (b) cash (in lieu of  Government securities 
referred in subparagraph (a) above) to retire at least two thirds (2/3) of all on and 
off balance sheet overnight high cost liability funding of the SDIF banks outstanding 
as of March 16, 2001, (excluding liabilities to CBT) and CBT to subsequently withdraw 
excess liquidity through open market operations within an overall ceiling on the stock 
of repurchase agreements of the SDIF and state-owned banks with CBT as of May 31, 2001 
of 7 quadrillion Turkish Liras.
10.
SDIF has: (a) hired required staff for its collection department; (b) received 
approval from its Board enabling the transfer of 1166 problem loan files (each above 
75 billion Turkish Lira) from Sumerbank to the collection department; and  (c) 
completed the transfer of 150 of the above-mentioned files.
11.
SDIF has selected a second transition bank besides Sumerbank, and revoked the 
license and initiated the merger/liquidation of Turk Ticaret Bank, Es Bank, Inter Bank 
and Eti Bank with either one of the transition banks.
D.  State-bank Restructuring and Privatization
12.
Treasury has, in cooperation with CBT,  injected into Halk Bank and Ziraat Bank 
enough: (a) marketable government securities in a mix of maturities and currency 
denominations and carrying quarterly market-based floating rate coupon interest to 
ensure that these banks have sufficient liquidity to operate and honor any deposit 
withdrawals and to write-off all remaining duty loss claims and recapitalize the two 
banks up to at least eight percent (8%) capital adequacy; and (b) cash (in lieu of 
Government securities referred in subparagraph (a) above) to retire at least two 
thirds (2/3) of all on and off balance sheet overnight high cost liability funding of 
these banks outstanding as of March 16, 2001, (excluding liabilities to CBT) and CBT 
has subsequently withdrawn excess liquidity through open market operations within the 
overall maximum ceiling on the stock of repurchase agreements of the SDIF and 
state-owned banks with CBT as of May 31, 2001 of 7 quadrillion Turkish Liras.
13.
The Borrower has appointed an independent professional governing board for Halk 
Bank and Ziraat Bank with the mandate to manage these banks in accordance with 
commercial principles and all prudential guidelines under the Banking Law issued by 
BRSA, and the governing board has initiated operational restructuring of these banks, 
including closure of unprofitable branches and reduction of redundant staff. 
14.
The governing board for Halk Bank and Ziraat Bank has appointed a restructuring 
advisor for Ziraat Bank and a restructuring and privatization advisor for Halk Bank.
15.
The Borrower has adopted an amendment to Law No. 6219 to allow the simultaneous 
sale of A and B shares of Vakif Bank, and has agreed to authorizing the simultaneous 
sale of the A and B shares.
III.  Public Sector Reform 
E.  Structural Fiscal Policies
16.
The Borrower has introduced a satisfactory supplemental fiscal package 
consistent with the revised fiscal targets for calendar 2001 including: 
(a)
increase in the petroleum consumption tax by at least 15% in May, 
following a 20% increase in April, and subsequent full implementation of the 
indexation regulation for the petroleum consumption tax adopted in 2000; 
(b)
increase in the standard value added tax rate from 17% to 18% and the 
luxury rate from 25% to 26%; 
(c)
increase in the minimum base for social security contributions of 40% and 
increase in the ceiling from 4 to 5 times the minimum base in line with existing 
regulations; 
(d)
full pass through by state-owned enterprises of cost increases due to 
exchange rate adjustments and the revised inflation targets; and 
Page  10
(e)
adjustment of agriculture support prices in line with the agriculture 
reform program. 
17.
MOF has issued Regulation No. 2, published in the Official Gazette dated      
June 19, 2001, to expand the use of tax identification numbers to owners of bank 
accounts, users of banking services and participants in financial transactions.
18.
The Borrower has announced that the number of civil servants will not increase 
in 2001 and has committed to implement a strict policy of replacing up to a maximum of 
fifteen percent (15%) of retiring personnel in state-owned enterprises including Turk 
Telekom and enterprises in the portfolio of the Privatization Administration.
F.  Public Expenditure Management
19.
The Borrower has established a high-level steering committee consisting of 
representatives from MOF, Treasury, SPO and TCA, and selected line ministries and 
agencies as needed, to coordinate the implementation of the public expenditure 
management reform. 
20.
The Borrower has adopted Law No. 4684, dated June 20, 2001, Prime Ministry 
letter No. 2001/817, dated May 17, 2001, and Decree No. 2001/2698, dated July 3, 2001  
to close the remaining fifteen budgetary funds and two extra-budgetary funds. 
21.
The Borrower has completed the new budget classification for consolidated budget 
agencies in line with new GFS standards for implementation on a pilot basis in 
calendar year 2002 budget.
22.
HPC  has issued Decision No. 2001/30, dated June 22, 2001, for the calendar year 
2002 budget preparation process, which in a satisfactory manner: (a) provides a macro 
fiscal framework for 2002 budget preparation including overall levels for the 
recurrent and investment budget; (b) establishes indicative ceilings for both the 
recurrent and investment budgets for ministries and line agencies; (c) freezes the 
introduction of new multi-year projects into the public investment program, except for 
possible emergency projects; and (d) calls for the rationalization of the public 
investment program in the 2002 budget, including: 
(i)
the timetable for rationalization process; 
(ii)
the objective of reducing expected average time for completion of 
public investment program by twenty percent (20%) compared to the 
2001 public investment program along with sector specific 
reductions consistent with this overall objective; 
(iii)
global criteria for prioritizing projects; and 
(iv)
instruction to line ministries and agencies to prioritize their 
investment programs in line with the ceilings, objectives and 
criteria. 
23.
The Borrower has substantially completed field installations for the say2000i 
computerized accounting system with the objective of starting full automation for 
consolidated budget agencies by the end of calendar year 2001.
24.
The Borrower has announced that the draft public procurement law to be submitted 
to the Parliament by October 15, 2001 will be fully compatible with UNCITRAL standards 
as  a first step towards full compliance with EU directives.
25.
The Borrower has established a task force to develop an audit reform program 
encompassing: (a) plan of actions, including necessary legal amendments, to expand 
scope of TCA audits to cover the entire general government including autonomous 
agencies, social security institutions, remaining extra-budgetary funds; and                    
(b) preparation of a new law on internal financial control and audit in line with 
international and EU standards based on a review of current control, inspection and 
audit process.
G.  Public Liability Management
26.
The Borrower has adopted Law No. 4684, dated June 20, 2001, and Decree No. 
2001/2312, published in the Official Gazette dated April 30, 2001, to eliminate all 
existing legal provisions authorizing creation of duty losses in the state banks.
Page  11
27.
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament the Law on Public Finance and Debt 
Management, in a satisfactory manner, that establishes the Treasury as the single 
borrowing authority for the central government and has initiated development of a 
comprehensive fiscal risk management framework.
28.
The Borrower has initiated the preparation of a satisfactory national strategy 
to combat corruption and improve governance. 
