                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 30339

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IDA-32230 TF-52548)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.5 MILLION (US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                    FOR AN

                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION
                         AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                 February 28, 2004




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Afric Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective April 16, 1999)

                              Currency Unit = CVE (Cape Verde Escudo)
                                       US$ 1 = 94.515 CVE

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGECABO Agencia Caboverdeana do Emprego e Trabalhos Públicos (Cape Verde´s Agency for
        Public Works and Employment)
BETP    Basic Education and Training Project
CA      Comissão Administrativa (TSF Executive Committee)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CNEF    Conselho Nacional do Emprego e Formação (National Advisory Council for
        Employment and Training)
CIP     Comité de Implementação do Projecto (Project Steering Committee)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
ECD     Early Childhood Development
DTF     Dutch Trust Fund
EOP     End of the Project
ESP     Education Strategic Plan
FAEF    Fundo de Apoio à Educação e Formação (Education and Training Scholarship Fund)
FCG     Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian (Portuguese private Foundation)
FEE     Fundo de Edição de Manuais (Textbooks Revolving Fund)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
IEFP    Instituto do Emprego e Formação Profissional (Employment and Training Institute)
INE     Instituto Nacional de Estatística (National Institute of Statistic)
IP      Instituto pedagógico (Pedagogical Institute)
ISE     Instituto Superior da Educação (Secondary Teacher Training School)
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MET     Ministry of Employment and Training
MOE     Ministry of Education
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NER     Net Enrollment Rate
NOSI    Núcleo Operacional para a Sociedade de Informação (the Government Support Unit for
        Information Society)
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDE     Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola (School Development Plan)
DO      Development Objective
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Support Paper

PSR     Project Status Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SPPT    Strategic Plan for Professional Training
TSF     Training Support Fund
UNICEF  United Nations Children Fund

                             Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                           Country Director     Madani M. Tall
                             Sector Manager     Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Geraldo J. Martins

                                         CAPE VERDE
EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
 6. Sustainability                                                                11
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
 9. Partner Comments                                                              14
 10. Additional Information                                                       16
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
 Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 30

Project ID: P055468                                                  Project Name: CV-Education & Training Consolidation
                                                                     & Modernization
Team Leader: Geraldo Joao Martins                                    TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CV-Education & Training Consolidation &                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-32230; TF-52548
                            Modernization
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (29%); Vocational training (26%); Central
                            government administration (23%); General education sector (22%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P);
                            Social analysis and monitoring (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/01/1998                                     Effective: 10/01/1999                10/01/1999
     Appraisal: 12/09/1998                                         MTR: 06/15/2001                  10/14/2001
      Approval: 05/25/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION &
                                           MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING
                      Other Partners:      CALOUSTE GULBENKIAN FOUNDATION

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas R. Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Geraldo Martins                                Carmen Perez-Castaño
ICR Primary Author:             Geraldo Martins


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context and Background. The Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization Project (ETCMP,
Cr. 3223-CV) was designed as a follow-up of the previous IDA-funded Basic Education and Training
Project (BETP). The BETP helped to introduce important reforms in the education and training sector in
Cape Verde the most important of which were: (i) the extension of basic education from four years to six;
and (ii) the establisment of the foundation for a flexible, demand-driven training system. These
achievements were primarily a result of: (i) the construction and equipment of new classrooms; (ii) the
improvement of teachers' qualifications; (iii) the provision of textbooks and teachers guides; and (iv) the
implementation of the Training Support Fund (TSF) and apprenticeship program. The ETCMP sought to
consolidate these achievements and address existing imbalances in terms of equity in basic education and
training, while launching the foundations for a quality and more sustainable education system in Cape
Verde. The Project was co-financed by the Government of Cape Verde, the World Bank and the Calouste
Gulbenkian Foundation (FCG - Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian). The Project was approved by the Board
on May 25, 1999 and became effective on October 1, 1999 with the scheduled closing date of June 30,
2003.

Original Objective. The development objective (DO) of the Education and Training Program was to
develop a technically and financially sustainable education and training system to ensure an educated and
flexible work force responding to Cape Verde's social and economic goals. The Project objectives were to:
(i) maintain and consolidate the recent reforms in primary education (grades 1-6) and in demand-driven
training and apprenticeship programs initiated under the BETP and to (ii) assist the Government in carrying
out a comprehensive sector study, addressing issues of quality and equity in order to identify cost-effective
options for the sustainable development of the education/training system through the medium-term.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) makes a distinction between the Program objective, which is the
long-term objective for the education and training system in Cape Verde and the Project objectives. The
Project objectives were clear, realistic and aligned with Key Performance Indicators (KPI), although they
were put forth as components and not overarching goals of the Project. They were relevant objectives for
Cape Verde because they were consistent with the current development priorities as expressed in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) (September 2004) and the Education Strategic Plan (ESP). They
were also aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (1997) which sought to: (a) achieve a viable
and stable macroeconomic framework; (ii) consolidate policy reforms in support of private sector
development; and (iii) support human resource development and poverty alleviation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the Project remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had four original components and six sub-components.
Component 1. Education and Training Consolidation (US$3.28 million)
This Component relates to the first Project objective. The aim of this Component was to maintain and
consolidate the recent reforms in primary education and workforce development (demand-driven training
and apprenticeship programs) initiated under the BETP. It was, therefore, divided into two sub-components
that would separately tackle issues related to both basic education and training programs.




                                                     - 2 -

Sub-component 1.1 - Reinforcement of the Integrated Basic Education
The sub-component was to serve as a follow-up of the former education component of the BETP. Its
objectives were to: (i) construct 60 classrooms to create 3,600 student places on a double-shift basis for the
school year 2000-01, following the standard design developed under the BETP; (ii) ensure that textbooks
and teacher guides are available on a sustainable basis through the reprinting of 270,000 books (while
another 240,000 copies would be financed by Textbooks Revolving Fund (FEE--Fundo de Ediçâo de
Manuais) and 55,000 teacher guides and to (iii) provide technical assistance and fund operating costs to
strengthen the management of the FEE, by contracting a manager, improving accounting procedures and
cost-recovery, and reviewing the FEE's operating regulations.

Sub-component 1.2 ­ Reinforcement of the Training Programs
This sub-component aimed at providing bridging funds to finance demand-driven training of approximately
285 skilled workers per year (an average of about 15 programs per year) conducted by providers (public or
private institutions or enterprises) on a cost-sharing basis. It was also to finance training of about 185
apprentices per year, totaling 555 by the end of the Project. The Project also aimed to strengthen advisory
and government policy bodies in the area of professional training, particularly the Conselho Nacional do
Emprego e Formação(CNEF) ­ the National Advisory Council for Employment and Training and the
Comissâo Administrativa (CA) ­ the TSF Executive Committee, through the identification and diagnosis
of operational difficulties, clarification of members' responsibilities, and determining new ways of ensuring
collaboration between the two bodies. Finally, the Project was to help update and improve employment
surveys, including the survey on emigration.

Component 2 ­ Education and Training Modernization ­ Sector Studies (US$ 1.98 million)
The Component sought to help the achievement of the second project DO by carrying out: (i) a
comprehensive review of the education sector; and (ii) an evaluation of existing employment and training
policies and programs. It was assumed that since Cape Verde had almost achieved universal primary
education, an important step forward would be to identify critical factors more likely to influence the
quality of education and to move towards a full restructuring of the professional training sector. The
Component was divided into two sub-components.

Sub-component 2.1 - Education Sector Review
This sub-component was to provide a comprehensive sector review, comprising the following key activities:
(i) an assessment of the pre-school program; (ii) a school-based qualitative assessment of primary and
secondary schools; and (iii) an assessment of higher education programs. These assessments were to
examine factors influencing school performance. The methodology was to be comprised of field
assessments at the school-level conducted by roving teams made up of principals, teachers and pedagogical
advisors. On the basis of agreed protocols, the teams were to interview students, parents, teachers,
administrators and employees. The interviews were to be complemented by classroom observation as well
as by analytical studies and analysis to identify bottlenecks in school management and pedagogical
processes.

Sub-Component 2.2 - Evaluation of Labor Force Development Policies
The sub-component was to assist in: (i) a review of vocational training policies, including the roles of the
public and private sectors; the licensing and inspection of private sector training centers; incentives for the
private sector; the clear articulation and distinction between formal education and vocational training in
terms of pre-requisites (skills and knowledge), (ii) an evaluation of employers' financial contributions to the
TSF and apprenticeship programs; and (iii) the development of a facility map for the training sub-sector
that included the establishment of a database for the existing training centers.




                                                      - 3 -

Component 3 ­ Field-Testing and Consultation (US$0.65 million)
This Component was related to the second DO. It was designed to enable the field-testing and/or adaptation
of new teaching/learning packages, new technologies, and school-based initiatives to improve quality and
efficiency of education. It was also to pilot new approaches in information, education and communication
(IEC). Proposals for field-testing were to be reviewed in terms of the potential impact of these activities on
quality, technical and institutional feasibility and cost-effectiveness.

Component 4 ­ Capacity Building (US$1.44 million)
In order for the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of Employment and Training (MET) to be
prepared to implement a broad program of modernization (the second DO of the ETCMP), the Project was
to assist the capacity building of the two ministries.

Sub-component 4.1- Institutional Development
This sub-component had two main activities: (i) an institutional assessment of the MOE's and the MET's
central and decentralized structures; and (ii) the strengthening of planning and economic analysis. The
objective of the institutional assessment was to streamline and strengthen key services, adapting them to
implementation requirements of sector-wide approach to development. The recommendations of the
assessment would guide the implementation of a capacity-building program to strengthen the relevant
technical, administrative, financial and procurement departments of the two Ministries. The strengthening
of planning and economic analysis would encompass studies on financial model of the education and
training system, a public expenditure review and options for secondary and higher education development.
The purpose of these studies was to help the Government of Cape Verde make informed decisions
concerning the design of future programs and their delivery on the basis of their cost-effectiveness and
economic impact.

Sub-component 4.2 Project Coordination
The implementation of the Project was under the responsibilities of two ministries, the MOE and the MET.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the coordination of the cabinet of the Vice-Prime Minister was
responsible for the administration, financial and procurement management. However, these responsibilities
were to be transferred to the relevant ministerial departments through a specific capacity-building program.
A Project Steering Committee (CIP - Comité de Implementação do Projecto), comprised of the
coordinators and the directors of the concerned ministry services, was established to monitor
implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
While the project components were not revised, the following new activities were incorporated after the
mid-term review (MTR): (i) in-service teacher training and (ii) revision of a national student evaluation
system were added to the Component 1; (iii) a young professional program and (iv) the development of
information management system of the MOE were added to Component 4. These adjustments were deemed
necessary following recommendations by the qualitative assessment (sub-component 2.1) that stressed the
need to reinforce teachers' preparation, to envisage the reduction of the high repetition rates at basic
education and to find short-term strategy to strengthening the capacity of the MOE.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, but marginally so. The Project DO was broadly aligned with the
CAS (1997) and relevant to Government priorities for the education sector. The design of the Project relied
significantly on the positive lessons learned from the previous project, including those related to
institutional and implementation arrangements. It was also based on the assumption that sector studies and
field-testing were necessary given the recent development of Cape Verde's education system. This



                                                       - 4 -

assumption is broadly in line with the International Development Association (IDA) regional strategy that
notes that any effort to accelerate education development must be grounded in comprehensive sector
analysis. In addition, the risk assessment was well conducted and elements of a strategy to mitigate these
risks delineated. However, the quality at entry was affected by the lack of focus of the sector studies.
Indeed, the studies' objectives were not always clear (the expected outcomes and impact were not specified)
and the results framework (the number of studies to be completed) was not precised. In addition, the
imprecise costing of the studies that accounted for nearly 40% of the credit denoted some inconsistency.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the quality at entry marginally satisfactory in February 2000.
The QAG argued that the scope of the studies was not clearly identified and that Specific Investment Loan
(SIL) was not the most appropriate way to finance sector studies.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of outcome objectives under the Project is satisfactory.

The education sector has been consolidated and ensures primary universal education. The Net
Enrollment Rate (NER) is currently 96% (94% in 1999) with better equity between urban and rural areas.
Gender equity has also been strengthened. Girls currently account for nearly 48% of students in primary
education. The completion rate in basic education is 92%. The learning environment has improved since all
students have access to textbooks (25% of the textbooks were subsidized). In 2000, only 90% of students
had access to textbooks. Three hundred fifty three primary school teachers (22.7% of untrained teachers
and 12.8% of partially trained teachers) were trained between 2002 and 2004, by using an innovative
pedagogical approach, exceeding by 60% the number initially planned (210). According to the 2003/04
statistics, the pass rate in grade 6 was 86%, as compared to the envisaged objective of 85%. The national
system of evaluation was revised to eliminate repetition within each of the three sub-cycles in basic
education. This measure, associated with the teacher training program, is expected to improve the internal
efficiency of the system and the quality of education. However, on the negative side, the standardized
evaluation of learning achievements was not established, and Cape Verde still does not participate in any
international testing.

The professional training system was strengthened. The sector is currently better structured and likely
to be able to respond to the existing demand of professional training. The legal framework for professional
training has been enacted. Several laws and regulations, such as the Law on Professional Training
Financing, and the Regulation for Accreditation of Professional Centers have been prepared and approved.
The partnership between the Employment and Professional Training Institute (IEFP- Instituto de Emprego
e Formação Profissional),employment centers and several public and private institutions allowed the
training of more than 2,000 individuals, under the TSF and apprenticeship program. By the end of the
Project, 72% of apprentices were able to find a job, which is slightly below the envisaged 80%. In addition
to its impact on the labor market, the Project contributed to generate a new dynamic in the sector, through
the strengthening of partnership between the public and private sector and capacity building of the IEFP.

The knowledge-base of the education and training sector was strengthened. The performance of the
sector studies and field-testing may be assessed as satisfactory based on the revised indicators (Annex 1).
Several studies were conducted (see list of studies in section 10), some of which provided key inputs to the
elaboration of the ESP and the adoption of a number of policy measures, including cost-sharing and school
autonomy in secondary education and the sustainability model of the FEE. The studies mobilized various
technical staff of the MOE and the MET and contributed to capacity-building among these two institutions.



                                                     - 5 -

However, the studies have not been broadly disseminated among stakeholders. In the area of professional
training, the surveys and institutional assessment carried out provided valuable input to the elaboration of
the national assessment of professional training (White Book). It is on the base of this assessment that the
Strategic Plan for Professional Training (SPPT) is now in the process of being finalized. Overall, the
institutional capacity of the MOE and MET has been strengthened as indicated by the large number of
trained staff and the current ability of the two ministries to develop, document and implement sector
policies (the MOE has recently released policy papers of good quality, prepared entirely by its staff,
notably, the diagnostic of the education sector in Cape Verde, the assessment of teacher training needs and
medium-term teacher training priorities and action plan). Until recently, similar papers have been produced
with external technical assistance.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Consolidation of Education and Training

This component is satisfactory.

Sub-Component 1.1 Consolidation of Integrated Basic Education
This sub-component is satisfactory. Eighty classrooms out of the 81 planned (one was abandoned
following a decision by the MOE) were built, equipped and staffed. With the current double shift system
and the average teacher/pupil ratio of 1/27 in the basic education sector, additional places were provided
for nearly 4,500 children. The Project had initially planned for the construction of 60 classrooms by 2001
to complete the construction plan begun under BETP. This number was further increased following the
Government's request at the MTR to respond to the increase in enrollment in certain areas and the lack of
school infrastructure in poor communities. The pace of construction, which was slow in the beginning (by
October 2001, only 70% of classrooms had been provided) has accelerated as the Cape Verde Agency of
Public Works (Agência de Execução de Trabalhos Públicos de Cabo-Verde- AGECABO) was contracted
in October 2002 to replace the PCU as the manager of contracts for school construction. AGECABO
successfully managed the construction of 50% of the classrooms of the Project, both in terms of adherence
to the agreed upon calendar and the quality of the works.

Between 2000 and 2004, 550,000 textbooks were printed and distributed to primary school students, which
is 7% higher than planned. Twenty-five percent of these textbooks were subsidized with support from the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). In addition, 55,000 teacher guides were printed. The FEE
financed 57% of all textbooks distributed during the project life. Its financial management system was
improved through improved accounting procedures and reviewed operating regulations and its financial
sustainability was met by the enforcement of cost-recovery.

Three innovative two-year in-service teacher training courses were launched. The Project financed mostly
the curriculum development for these courses, the production of didactic material and the provision of
equipment for the Pedagogical Institute (Instituto Pedagógico - IP) where the courses were offered. The
courses featured were selected according to the specific needs of different categories of teachers. In S.
Antão Island, a distance-learning course complemented with lectures twice per semester is currently being
offered to 148 teachers by the IP of Mindelo, with co-financing from UNICEF. The IPs of Praia and
Assomada have provided on-the-job training for two categories of teachers (without any pedagogical
qualification and teachers with insufficient pedagogical qualification). These courses combine hands-on
activities with lectures and pedagogical practice in schools. As the courses are still being offered and have
not yet been evaluated, their impact on the quality of education can only be assessed in the coming years.
However, the full participation of teachers (to date, not one participant has dropped out) who not only pay
attendance fees but also who have, in some case, to walk long distances from their school to the IP to attend



                                                     - 6 -

lectures have testified of the interest and the quality of the courses.

The establishment of a students' achievement evaluation system, which was one of the activities added to
the project after the MTR as a tool to assess the quality of education, was not materialized. The MOE has
created a working group to set up the system, including the design of the academic achievement test.
However, divergent opinions among its members on the way in which to move forward have hindered the
group's capacity to effectively accomplish its goals. To address this limitation, technical assistance would
have been needed to help define a model and the necessary institutional framework.

Sub-Component 1.2 Reinforcement of the Training and Apprenticeship Programs
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs succeeded
in scaling-up the previous programs under the TSF. Between 2000 and 2003, the TSF financed 54 courses
offered by 41 providers, which enrolled 1,211 individuals (885 initially planned). The apprenticeship
program enrolled 1,067 individuals aged 14-21 (555 initially planned). The program was improved with the
introduction of theoretical activities conducted at the employment centers, while practical activities
continued to be carried out by private firms. In the TSF program, co-financing from firms and individuals
regularly increased to reach the peak of 70% of the total cost of the training in 2001.

With regards to the strengthening of the advisory and policy body of professional training, the achievement
is twofold. While the CA (composed of two representatives of the private sector, two representatives of the
trade unions, the General Director of IEFP and the representative of the MET) was strengthened and played
a dynamic role in the functioning of TSF, acting as interface between the public and private sector, the
CNEF was not strengthened and was not active during the project life. With the integration of the IEFP into
the MOE, the CNEF was considered an irrelevant structure.

The employment survey and the survey on emigration were conducted quarterly until 2003. After that time,
they were held on a biannual basis until the end of the Project. The surveys helped to update data on
employment and provided useful inputs for the assessment of the job market. These surveys will continue to
be undertaken by the National Institute of Statistic (Instituto Nacional de Estatística - INE).

Component 2. Sector Studies

This component is satisfactory.

Sub-component 2.1 - Education Sector Review
This sub-component is satisfactory. Quality assessments were carried out in 23 pre-schools, primary,
secondary and higher schools out of 24 envisaged. Based on determined features of an effective school (in
terms of quality and equity), the assessments identified specific bottlenecks with regards to quality. These
included: (i) teacher training; (ii) school management; (iii) Portuguese language instruction; and (iv)
methodology of multi-grade teaching. The results of these assessments were useful because they served as
inputs for the three pedagogical field-testing conducted subsequently in 37 pre- and basic education
schools. The recommendations of the assessments were also taken into account through the inclusion of
some new activities into the Project (see section 3.).




                                                       - 7 -

Sub-component 2.2 ­ Evaluation of Labor Force Development Policies
This sub-component is satisfactory. In order to assess vocational training policies, the Project financed
various surveys, including those focusing on: (i) costs of professional training; (ii) assessment of the TSF;
(iii) assessment of the apprenticeship program; (iv) assessment of the employment centers; and (v) private
firms' professional training needs. These assessments allowed for the setting up of a database for the
existing training centers and provided useful inputs to the elaboration of the national assessment of
professional training sector in Cape Verde (White Book), as the first step toward the development of a
sustainable demand-driven vocational training system.

Component 3 ­ Field-testing and consultation
This sub-component is rated as satisfactory. The field-testing conducted included testing on: (i)
pedagogical innovation focusing on multi-grade teaching, based on the model of Escola Activa (Active
School); (ii) innovative pedagogical approach of Portuguese teaching, based on two endogenous best
practices identified in Cape Verde; and on (iii) school-development plans (Plano de Desenvolvimento da
Escola - PDE), based on the Brazilian experience of Fundescola. The field-testing was conducted by IPs in
coordination with the General Directorate of Basic and Secondary Education (DGEBS ­Direcção Geral do
Ensino Básico e Secundário), beginning in 2002. The two first field-testing activities involved 20 schools,
169 teachers, 28 pedagogical coordinators and 5,317 students. The pilot test on PDEs involved 17 schools
and 39 teachers and parents who had developed these plans together.

The experiences have generated good results, some of which include: (i) greater stakeholder interest in the
school (school headmasters, teachers, pedagogical coordinators, parents, representatives of local
government, representatives of the MOE); (ii) interesting pedagogical changes, particularly related to
pedagogical practice; (iii) various new pedagogical materials produced, including a guideline manual for
teacher training on multi-grade teaching (now called Escola Viva in Cape Verde); and (iv) greater
awareness, valorization and preparedness of the education actors for multi-grade teaching. The latter is
particularly important for Cape Verde, where multi-grade classes are common due to its geographical
characteristics. Because the experiences started late in 2002 (the idea was to wait for the inputs of the
qualitative assessment), it has not been possible to evaluate them. This evaluation is critical in order to
analyze and to determine the conditions for expansion and generalization of these innovations. The MOE
has indicated that the evaluation will be undertaken during the current school year.

In support of the field-testing, a communication unit was created within the MOE. The unit helped to share
the dynamism of the experience and to generate and sustain broad mobilization of the stakeholders and the
public for the testing. The unit is now playing a central role in the implementation of the MOE's
communication strategy.

Component 4. Capacity Building on Education Planning and Management

This component is satisfactory.

Sub-component 4.1 Institutional Development
This sub-component is satisfactory. With the support of the Project, the education and training system has
benefited from a clear medium-term policy framework. The ten-year ESP(2003-2013) has been adopted
and the SPPT is in the process of being finalized. The sector studies on economic and financial analysis
generated valuable information on costs and financing of the sector.

The Project contributed to capacity-building of the MOE by financing a broad participative institutional
assessment at central and local levels between 2000 and 2001 that have resulted in a staff development


                                                    - 8 -

plan. It also has supported the implementation of these plans that included the training of 120 officials from
all the departments of the MOE and decentralized structures. This entire process has generated a new
dynamic in the sector and was well appreciated by the training participants who believe that it has
contributed to changes in the way they work. The second institutional assessment was not undertaken as
planned and is now expected to be conducted in 2005 with the support of the national budget.

To support the strengthening of the MOE's institutional capacity, the young professional program was
launched in 2002. Six positions were created within the MOE and filled with young professional through a
competitive process and on a contractual basis. The young professionals worked closely with senior
officials and international technical assistance of the Project during an 18-month period. By the end of the
Project, they were offered civil servant positions. Five out of the six young professionals accepted the
positions and are currently working in different departments of the MOE. This allowed, in particular, for
the strengthening of capacity in the planning unit.

With the support of the Project, a new three-year course on education planning was created at the
secondary teacher training institute (ISE ­Instituto Superior da Educação) to address the issue of shortage
of capacity in this area. The Project financed the curriculum design for the new course. Some sixty students
are currently attending this course.

The information management system was also strengthened in the MOE. Eighteen educational institutions
including administrative units, district offices and secondary schools have been connected into a computer
network system that includes three Islands (Santiago, S. Vicente, Fogo). This has facilitated
communication and information sharing among the MOE departments. By the same token, with the
technical assistance of the Government Support Unit for the Information Society (NOSI - Núcleo
Operacional para a Sociedade de Informação), computer applications were designed to collect and
analyze education data and to strengthening the management at secondary schools. However, at the time of
the ICR mission, most of the schools were still experiencing difficulties in dealing with these tools due to
lack of training.

4.2 ­ Project Coordination

This component is satisfactory. Project coordination was effectively assured by the PCU. The PCU,
initially under the office of the Vice-Prime Minister, was gradually integrated into the MOE. This
facilitated coordination and collaboration with departments of the MOE and with the IEFP, which was also
integrated into the MOE. The CIP functioned regularly, mainly after the integration of the PCU into the
MOE in 2001. The restructuring of the Project in August 2002 which allowed for the inclusion of
additional classrooms, the launching of three in-service teacher training courses and the scaling up of the
TSF program led to the extension of the Project closing date to June 30, 2004 to allow for the conclusion of
these activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
     Annex 3 on Economic Costs and benefits provides a more detailed discussion on the cost-effectiveness
of the Project. The general conclusion is that the selected options both for the education sub-sector and the
professional training system are cost-effective.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                      - 9 -

    The institutional development impact of the Project is rated as substantial. The economic and financial
studies provided useful inputs to help Cape Verde make cost-effective decisions regarding the development
of the education and training sector. The new policy framework that clarifies the sector mission, objectives
and targets will likely ensure the better alignment of competencies and resources with the education goals.
The rules governing the training sector (the various laws, statutes and regulations enacted) will further
favor the willingness of the private sector to continue to deliver effective demand-driven programs utilizing
a cost-sharing approach. The Project also created the capacity within the MOE and MET in various ways,
including the training of staff through a staff development program, establishment of a computer network
and provision of computer management applications, setting up a communication unit and defining and
establishing a strategy of communication. The PCU was progressively integrated into the MOE. These
could likely serve as the pillars for better management of human and financial resources in the sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    An unfavorable exchange rate between the US dollar and the Cape Verde currency (escudos) during the
2003 and 2004 affected the Project. The significant depreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to escudos
during that period led the Project to drop some activities (e.g. the implementation of PDE and the
realization of the second institutional assessment).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The constraints identified include the decision to run the construction program by the PCU, which led to
delays in the provision of classrooms. The 60 classrooms initially planned to be provided by the Project
should have been provided by 2001. In October 2002, only 43 classrooms (72%) had been provided.
Therefore, the MOE decided to contract AGECABO in order to accelerate the provision of classrooms.
Following AGECABO's participation, the agreed schedule for classroom delivery was respected.               If
AGECABO had been involved from the very beginning, it is likely that these delays could have been
avoided and the classrooms would have been available in 2001 as initially planned.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The flux of funds to the TSF sometimes experienced delays. Because of these delays, some courses were
interrupted for several weeks or months. This affected the overall performance of the TSF program which
may have had more positive outcomes in terms of number of courses provided and beneficiaries enrolled.
The delays seem to be due to inadequate monitoring of some contracts by IEFP.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project was approved for an amount of SDR 4.5 million (US$6.0 equivalent), which accounted for
82% of the total Project cost. The remaining 18% was to be financed with contributions from the
Government (9.7%) and the FCG . However, the FCG did not fully respect its financial commitment to the
Project. It financed only a few technical assistance and two resource centers at IP, whose costs were not
reported. The total cost of the Project represents 85,2% of the cost estimated at appraisal.

As of October 31, 2004 (four months after project closing), 96.3% of the IDA Credit (US$5,804,153) had
been disbursed. Counterpart funds amounted to US$313,941, covering the totality of expenditures eligible
for this category, and the FEE financed textbooks in an amount of US$249,914, which is below the amount
of US$335,000 that was initially planned. The disbursement rate followed a good pace without any
significant delays. At the MTR, the disbursement rate was 45.7%. In August 2002, an amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with credit reallocation was made. The purpose of this reallocation
was to: (i) meet the demand for an additional 25 classrooms; (ii) reduce the cost of consultancies by partly
replacing international technical assistance by national technical assistance at a lesser cost; (iii)



                                                     - 10 -

accommodate the costs of teacher training activities (which appeared as a new activity in the Project); and
(iv) support expansion of professional training programs. The reallocation consisted of an increase in
Project Categories 1 (civil works) and 3 (training) and decreases in Categories 2 (goods and equipment), 4
(consulting services) and 5 (operational costs).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely

Technically, sustainability is judged to be likely. The professional training sector has the technical capacity
to effectively manage training programs. The Government is likely to pursue training and apprenticeship
programs with the support of the national budget (a budget line has been included in the budget for 2005)
further capitalizing on the experience and results already achieved.

The institutional sustainability is likely. The Project, through improved information system and
capacity-building, has helped the sector to move from the project approach to a program approach (with
the integration of the PCU into the regular MOE structure). Education is one of the key sectors in the
upcoming Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) and has been benefiting from Dutch budget support
since 2003.

While the financial sustainability has not been fully achieved (increasing pressure in terms of access to
secondary education and the decisions to expand the pre-school and higher education and to develop a
technical secondary education are potential risks still present), the sector has been able (and is likely to
continue to be able) to mobilize and use funds effectively. Although the Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) were virtually achieved in the country's education sector, Cape Verde has been allocating
approximately 8% of its GDP (including capital expenditures) to education, showing its strong commitment
to the sector. Despite this meaningful achievement (compared to most Sub-Saharan Africa countries), it is
unlikely that Cape Verde will be able to meet its education needs alone, i. e. without external assistance, in
the near future. However, recent policies, including those focusing on cost-sharing in secondary education,
improvement of internal efficiency of the system, incentives to private schools, autonomy of FEE (which is
able to continue to finance textbooks on an autonomous basis), are likely to balance the financing of the
system and may stimulate further donor involvement in the sector.

In addition, Cape Verde is currently experiencing a demographic transition. According to recent
projections, the number of students at basic education is stagnant and will decrease over the next five years.
This will release pressure on teacher recruitment. The recently prepared medium-term teacher training plan
(2005-10) stresses that effort should be concentrated on qualifying teachers working in the system rather
than recruiting and training new teachers. The newly developed teacher training approaches will be the
building block for Cape Verde's in-service teacher training system (the Government issued a decree in
October 2004 to institutionalize these courses).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since 2003, the education sector is benefiting from a Dutch Trust Fund (DTF). The Fund in an amount of
US$6.9 million will be released over a three-year period to finance Early Childhood Development (ECD),
basic education and capacity-building. This financing aims to further pursue and consolidate some of the
activities initiated under the Project, including in-service teacher training, editing and publication of the
results of the qualitative assessment and field-testing, evaluation of the field-testing and the second round of
institutional assessment. The PRSC-1 is expected to be effective in 2005. In the education sector, it will



                                                     - 11 -

specially target basic education and professional training. The prior actions for PRSC1 in the education
sector (a comprehensive medium-term teacher training plan and the diagnostic of the professional training
sector) have been met.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification and appraisal of the Project is rated marginally satisfactory.
The Bank team worked well with Government counterparts during the identification phase. The Project
objectives were consistent with the Government's development priorities and with the Bank's CAS. The
Bank also assisted the Government in the preparation of the Project assuring the continuity of the dialogue
initiated under the BETP. Although the design of the Project relied on lessons of the previous project,
correct assumptions and a good risk assessment, it was affected by the lack of focus of sector studies,
whose objectives and indicators were unclear and the costing imprecise.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance is satisfactory. The Bank conducted an average of two supervision mission per
year. The Project had three Task Team Leaders (TTLs). The missions were usually well staffed with an
adequate skill mix. The team was proactive in identifying implementation problems and making
recommendations to improve project performance. For example, during the supervision mission of May
2001, the Bank team raised concerns about the delay in the provision of classrooms and recommended to
outsource the contract management of the remaining classrooms to AGECABO. The establishment of a
link between field-testing and qualitative assessment (in the initial design of the Project field-testing was
designed as an independent activity) is another illustration of this proactive attitude and approach.

While the technical work done by the Bank team was good and acknowledged by the Government, the
dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower was, at times, difficult. The Government assessment of the
Bank's performance highlights some misunderstandings and a difficult dialogue between the Bank
and the Borrower during the first 18 months of the Project. For example, during the MTR, in
October 2001, the Government proposed to restructure the Project by reducing the scope of the sector
studies and the international technical assistance and by reinforcing the activities under the consolidation
component (e.g.school construction, teacher training). The position of the Bank team was that priority
should be put on the quality component of the Project whose implementation experienced some delays. The
Bank took some time to address these differing views. After the MTR and following further
discussions between the Bank team and the Government, the Government proposal was deemed acceptable
by the Bank and was incorporated into the Project, with the corresponding indicators being revised
accordingly.

On the other hand, project reporting was good. Since most of the potential risks were modest, the Bank
team focused more on monitoring the DOs, progress in implementation and adherence to the financial
covenants. The ratings given in the Project Status Reports (PSR) were realistic..

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory. The quality of supervision helped refocus the DO and
indicators and contributed significantly to the success of the Project.




                                                    - 12 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Government is satisfactory. The Government issued a Sector Policy Letter in April
1999 that clearly indicated the priorities and policies for the sector over the period 1999-2003 on which the
Project design heavily relied. The Government demonstrated its commitment to the Project during the
preparation phase. It participated in a project identification workshop held in Washington in July 1998 for
senior Government staff. It also created a preparation team composed of technical staff from the MOE and
the MET under the overall coordination of the Vice-Prime Minister's Office. This team acted as the Bank's
counterpart, working closely with the Bank team during the 9 months of project preparation. The Project
was ready for implementation as planned. The PCU was staffed promptly and the administrative and
operational documents were prepared in a timely manner (Project Implementation Manual, Draft
Accounting and Project Management Manual and the procurement plan for the first year of
implementation)


7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Satisfactory

The Project was officially launched in October 1999, with the participation of the Vice-Prime Minister,
government officials and representatives of donor agencies. The Government also assured large
participation of key stakeholders. The counterpart funds were provided on a timely basis. The changes in
the Government during the project life (four Ministers of Education from 1999 to 2004) did not interfere in
major operational decisions of the Project. The Project also benefited from a favorable macro-economic and
sector policy conditions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory

The two institutions directly involved in project implementation were the MOE and the MET through the
IEFP. Both performed well in terms of coordination with the PCU and implementation of agreed activities.
The exception was the monitoring of certain contracts of TSF by IEFP, which was sometimes troubled and
the management of the school construction program by the PCU which experienced delays. With these two
exceptions, most of the activities were completed on a timely basis. The financial management of the
Project was satisfactory and the audit reports submitted in timely manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    The overall borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Some lessons may be summarized as follows:

This Project has shown some lessons that include:

(ii) Policy dialogue between the Borrower and the Bank requires flexibility in dealing with evolving
educational context. As demonstrated by this Project, flexibility in the dialogue in the context of broad
sector reforms was crucial to ensure the success of the Project. When the Bank responsiveness to
Borrowers needs is prompt and timely misunderstandings are reduced, mutual confidence are reinforced
and the success of the Project is more likely. This Project is a good example of how Bank flexibility helped
to sharpen the Project objectives and reorient/adjust activities with good results.



                                                     - 13 -

(ii) In the context of sector reforms, the Government's political commitment is critical to the success
of a Project. Projects may have been well designed and implemented by good managers. But in order to be
successful, political commitment is critical. Again, this is a Project that survived elections and changes in
Government, but the Government kept committed to its objectives. The reforms were pursued in the basic
education and professional training sector with support to the Project being provided from across two
ruling parties.

(iii) The integration of the PCU into the regular structure of the MOE requires capacity-building and
a good communication strategy. In order for the institutional arrangement to be successful, the strategy to
progressively integrate the PCU into the regular MOE structure should be accompanied by
capacity-building and a good communications strategy that broadly shares the objectives and processes
with all the stakeholders. As discussed in the ICR, this was a gradual process designed from the beginning
to be smooth. It started with the continuity in terms of implementation arrangements when the transition
occurred from the BETP to the ETCMP. The PCU shifted then from the Office of the Vice-Prime Minister
to the MOE and, further, it was progressively reduced in scope until the regular structure of the MOE was
able to take over the role of project coordination (with the DTF). This was an achievement that will likely
ensure the institutional sustainability of the Project.

(v) Assessing the capacity of the PCU is crucial to ensure the success of school construction programs.
When a physical component appears to be an important part of a Project, it is critical to carefully assess
the PCU's capacity to undertake this activity. Should the PCU be in the business of managing school
construction? The example of Cape Verde seems to imply that it should not be responsible for this. This
Project revealed that school construction should be left to firms specializing in construction that have clear
comparative advantages in managing school construction programs in a cost-effective way as compared to
the PCU. In this case, it was clear that the role of the PCU should have been limited to oversight and
supervision of the construction program, ensuring that such work is accomplished in accordance with
established standards.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower prepared an End of Project report (Annex 8) that presents its own assessment of the Project's
implementation. The main conclusions of the report are summarized below:

Assessment of the Development Objective
The Project objectives were consistent with the education policy orientation of the Government. This
orientation of the Government's education policy primarily focused on the need to consolidate and reinforce
the reforms initiated under the previous project and the importance of developing the knowledge-base for
future interventions in the sector. The preparation of the Project took into account the lessons learned
during the previous decade during which numerous reforms were undertaken in the education sector.

Achievement of objectives and outputs
The Project objectives were achieved. The outputs by components are deemed satisfactory. The Project
contributed to the development for the first time of an ESP in Cape Verde. The Project also contributed to



                                                      - 14 -

poverty alleviation by building and equipping new classrooms using local private firms. However, the
overall impact of the Project on the education sector can only be fully assessed in the coming years.

Project Coordination
The Project's overall coordination was good. The Project Coordinator fulfilled his responsibilities related
to the coordination of activities while the various technical departments within the MOE were responsible
for the technical implementation of their respective activities. The CIP met seven times during the life of the
Project. This Committee was particularly dynamic after the integration of the Professional and Employment
Institute into the MOE.

Institutional Development Impact
The Project did not create a new structure but rather contributed to the strengthening of the existing
ones. The Project orientation was always to strengthen the existing structures so that they were able to
carry out project activities. This has been achieved. The professional training sector now possesses the full
technical capacity to manage the professional training programs. Its new legal framework will provide new
perspectives in the reorganization of the sector.

Sustainability
The Project did not generate substantial recurrent costs. The recurrent costs associated with the
construction of new classrooms, the teacher training program and other Project activities are minimal. The
sustainability of the teacher training program is likely since participants pay attendance fees. The
professional training program and the apprenticeship program funded by the TSF are likely to be continued
and further developed with support of the national budget.

Bank's Performance
Overall, the Bank performed well. The quality of the dialogue with the Bank was poor during the first 18
months of the Project. During this period, while the technical products of the Bank's missions were good,
several misunderstanding occurred. An illustration of this is the MTR which was supposed to include a
thorough assessment of the project results but was in fact a mere supervision mission. The Government has
presented a proposal to restructure the Project, yet the Bank refused to consider this proposal. The impasse
was solved only after the appointment of the new TTL for the Project in April 2002. The quality of
dialogue improved after this new TTL took office.


Borrower Performance
The overall performance of the Government is satisfactory. The political changes which occurred
during the implementation of the Project did not affect project performance. The Ministers respected the
project orientations and did not interfere in order to create obstacles in its management. Delays in the
provision of the counterpart funds were registered at the outset and by the end of the Project. These delays,
however, did not affect the overall project performance.


Lessons Learned
Some of lessons of the Project are as follows:

         (i) The Project was ambitious, particularly the sector studies, given the limited size of the country
and its institutional capacity. However the Project was useful as a tool to help the planning process and the
modernization of the education sector.



                                                     - 15 -

        (ii) The institutional arrangement for project implementation could have relied more significantly
on the existing technical structures of the MOE, supported by technical assistance.

        (iii) Sustainability of the Project and institutional capacity-building are issues that should be
carefully assessed during project preparation in order to avoid creating "white elephants". The overarching
objective of ensuring sustainability requires focus on appropriate staffing and the strong motivation of the
team in the MOE and the appropriation of the knowledge, tools and management models created or adopted
by the Project.



(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the FCG.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Table 1. List of textbooks financed by the project and FEE (revolving fund)

     Year              Textbooks Printed             Cost (US$)                Financing

2000                 240,000                  208,000                   Project

2001                 180,000                  159,428                   FEE

2004                 130,000                  90,486                    FEE

TOTAL                550,000                  457,914



Table 2. List of in-service teacher training courses and number of beneficiaries

      Course Type              Beneficiaries    Starting date         School           Duration
                                                                                      (semesters)

Distance-learning training
Course for teachers in S.           148      November 2003           Mindelo               4
Antao

In-service training course for      139      October 2003            Mindelo               4
Partially trained teachers                   February 2004             Praia

In-service     training    for       70      October 2003              Praia               5
untrained      teachers     of                                      Assomada
Santiago Island




                                                    - 16 -

 Table 3. List of beneficiaries of TSF and apprenticeship program

     Program                  2000           2001          2002          2003    Total
     TSF Program              181             281           287           462    1,211

    Apprenticeship            395             219           219           234    1,067
        program

 Table 4. List of studies carried out by the Project
N.                                       Study
 1 Analysis of the evolution of the costs of education between 1996 and 2000
 2 Simulation models of costs
 3   Review of Education Expenditures by municipalities, NGOs and religious
   entities
 4 Cost of school cantinas
 5 Cost of technical schools
 6 Sustainability of FAEF
 7 Financial assessment of the scholarship policy
 8 Analysis of recurrent expenditures in the education sector
 9 Assessment of the education sector
   Cost-benefit analysis in the education sector
   Financial assessment of the provision of textbook




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


   1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                       KPI                         By the end of the project
                                                             (2004)

1Outcome indicators

Maintaining and consolidating recent reforms in
basic education and demand-driven training
and apprenticeship program

94% NER in primary education maintained by the
End of Project (EOP)                             NER is 96%

Student achievement in key subjects (85% pass
rate on grade 6 exam) maintained                 Pass rate is 86%

90% of students with textbooks maintained by
EOP                                              100% of students with
                                                 textbooks
Training job placement increased from 60% to
80% by EOP                                       Training job placement of the
                                                 apprentices is 72%*
Assist the Government in carrying out a
comprehensive sector study

Costs of the ETS programs projected through
medium-term by EOP                              Costs projected through
                                                medium-term
Technical feasibility & cost-effectiveness of
proposed options established by EOP**

Analytical capacity in place by EOP**

2 Output Indicators

Integrated Basic Education

60 classrooms according to national standards
ready for SY 2000-01 (81 classrooms as per the 80 classrooms built and
revised indicator)                              equipped

270,000 textbooks and teacher guides produced
and distributed by 2000 and 240,000 by 2001 (a
total of 510,000 textbooks distributed)         550,000 distributed by 2004



                                               - 18 -

30% of textbooks subsidized
                                                     25% of textbooks subsidized



12 textbooks and corresponding teacher guides
(grades 1-4) update by 2002                          12 textbooks updated

Management system for the FEE improved per
agreed criteria**

Training and Employment

15 demand-driven vocational training programs
financed yearly with annual increases in client      12 demand-driven training
financing                                            programs financed in 2000, 13
                                                     in 2001 and 16 in 2002 and 25
                                                     in 2003
285 skilled workers yearly trained totaling 855 by
2002                                                 1,211 skilled workers trained

185 apprentices financed yearly increasing client
financing from 10% to be reviewed annually,          1,067 apprentices trained.
totaling 55 by 2002                                  Cost-sharing by clients was
                                                     not introduced
Modernization of Education and Training***

(a) Sector Studies

     (i) Education sector economic and financial
     analysis (macroeconomic analysis, assessment
     of the education sector, cost-benefit analysis,
     internal efficiency analysis, financial         All the studies were completed
     assessment of the provision of textbooks        and published
     simulation model)

     (ii)Quality assessment on the organization and
     functioning of schools (research in 24 schools, Quality assessment carried out
     transversal analysis and recommendations for in 23 schools (pre schools,
     education policy)                               basic education and secondary
                                                     education), transversal
                                                     analysis done and
                                                     recommendations reflected in
                                                     field-testing options

(iii)   Analysis of the teacher training program
(assessment of the existing training programs and The teacher training program
strengthening of the teacher training)               was evaluated and three new


                                                    - 19 -

                                                   modalities of in-service
                                                   teacher training designed and
                                                   implemented
(b) Field-testing

(iv)    Field-testing in 17 schools on school      Field-testing conducted in 17
management by SY 2002-03                           schools, School Development
                                                   Plans developed, but not
                                                   implemented

(v)     National student learning assessment
introduced (assessment of learning achievements This was not done. The team
through national examination at grade 6 in 24      to prepare proposal was put in
schools) and participation of Cape Verde in        place but no proposals were
international learning assessment testing          presented

(vi)    Pedagogical innovations (identification of
pedagogical innovations used in Cape Verde,        Field-testing on multi-grade
adaptation of multi-grade teaching by 2002)        conducted in 10 schools and
                                                   on Portuguese teaching
                                                   conducted in 10 schools
(vii)   Teacher training (210 untrained teachers
trained)                                           353 untrained teachers trained

(viii) Seminars, interviews, radio broadcasting    The process of field-testing
and other mechanisms of feedback used regularly was disseminated but the
to disseminate results of sector studies and       results were not broadly
field-testing                                      disseminated among the key
                                                   stakeholders
 Capacity Building

Institutional assessment of the MOE completed by Institutional assessment
June 2000                                          completed

Staff development plan elaborated by September Plan elaborated and
2000                                               implemented ( 120 staff of
                                                   MOE benefited from modular
                                                   training during a 6-month
                                                   period)

*Participants in the TSF are employees.
** These indicators are vague
*** Revised indicators following the MTR




                                                  - 20 -

    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

         Project Cost by Component (in US$ thousand equivalent)
               Component                                Appraisal                 Actual/Latest                Percentage of
                                                        Estimate                     Estimate                    Appraisal

  1.Education/                      Training              3,076                         2,968                        96,5
  Consolidation                                           1,860                         0,974                        52,4
  2. Sector Studies                                       0,618                         0,777                       125,0
  3. Field Testing/Consultation                           1,364                         1,593                       116,0
  4. Capacity Building
    Total Baseline Cost                                   6,916                         6,313
    Physical Contingencies                                0,300
    Price Contingencies                                   0,144
             Total Project Cost                           7,362                         6,311                        85,2
      Total Financing Required                            7,362                         6,311                        85,2



    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ thousand equivalent)

Expenditure Category                      ICB                 NCB                 Other              NBF                Total Cost

(1) Civil Works                                                1.157                                 0.122              1.279
                                                               (1.041)                                                  (1.041)

(2) Goods including books                 0.262                0.136              0.184              0.523*             1.105
and didactic material                     (0.262)              (0.122)            (0.165)                               (0.549)


(3) Training and apprenticeship                                                   0.649                                 0.649
programs                                                                          (0616)                                (0.616)


(4) Consultant services                                                           3.066              0.450**            3.516
                                                                                  (3.066)                               (3.066)

(5) Operating costs                                                               0.813                                 0.813
                                                                                  (0.755)                               (0.755)

Total costs                               0.262                1.293              4.712              1.095              7.362
Total financed by IDA                     (0.262)              (1.163)            (4.602)               -               (6.027)

         Note: NBF = Not Bank-financed
         Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. Total may not add up due to rounding
         * Of this amount, the FEE will finance textbooks and teacher guides printing in the amount of US$ 335,000 and the FCG
    will finance the pedagogic materials to equip two resources centers for continuous teacher training for the amount of US$
    161,000.
    ** Of this amount, the FCG will finance technical assistance for US$ 450,000.




                                                                - 21 -

         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB             Other            NBF          Total Cost

(1) Civil Works                                     1.459                            0.122        1.581
                                                    (1.412)                                       (1.412)

(2) Goods including books         0.241             0.169           0.050            0.249        0.709
and didactic material             (0.241)           (0.122)         (0.050)                       (0.413)


(3) Training and apprenticeship                                     1.111                         1.111
programs                                                            (1.084)                       (1.084)


(4) Consultant services                                             2.444                         2.444
                                                                    (2.444)                       (2.444)

(5) Operating costs                                                 0.466                         0.466
                                                                    (0.449)                       (0.449)

Total costs                       0.241             1.628           4.071            0.371        6.311
Total financed by IDA             (0.241)           (1.534)         (4.027)             -         (5.804)




 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                           Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                              IDA       Govt.       CoF.        IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA     Govt.  CoF.
 1. Education and Training
 Consolidation
 2. Sector studies
 3. Field testing
 4. Capacity building
 Total cost                   6.03      0.72        0.61        5.80       0.51             96.2    70.8    0.0

    *The contribution of the FCG to the Project was not reported.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

    The PAD does not provide a cost-effectiveness analysis of the Project to clarify Project options.
Because the Project intended to consolidate the achievements of the BETP, these options were limited. Yet,
the ICR suggests looking at the cost-effectiveness of the selected options, trying to identify the global
benefits of the Project and the costs of alternative options.

    Cost-effectiveness analysis of the education sub-sector. The most important benefit of the Project in the
education sector is the greater opportunities for better quality education for the rural poor. Other benefits
include the impact of identified and selected pedagogical innovations to the improve the quality of
education. These represent unquestionable social benefits for the society. An important step is to determine
what would be the least expensive alternative combination that could produce these benefits.

    The construction of classrooms is cost-effective. The Project focused primarily on the construction of
classrooms in order to expanding various existing small schools in rural areas, instead of building
centralized schools that would realize economies of scale. That option had the advantage of avoiding the
recruitment of new teachers. The staffing of new classrooms relied on the redeployment of in-service
teachers by maximizing their time. The fiscal impact of this option was therefore marginal. At the time of
project appraisal, the fiscal impact was estimated at 1% of the recurrent budget of the MOE. By increasing
the number of classrooms by 50%, the fiscal impact of all the classrooms would have been 1.5%. This
impact is lower than in the case of centralized schools. Therefore, the selected option appeared to be less
costly than that of supporting centralized new schools.

    The provision of textbooks seems to be the least-cost option to improve the learning achievement.
The positive effect of textbooks on students learning achievement is well-known. With 100% of students
with textbooks, the global effect of this option is high, while the direct associated costs incurred by the
Project is low. This is because cost-recovery is part of textbook policy in Cape Verde. Books are sold to
students, except for 25% of students from lower-income families for whom they are free. This 25%
represents the only costs that can be directly attributed to improved learning achievements. It accounted for
0.2% of the recurrent budget in 2002. When considering additional benefits related to strengthening the
FEE, including financial sustainability, this option is clearly cost-effective.

    A large scale in-service teacher training program would be a possible alternative for quality
improvement.      This option, although not envisaged initially, appeared later in the Project but was
undertaken on a small scale. The Project mainly supported investment costs (equipment for IP, technical
assistance to design the programs and reproduction of pedagogical manuals) to train 353 teachers. The
recurrent costs were supported by the Government budget. These costs were mostly recovered through fees
paid by participants in the program, meaning that scaling-up the program would not have had a major
impact on the budget. This option would also be cost-effective but it poses problems with regards to
institutional feasibility. The training of approximately 1,200 untrained/partially trained teachers during the
life of the Project would overwhelm the capacity of the IP and have a negative impact on its operations.
Now that the foundations of in-service teacher training have been established, it is possible to gradually
enroll all unqualified teachers in the program.

    Cost-effectiveness analysis of professional training program. The TSF and apprenticeship programs
were cost-effective compared to traditional professional training programs. A simple comparison of unit
cost of the two approaches supports this conclusion. Both have the benefits of increasing employment
opportunities for young people and enhancing the qualification of Cape Verde's work force. The likelihood
that these benefits will contribute to the development of the economy as a whole is high. However, the TSF



                                                     - 23 -

model, based on separation of roles between the Government and the private sector, has an average unit
cost of US$1,200 (an average US$3,000 for traditional programs), with large participation of the private
sector in the financing of the courses. In addition, the TSF produces a qualified work force within a shorter
period of time.




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/98-01/99             10     EDUCATION SPEC./TTL
                                             EDUCATION POLICY
                                             SPECIALITST
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             VOCATIONAL TRAINING
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
                                             EECD SPECIALIST
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/99-04/99               5    EDUCATION SPEC./TTL
                                             COUNSEL, LEGAF
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER


 Supervision

              10/29/1999                3    TTL (1); SR. OPERATIONS          S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN. ANALYST
                                             (1)
              03/30/2000                5    TTL (1); EVALUATION OF           S               S
                                             EDUCATION (1);
                                             ECONOMICS OF EDUCATION
                                             (1); HD MANAGER (1);
                                             EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              11/16/2000                5    TTL (1); EDUCATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              05/31/2001                5    TTL (1); EDUCATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
                                             (1)
              06/08/2002                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/07/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             QUALITY COMPONENT (1);



                                              - 25 -

                                           EDUCATION POLICY (1);
                                           INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPM
                                           (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               02/15/2003              3   TTL (1); EDUCATION                 S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (2)
               01/27/2004              3   TTL (1); EDUCATION                 S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (2)


 ICR
               10/28/2004             1     SR. EDUCATION                     S    S
                                            SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            24.5                           92.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 16.1                           67.7
  Supervision                           35.0                         153.5
  ICR                                   10.6                            3.0
  Total                                 85.1                         311.1




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1.Project Appraisal Document. Report n. 18581-CV
  2. Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the Republic of Cape Verde (Cr. 3223-CV)
  3. Cape Verde Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
  4. Cape Verde Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), September 2004
  5. Aide-mémoires and related PSRs
  6. SAP Project Cost Details
  7. Audit reports
  8. Government's Project Completion Report




                                              - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                                        Relatório final do PROMEF

          MINISTÉRIO DA EDUCAÇÃO E VALORIZAÇÃO DOS RECURSOS HUMANOS

  PROJECTO DE CONSOLIDAÇÃO E DE MODERNIZAÇÃO DA EDUCAÇÃO E FORMAÇÃO
                                      EM CABO-VERDE (PROMEF)
                                       RELATÓRIO DO GOVERNO

 1.    Antecedentes

          Negociado em Abril de 1999, o Projecto de Consolidação e Modernização da Educação e
 Formação (PROMEF) entrou em vigor em Outubro do mesmo ano. Inicialmente o PROMEF foi
 concebido para ser um projecto charneira entre uma fase de reforma do sector da educação, reforma
 essa em vias de finalização e uma nova fase, cujos objectivos deveria o projecto contribuir para
 clarificar, ao longo da sua vigência.


          As duas grandes vertentes do projecto, Consolidação e Modernização, traduzem com rigor, o
 compromisso encontrado que consistiu em, através da Consolidação, reforçar os resultados ou produtos
 obtidos ao longo dos anos, nomeadamente através de acções de apoio à reforma nesta fase. Na vertente
 Modernização, o propósito era estudar os aspectos de maior relevo susceptíveis de serem reformulados,
 adaptados em ordem a melhor servir os desígnios e as políticas nacionais em matéria de educação e
 formação.


       A concepção do Projecto baseou-se nas lições aprendidas ao longo dos cerca de dez anos de
 implementação da reforma, nomeadamente através do financiamento da mesma através de crédito obtido
 junto da Associação Internacional, o PROMEF foi concebido para solidificar os aspectos de maior
 sucesso no âmbito da Reforma e lançar novas bases para o futuro em áreas consideradas de alguma
 fragilidade. Para o efeito, alguns estudos prévios eram necessários. Estes estudos deveriam ser feitos no
 início do projecto fundamentando em seguida boa parte da sua implementação.

       Os objectivos do projecto eram extremamente ambiciosos. Não só per se, considerando que seria a
 primeira vez que estudos técnicos de grande envergadura na área da educação seriam levados a cabo por
 técnicos nacionais, embora com assistência técnica de consultores estrangeiros. E o quadro institucional
 previsto para a implementação era o de um projecto e não o de uma instituição/estrutura do Ministério,
 com as vantagens (obtenção de resultados) e inconvenientes (objecto estranho, não reconhecido,
 problemas de perenização) que tal escolha acarreta.

 2.    Estratégia de Assistência ao País (EAP) do Banco Mundial

          A transformação do principal recurso de Cabo Verde, o homem, numa mão-de-obra qualificada
 e flexível é considerada condição primordial para o desenvolvimento do país. A EAP do BM
 assentava-se nos seguintes pressupostos: (i) atingir um quadro macro - económico viável e estável; (ii)
 apoiar o desenvolvimento e a redução da pobreza.

 3.    Estratégia do Governo

          A estratégia de desenvolvimento do Governo actual assenta nos seguintes pressupostos: (i) a



                                                  - 30 -

estabilidade macro ­ económica; (ii) o aumento do emprego e a erradicação da pobreza extrema; (iii) a
educação, erigida como grande desígnio nacional; e (iv) o reforço da política de descentralização.

4.   Objectivos do Projecto

        O projecto visava atingir os seguintes objectivos: (i) manter e consolidar as reformas
conseguidas no ensino básico integrado e nos programas de formação e de aprendizagem; (ii) apoiar o
Governo na elaboração de um estudo abrangente do Sector Educação que trate as questões da qualidade
e da equidade, a fim de identificar opções baseadas na relação custo-eficácia para o desenvolvimento
sustentado do Sistema de Educação e Formação.

5.   Componentes do Projecto

Componente 1. Consolidação da Educação e da Formação

        Sub-componente 1.1. Reforço do Ensino Básico Integrado: (i) construção e equipamento de 81
salas de aula adicionais; (ii) garantia do acesso dos alunos aos manuais escolares, através da reedição de
510.000 manuais escolares para o EBI, a reedição de 55.000 guias do professor. (iii) fortalecimento da
Gestão do FEE, através do recrutamento de um gestor, da melhoria do sistema contabilístico, da
recuperação dos custos e da revisão do regime de funcionamento.

        Sub ­ componente 1.2. Reforço dos Programas de Formação: (i) formação de 285
trabalhadores anualmente, totalizando 855 no término do projecto e aumentando a comparticipação dos
beneficiários (empresas) em 10%; (ii) formação de 185 aprendizes anualmente totalizando 555 no fim
do projecto; (iii) revitalização do CNEF e do CA; (iii) seguimento trimestral da evolução do mercado do
emprego; (iv) realização de inquéritos às estruturas e às modalidades de formação, bem como de
inquéritos de seguimento dos formandos do programa de aprendizagem.


Componente 2: Modernização da Educação e de Formação/ estudos sectoriais

        Sub - componente 2.1 : Avaliação do sector da educação: (i) realização de uma avaliação do
programa da educação pré ­ escolar; (ii) realização de uma avaliação qualitativa das escolas do Ensino
Básico e do Ensino Secundário (com o registo das conquistas alcançadas); (iii) no ensino superior, uma
análise das bolsas de estudo para o exterior e das medidas visando melhorar a sua rentabilidade e ainda,
um estudo de viabilidade relativo à consolidação dos institutos existentes a fim de oferecerem um
programa coerente de estudos académicos que satisfaçam as necessidades dos indivíduos, do
empresariado e do Governo, na base da comparticipação nos custos; (iv) realização de uma análise
económica e financeira do sistema educativo; (v) no ensino superior, estudo sobre a sustentabilidade do
Fundo de Apoio ao Ensino e Formação (FAEF), avaliação dos encargos com a actual política de bolsas
de estudo e proposta de novos critérios para a fixação do montante de bolsas de estudo e mecanismos de
reembolso.



        Sub­componente 2.2. Avaliação das políticas de mão de obra: (i) Análise das políticas de
formação vocacional. (ii) avaliação das contribuições financeiras das entidades empregadoras ao FPEF
e aos programas de aprendizagem e o impacto económico e eficácia dos actuais programas de crédito e
de micro-empresas; (iii) Desenvolvimento de um mapa das instalações destinadas à formação do
sub-sector.




                                                  - 31 -

Componente 3 : Testes de Campo


         Sub - componente 3.1: Testes de campo de opções seleccionadas: testes de campo nas áreas
de: (i) gestão sscolar; e (ii) melhoria da gestão administrativa e pedagógica das escolas.

         Sub - componente 3.2: Consulta/ Informação, Educação e Comunicação (IEC): (i) realização
de workshops e entrevistas a intervenientes; (ii) rádio e outros mecanismos de resposta utilizados
regularmente nos estudos e testes de campo.


Componente 4. Reforço Institucional

         Sub-Componente 4.1. Desenvolvimento Institucional: (i) realização de uma avaliação
institucional do MEVRH; (ii) promoção da capacitação institucional com base nas recomendações das
auto-avaliações institucionais (AAI); (iii) estabelecimento de um Sistema de Informação e de Gestão
Escolar (SIGE) e da conectividade; (iv) lançamento de um programa de recrutamento de jovens quadros;
(v) elaboração de um Plano Estratégico da Educa(para dez anos) para a Educação.


Sub - Componente 4.2. Gestão do Project: Organização e realização do projecto no MEVRH, com uma
Unidade de Coordenação independente. As diferentes componentes e actividades do projecto sob a
responsabilidade dos serviços centrais competentes.

6. Principais resultados




Componente 1: CONSOLIDAÇÃO DA EDUCAÇÃO E FORMAÇÃO



1.1 Reforço do EBI
·     Concluídas e mobiladas 80 salas de aula em Mosteiros, Santa Catarina, Tarrafal, São Miguel,
Santa Cruz e Praia.
·     Aquisição e distribuição de mobiliário (mesas e cadeiras para alunos, quadros, expositores,
secretárias e cadeiras para professor e recipientes) para as 80 salas construídas
·     Reimpressos 90.000 manuais escolares, com recursos do FEE.
·     Reimpressos 240.000 manuais escolares, com recursos do crédito IDA.
·     Reimpressão de 180.000 manuais, com recursos do FEE.
·     Reimpressos 55.000 exemplares dos guias do professor.
·     Cerca de 25% dos manuais distribuídos gratuitamente com o apoio financeiro do UNICEF e
BORNEFONDEM
·     Gestão do FEE fortalecida e integrada no tecido institucional do MECD, tendo o funcionamento do
mesmo sido considerado muito satisfatório desde essa integração nos serviços ligados ao SG a partir de
fins de 2001.


1.2 Reforço dos programas de formação
·     2 seminários de informação para os membros do CNEF e do CA



                                                   - 32 -

·     Seguimento trimestral da evolução do mercado de emprego (OME)
·     Quadro do Pessoal definido.


Programa de Formação e Aprendizagem

Os municípios inicialmente beneficiados eram: Praia, S. Vicente, Rª Grande, Paul, Porto Novo. Em
2002 alargado a Santa Catarina Santa Cruz e S. Nicolau.Através do Instituto de Emprego e Formação
Profissional (IEFP), o Fundo de Apoio à Formação (FAP) financiou a formação de 1211 pessoas (885
inicialmente previsto). O Programa de Aprendizagem prosseguiu as acções de formação desenvolvidas
entre 1996 e 1999 que tinham levado à formação de 1048 aprendizes. Esta acção foi melhorada com a
introdução de uma vertente teórica (25% do programa). 1067 jovens entre os 14-21 anos que
abandonaram precocemente o sistema educativo receberem formação vocacional (555 previsto pelo
projecto), distribuídos por um total de 56 projectos, com a comparticipação financeira elevada das
empresas.

Componente 2:           MODERNIZAÇÃO DA EDUCAÇÃO E FORMAÇÃO. ESTUDOS
SECTORIAIS


        2.1 Avaliação do sector da educação


·     Conclusão da avaliação qualitativa da educação pré - escolar, ensinos básico, secundário e
superior.
·     Análise financeira e da eficácia interna do sector
·     Conclusão da avaliação qualitativa do ensino superior.

A análise-diagnóstico dos sub-sistemas foi feito e incluído no âmbito da Pesquisa Qualitativa, cujo
relatório final foi disponibilizado em Dezembro de 2002.

       Pesquisa qualitativa


·     Pesquisa qualitativa com o foco na escola (educação pré-escolar, encinos básico e secundário)
finalizada.
·     Relatórios dos 23 Estudos de Caso (unidades educativas da educação pré-escolar e Ensino Básico,
em cinco ilhas e 11 Concelhos) concluídos. Os relatórios parcelares foram finalizados.
·     Concluído o Relatório final da Pesquisa Qualitativa, disponível desde inícios de 2002.

Análise Económica e Financeira

        Esta área de actividade visava obter informações precisas sobre os custos e financiamento do
sistema, incluindo certos custos unitários, bem como produzir, a partir daí, elementos que permitissem
tomada de decisões estratégicas visando a melhoria da gestão macro e micro.

Estudos e levantamentos efectuados.

·     Diagnóstico e levantamento dos custos das escolas técnicas.
·     Participação na preparação do Censo dos Funcionários Públicos ­ Relatório Preliminar elaborado.



                                                  - 33 -

·    Subsídios para os estudos de custos das Cantinas Escolares (PAC/PC)
·       Elaboração e aplicação de questionário de levantamento das despesas de educação financiadas
        pelas Autarquias, ONGs e Entidades Religiosas.
·    Elaboração do relatório Performance do Sector Educativo.
·    Análise da Evolução dos custos da educação 1996 a 2002.
·    Elaboração dos principais indicadores macro-económicos
·    Restruturação do Modelo de Simulação.
·       Formação dos técnicos do GEP, em Planeamento da Educação e Modelo de Simulação.
·    Relatório de performance do sistema educativo.


      Ensino Superior

·    Estudo sobre a sustentabilidade do Fundo de Apoio ao Ensino e Formação (FAEF).
·    Avaliação dos encargos com a actual política de bolsas de estudo.
·       Proposta de novos critérios para a fixação do montante de bolsas de estudo e mecanismos de
        reembolso.


2.2 Avaliação da formação profissional
·    Feita a avaliação do TSF através de cinco inquéritos: (i) Inquérito às Estruturas e Modalidades de
Formação; (ii) Inquérito de Seguimento dos Formandos das Empresas e Centros de Formação; (iii)
Inquérito aos Formadores; (iv) Inquérito às Necessidades de Formação; (v) Inquérito dos Custos de
Formação. O objectivo destes inquéritos dirigidos a 860 beneficiários e a 23 estruturas de formação é o
de permitir um melhor conhecimento do sistema nacional de prestação de serviços na área da formação
profissional.
·    Estudo sobre Engenharia de Formação Profissional nas Empresas, realizado por uma empresa
portuguesa proporcionando ao IEFP um melhor conhecimento da formação profissional realizada nas
empresas cabo-verdianas
·    Versão preliminar do Livro Branco de Formação Profissional elaborado, apresentando um
diagnóstico bem como estratégias e programas para a promoção da formação profissional no país.


Componente 3 : TESTES DE CAMPO E CONSULTAS


3.1 Testes de campo de opções seleccionadas

·    Formulada uma matriz integradora de todas as áreas de intervenção, visando a melhoria do
processo de ensino - aprendizagem.

Formação de Professores
·    Teste de campo "Curso de acolhimento e capacitação de candidatos a professores do ensino básico
sem formação" implementado
·        Teste de campo sobre gestão escolar, avaliação das aprendizagens e inovções pedagógicas
realizadas.

·   Elaborado o estudo sobre o figurino institucional e a formação de professores realizado por um



                                               - 34 -

Gabinete brasileiro (1ª etapa diagnóstico; 2ª Etapa: Apresentação de uma proposta).

·     Curso à distância em implementação pelo pólo do IP de Mindelo, tendo como público-alvo
professores do EBI da ilha de Santo Antão (4 semestres);

·     Curso presencial em implementação pelos pólos do IP de Praia e Assomada, tendo como
público-alvo professores do EBI da ilha de Santiago;

·     Curso presencial de complemento da 1ª fase de formação em exercício ­ FEPROF, em
implementação pelos três pólos do IP (Praia, Mindelo e Assomada) tendo como público-alvo professores
do EBI das ilhas de Santiago e de S. Vicente.

Uma estratégia de comunicação, incluindo a montagem e operacionalização ( finalizada durante a
vigência do projecto) de um gabinete de comunicação no ME, desenvolvida por uma empresa nacional.

Componente 4. REFORÇO INSTITUCIONAL


4.1 Desenvolvimento Institucional


·     Primeira auto-avaliação das Direcções Gerais, Institutos e Delegações do MEVRH realizada
/relatórios elaborados;
·     Arranque da 2ª auto-avaliação visando novos PMG ainda durante a vigência do projecto.
·     Durante a vigência do projecto, os Planos de Melhoria de Gestão da 1ª auto-avaliação elaborados,
implementados e avaliados.
Programa de formação para a "Capacitação de Dirigentes e Quadros Técnicos do MEVRH", (Plano de
desenvolvimento do pessoal - Staff professional development program) realizada através de um pacote
de formação com nove módulos, envolvendo um total de 120 participantes, concluído.
Esta acção foi objecto de uma avaliação externa que concluiu terem sido atingidos com sucesso, os
objectivos iniciais.
·     Curso de nível superior em Gestão e Planeamento Escolar criado e em implementação no ISE.

SIGE
·     Em concertação com o RAFE num primeiro momento, desenhado e implementado o Sistema de
Informação e Gestão da Educação e posteriormente apoio no desenvolvimento do Sistema Global com o
NOSI.

Conectividade
·     50 computadores entregues a Serviços centrais, Regionais e Escolas para reforço a melhoria do
desempenho.
·     Primeira fase de ligação de Serviços centrais, regionais e locais do ME à Rede do Governo,
concluída.
·     Adquiridos novos equipamentos para a ligação de outros serviços.

Jovens quadros

·     Durante o ano de 2002 foram recrutados, com financiamento do projecto, sete jovens com
formação superior, visando apoiar o MEVRH na solução do grave problema que deriva da falta de



                                                 - 35 -

quadros. Findo o período de contrato a 30 de Junho de 2003, estes jovens, após uma avaliação do seu
desempenho considerada globalmente de muito positiva, foram integrados na Função Pública, (excepção
feita de um JQ) dando assim continuidade a este processo.

Plano Estratégico para a Educação

·     Finalizado o Plano Estratégico (para dez anos) para a Educação

Impacto do Projecto no sector da formação profissional

         O sector da formação profissional dispõe de capacidade técnica para a gestão eficaz dos
programas de formação profissional. Os programas de formação profissional (FAF e Programa de
Aprendizagem) financiados pelo PROMEF foram bem sucedidos. O Governo de Cabo Verde poderá,
eventualmente, continuar estes programas, com financiamento através do OGE (uma linha orçamental
para o efeito foi previsto no projecto de orçamento de investimento para 2005), capitalizando a
experiência e os resultados já alcançados. No entanto, um estudo independente poderá trazer conclusões
e sobretudo recomendações pertinentes visando introduzir um elemento de custo-eficácia nesta área. O
novo quadro legal do sector da formação profissional, preparado e adoptado durante a vigência do
projecto, abre perspectivas para a reorganização do sector.


4.2 Coordenação e gestão do Projecto

         Para além das actividades regulares na Unidade de Coordenação do Projecto, que têm a ver com
os processos de aquisição de bens e serviços, procurou-se e intensificou-se, sobretudo depois da
passagem do IEFP para a tutela do MEVRH, uma melhor interacção das duas vertentes (Formação
Profissional e Educação), em particular nos domínios da confluência entre o Ensino Técnico e a
Formação Profissional, onde os esforços realizados e promovidos pela UCP, DGEBS e pelo IEFP,
precisam de ser continuados e reforçados no sentido de produzirem resultados mais concretos no futuro.

         A articulação com os parceiros da Educação tem sido outra das linhas de actuação da
Coordenação do Projecto, embora se deva reconhecer uma certa quebra nos últimos meses. Foram
desenvolvidas acções ligadas à cooperação com os parceiros do PROMEF, de que se destaca a
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian e outros projectos financiados pelo Banco Mundial (PDSS, PRCSP), no
país e no estrangeiro.

7.       Custos recurrentes criados pelo Projecto no sistema de educação

         Ainda não há custos recorrentes elevados no sistema de formação criados pelo projecto. Estes
custos foram minimizados pela contribuição financeira dos formandos sob a forma de propina, no que
diz respeito às formações de professores já iniciados.

         No entanto, importa alertar o impacte que teria no OGE em geral e no do Ministério em
particular, que uma entrada repentina de um número elevado de professores com formação.

8.        Consequências previsíveis do fim do Projecto sobre as estruturas institucionais criadas

         O PROMEF não terá criado nenhuma estrutura institucional. No entanto, os produtos que
resultaram das actividades do projecto tais como as novas salas de aula, os novos cursos de formação de



                                                 - 36 -

professores, o curso de Gestão e Planeamento em educação, a conectividade instalada e outros, para
além dos benefícios evidentes que trazem, serão, naturalmente acompanhados de um aumento dos gastos
do sector. São contrapartidas da melhoria da qualidade da educação que se espera daí resultem.

9.   Análise crítica da acção do Banco Mundial e do Governo

     Principais decisões que favoreceram a execução do projecto


·    Em 2000 foi criada (de forma informal) o Grupo de Aconselhamento Técnico (GAT) constituído,
inicialmente, por quatro consultores internacionais, especialistas nos domínios da Qualidade da
Educação, Análise Económica e Financeira, Ensino Técnico e Formação Profissional e Avaliação e
Organização Institucionais.

·    Em Fevereiro de 2001, foram estabelecidas re-orientações do Projecto, a partir de um debate em
torno dos seus objectivos, que foram assumidos e socializados com as estruturas dirigentes do MEVRH.
De entre as medidas tomadas, foram estabelecidas medidas de contenção financeira com a AT
internacional, tendo sido re-avaliadas as necessidades em consultoria externa e repensados os níveis e
modalidades de assistência técnica.

        Principais decisões que terão dificultado a execução do projecto

·    A decisão de reduzir os salários dos consultores (nacionais) da UCP e de, ao mesmo tempo,
introduzir o pagamento de impostos teve um impacto negativo na motivação do pessoal afecto à UCP. A
razão que explica esta redução de motivação tem a ver com o facto de se introduzir estas medidas em
contradição com as condições contratuais iniciais, sem que, do lado dos consultores se tenha posto em
causa o princípio do pagamento de impostos pelo cidadãos nacionais.

        Seguimento do projecto pelo Banco Mundial:

                 Mudança de responsáveis. O projecto conheceu dois Coordenadores ao longo da sua
vida. A primeira Coordenadora preparou e negociou o PROMEF e administrou-o desde a entrada em
vigor do crédito em 1999 até Março de 2001, altura em que foi substituída pelo Coordenador que dirigiu
o projecto até Março de 2004. De Março de 2004 as actividades remanescentes do projecto estiveram
sob a responsabilidade de um Assessor do Ministro, antigo consultor do projecto.

                 Missões de seguimento e consultorias. Durante os cerca de quatro anos de vida do
projecto, houve em média duas missões de supervisão por ano. As primeiras missões decorreram num
clima de crispação, fruto de personalidades em presença. No entanto, do ponto de vista técnico foram
extremamente produtivas. As equipas das diferentes missões eram em geral, competentes e asseguraram
uma assistência técnica de qualidade, embora por vezes, algo "paternalistas", paternalismo esse que era,
na maior parte das vezes aceite pelos consultores nacionais responsáveis pelas áreas temáticas.

                 Revisão de meio percurso do Projecto. Uma missão que deveria ter sido marcante para
o projecto e que acabou por não sê-lo foi a Revisão de Meio Percurso que acabou por ser uma mera
missão de supervisão. Um exemplo do fracasso desta RMP foi o facto de uma proposta de Revisão
orçamental apresentada pela parte nacional não ter sido analisada acabando por se criar uma situação de
impasse. De adiamentos em adiamentos esta questão só seria retomada e resolvida com o novo Task
Manager, mais de um ano depois.



                                                - 37 -

Apreciação da acção do Governo durante a execução do projecto:

         Principais decisões que favoreceram a execução do projecto

·    A organização de um "Workshop Criação de Consensos nos domínios da Educação e
Formação" de 22 a 24 de Março de 2000 foi uma iniciativa capital pois permitiu descodificar o
projecto que era considerado muito complexo e muito ambicioso. Também permitiu uma maior
apropriação e assumpção por parte da equipa encarregada da sua implementação.

·    A decisão de se fazer uma reflexão sobre o projecto e nomeadamente sobre algumas opções
estratégicas relativas à Assistência Técnica o que levou à sua redução e a uma maior prestação
nomeadamente na área da construção escolar.

·    A decisão de se assinar um contrato com a AGECABO com a delegação de dono de obra para a
construção da segunda leva de salas de aula. Apesar de alguns atrasos, a qualidade das obras melhorou.

·    No início do projecto houve algum atraso no desembolso de fundos de contrapartida nacional,
problema que tornou a surgir já no fim do projecto. Estes casos não tiveram uma influência negativa
digna de relevo.

·    Durante a vigência do projecto, o Ministério viveu uma mudança de governo na sequência das
eleições legislativas de Janeiro de 2005 e cinco mudanças de titulares da pasta da Educação: No entanto
não se pode afirmar que estas sucessivas mudanças tenham tido um impacto negativo na implementação
do projecto, apesar de alguma perturbação vivida pelo projecto, no início da sua vida. A integração da
formação profissional no MEVRH deveria ter sido uma mais valia para este sub-sector e para a
educação.

10. Lições aprendidas

·    O relacionamento entre o Banco Mundial e o Governo (Ministério) em geral foram boas. Se se
pode considerar que a eficácia caracterizou o relacionamento entre as duas partes em presença, em
geral, o mesmo não se poderá dizer no que diz respeito aos primeiros 18 meses de vida do projecto, onde
prevaleceu alguma crispação.

·    O Banco Mundial nunca explicita quais são as atribuições e mandatos dos Task Managers, o que
tem sido e foi no caso do PROMEF causa de mal-entendidos desnecessários. O novo Manager (sediado
em Washington) trouxe alguma clarificação o que teve como consequência uma nítida melhoria neste
particular. Por outro lado os quadros nacionais (do projecto propriamente dito e das estruturas do
Ministério) terão por vezes entrado neste jogo ambíguo, algo perturbador do bom andamento do
projecto.

·    É necessário que em situações futuras, as atribuições e mandatos dos diferentes actores fique bem
claro. Isto é válido sobretudo para o Banco mas é-o também para a parte nacional e para o sucesso dos
diferentes empreendimentos que são financiados com crédito desta honrosa instituição.

·    Alguns dirigentes não terão assumido por inteiro a sua responsabilidade em relação ao projecto o
que dificultou e atrasou a excentralização. No entanto e sobretudo após o período de reflexão e as



                                                 - 38 -

decisões dela saídas, essa assumpção melhorou sem chegar a atingir níveis desejáveis. Algumas
actividades eram consideradas "estranhas" à instituição, apesar de organicamente serem da
responsabilidade de uma ou outra instituição. A recomendação tem sido sempre ao longo do projecto no
sentido de se fortalecer as diferentes estruturas e desenvolver as actividades dentro dessas estruturas e
sob a responsabilidade técnica e administrativa da instituição em questão e seus dirigentes e técnicos.

·    A estrutura de coordenação do projecto (UCP) mostrou ser suficientemente sólida, apesar de
alguns reajustamentos efectuados. Os políticos souberam respeitar, minimamente, a instituição e o
espírito do Acordo de Crédito assinado não tendo efectuado "incursões" nem intervenções na gestão do
projecto.

·    Este projecto foi financiado por um crédito de valor elevado para um país pequeno como Cabo
Verde. O impacte final das acções desenvolvidas deverá ser efectuada num futuro não muito longíquo,
para se poder tirar ilações mais fundamentadas. No entanto, fica quase uma certeza que se deveria ter
optado, à partida, por uma execução completamente excentralizada, isto é, executada pelos serviços
competentes do Ministério com a presença física da assistência técnica que trabalhou na UCP. Isto não
foi conseguido por razões que decorrem de alguma fragilidade institucional e de conflitos de interesse.

·    A questão da perenização e da capacidade sectorial ou das instituições em assumir, ex post, os
produtos e ganhos obtidos com um empreendimento desta natureza devem ser bem ponderados antes.
Não o sendo o risco de se produzir elefantes brancos é real e o Plano Estratégico elaborado com apoio
do PROMEF pode ser um exemplo.

·    Os pressupostos para a continuidade e perenização plena dos objectivos do projecto que foram
identificados continuam na ordem do dia: a constituição no MEVRH de um quadro de pessoal estável,
competente e motivado; o garante de uma memória institucional sem rupturas; a apropriação e
perenização dos conhecimentos, instrumentos e modelos de planificação e gestão adoptados ao longo do
processo de reestruturação do sistema.

·    Ultrapassada a fase de internalização, a convergência das preocupações continua a incidir na
perenidade das acções construídas pelo PROMEF. Quem? Como? Com que recursos edificar, dar
continuidade ao que foi pensado, planeado, testado e validado? As perguntas a estas questões (já
levantadas durante a Revisão a Meio Percurso, em Outubro de 2001) continuam a constituir matéria de
planificação, a ser considerada dentro do quadro das acções do Ministério, após o fecho do projecto.




                                                 - 39 -

- 40 -

