Report No. PID9400
Project Name                     Cape Verde-Education and Training...
Consolidation and Modernization
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Education
Project                          CVPE55468
Borrower(s)                      Government of Cape Verde
Implementing Agency              Vice Prime Minister's Office- Project
Coordination Unit
Contact person: Ms. Esther Sequeira,
Project Coordinator
Phone (238) 61-43-99
Fax (238) 61-44-49
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 12, 1998
Project Appraisal                January 23, 1999
Projected Board Date             March 30, 1999
Background
1. Country and Sector Background
Acceding late to independence (1972), Cape Verde is characterized by an
embryonic education and training system. Its first priorities (the design of a
basic education program, the training of teachers, the development of
workforce development programs) have been implemented successfully.
Pre-school coverage through the private sector providers extends to 40 per
cent (mainly non-poor and urban) of the population. The poor and the rural,
notably the 40 per cent of households headed by single women, are excluded.
Programs range from basic day care to organized, pedagogical programs.
Preliminary evidence, however, points to higher success in formal school for
those attending. In the longer run, this will deepen social and economic
differences.
Primary education was extended in 1994 from four to six years. Participation
in the primary grades has grown rapidly to over 100 percent gross enrollment
rate, temporarily outstripping the demand for teachers in primary grades.
Internal efficiency has also improved significantly. With the expansion of
primary education, new problems have emerged: increased budgetary expenses,
especially for salaries; a high percentage of unqualified teachers,
difficulties in school/ community relations (many parents have never attended
school and feel ill at ease in dealing with teachers and principals). On the
other hand, some long-standing difficulties continue to present a challenge to
education managers. These include: the small size of many isolated, island
schools; the difficulty of ensuring pedagogical support and upgrading of
skills over distance; cultural problems and language (Creole is the mother
tongue for most children); and the need to reinforce Portuguese, sciences,
math and education for citizenship participation.



Secondary Education: School children between grades 7 and 11 number 25,000
with about 1100 in the 12th grade (preparatory year for university) at the
Mindelo and Praia lycees. These lycees are attended by students who wish to
pursue higher education abroad (in particular Portugal and Brazil ) or attend
local higher education institutes. The last three years are not provided by
all schools. Some provide teaching up to grade 10; others to grade 11. Only
two lycees offer 12th grade. Students completing this grade can apply to
certain universities in Brazil. The size of the lycees varies from 3000 plus
enrollments in the two lycees mentioned above to about 500, with the majority
enrolling too few students to offer a full range of specialized courses. The
promotion rate from 6th to 7th grade (first year of lower secondary) is
already about 80%-. Consequently, the gradual improvement of promotion rates
in primary school and the decision to expand mandatory schooling to the 9th
grade (the end of the first cycle of secondary school in most countries) will
place extraordinary pressures on secondary education. In view of the
embryonic state of secondary education's development and the imminent
enrollment pressures it faces.
Post-secondary education consists of university study abroad (characterized by
poor quality, lack of coherence with national priorities, and an inefficient
dispersion of students across some 28 countries). Locally, several isolated
sector-specific institutes (a business school; a maritime academy;
agriculture/forestry and secondary teacher training) have, with the exception
of teacher training, saturated their job markets and are unable to respond to
the changing needs of business, government or individuals.
Labor force development: A representative governing council (enterprises,
unions, government) has been established, and successful demand-driven
training and apprenticeship programs are now in their third year of
operation. The training programs financed by the current project and paid for
in part by businesses, appear cost-effective and are in demand. Other programs
addressing unemployment leave considerable doubt as to their cost-
effectiveness and benefits.    Current programs have already laid the
foundations for training and apprenticeship systems and for employment
services. Although initial results seem satisfactory, much remains to be done
with regard to the definition of policies and the improvement of program
quality, especially in the following areas: (i) strengthening consultative
and collaborative arrangements with enterprises, the unions, and government,
(ii) transferring the financial burden of high demand programs to beneficiary
firms and agencies; (iii) take careful stock of active labor market programs
addressing unemployment, assessing their cost-effectiveness and economic
benefits so as (iv) to re-allocating budget resources and staff to the more
efficient programs.
Cape Verde is well-placed to develop its education/training system on the
basis of these initial "building blocks". Given the current, embryonic
state of the system, Cape Verde is not handicapped by investments sunk in
long-established programs which now lack relevance but whose inflexibility (in
terms of plant, personnel) stands in the way of budget re-allocation. It can
design new programs which are cost-effective, reflecting best practice. The
growing desire of civic society to participate in educational governance
promises strong support for these important changes, providing mechanisms for
consultation are established.
-2-



2. Objectives
The consolidation of reforms in primary education (grades 1-6) and in work
force development (demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs). The
design and testing of cost-effective program options for the medium term
development of the education/training system. The project will prepare the
blueprints for a multi-year development program (FY2001 APL).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA has been asked by Government to play an active role among the donors
providing leadership on education and training. Sound working relations with
the three key ministries has established in the context of the ongoing project
of education and training which is being implemented on schedule. Given its
assistance to Cape Verde in the areas of public investment and expenditure
management, IDA is consequently well-placed to help Cape Verde develop an
education/training system consonant with its growth perspectives and budgetary
capacity. That challenge will require careful examination of the cost-
effectiveness of alternative options at all levels of the system.
IDA's role in disseminating educational research and best practice in the
areas of policy, curriculum and methods, will help inform this decision
process. During preparation, the responsible ministers participated in an in-
house seminar which enabled them to tap bank expertise on Cape Verde's main
sectoral issues.
4. Description
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    CONSOLIDATION OF REFORMS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION AND
LABOR FORCE TRAINING
1.      Integrated Basic Education (Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and
Sport-MECJD):
Provision of infrastructure and pedagogic support to consolidate the
nationwide introduction of universal and compulsory primary education (grades
1-6) through:
(a)     Completion of the classroom construction plan begun under the
previous project (Cr. 2675), including the construction and furnishing of
approximately 60 classrooms in cluster schools.
(b)     Providing updated textbooks and manuals to all students with cost-
sharing and subsidies, by including provision of technical assistance for
management of the textbook fund (FEE) and the publication of updated primary
textbooks and teacher manuals.
2.      Training and Apprenticeship (Ministry of Employment and Training-
MEFIS):
The consolidation of current reforms introduced by the Borrower to
increase the skill level and productivity of entrants to the education work
- 3 -



force through:
(a)     Provision of bridge financing of   the Training Support Fund (FPEF)
and apprenticeship programs for an additional two years (1999, 2000) to permit
the further development of cost-sharing by beneficiary entities and the design
of subsidies through the (i) financing of the FPEF to provide support to
enterprise-based, on-the-job training and demand- driven training programs in
public, private and non governmental organizations' training centers of at
least xxxx trainees; (ii) improving apprenticeship training of at least xxxx
apprentices, and (iii) financing the management and supervision for the
training and programs referred to in (a) (i) and (ii) above and provision of
specialist consultants' services for the IEFP (including those of senior
personnel)
(b)     Provision of technical assistance to evaluate the ongoing active
and passive labor market programs including the employment services to
determine their cost-effectiveness.
(c)     Upgrade of the functioning and policy conception capacity of the
National Advisory Council on Employment and Training (CNEF), and the Executive
Committee (CA) of the FPEF, including technical assistance, workshops and
seminars.
Part B:    DEVELOPMENT OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEMS
1.      Development of Institutional Capacity:
Strengthening the Borrower's existing capacity to develop (i) economic
analysis, (ii) educational and training planning and (iii) policy formulation
capacities, through the provision of:
(a)     Specialists to reinforce the planing units of the Vice Prime
Minister's Office, Ministry of Education and Ministry of Employment;
(b)     Surveys,  field work and workshops;
(c)     The operation of the coordinating bodies in the Vice Prime
Minister's Office (including a Project Coordinator and staff for carrying out
accounting and auditing services); the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth
and Sport (including the education coordinator and operating costs), and, in
the Ministry of Labor and Training (including the training component
coordinators and operating costs).
(d)     The establishment of an international steering committee and
mechanisms for consultation with stakeholders including technical assistance
and travel costs.
2.      Program Design, piloting and implementation planning
Design, piloting and prepare implementation plans of cost-effective
program options for the further development of the education system as
follows:
(a)     Pre-school including an (i) inventory of the existing pre-school
network; (ii) assessment of the direct and indirect costs to parents; (iii)
the piloting of new approaches to teaching including the transition from
Creole to Portuguese; (iv) the assessment of current and/or exploration of new
programs targeting 0-3 year age group; and, (v) information campaigns and
- 4 -



periodic technical assistance on child growth and development specialists.
(b)     Primary education including a (i) review of the teaching corps,
(ii) a beneficiary assessment addressed to parents; (iii) field testing of
multi-grade teaching in small, isolated island schools; (iv) field testing of
distance learning methods as a tool for upgrading teachers' skills; (v)
explore the feasibility of teaching English and French; and, (vi) explore
school health & nutrition programs improvement.
(c)     Secondary education including: (i) field testing of the
organization and operation of selected grade 1-9 cluster schools; (ii)
pedagogical survey (curriculum; teachers; didactic materials) in secondary
schools; (iii) simulations of student flows an assessment of the financial
implications and logistics; (iv) the updating of the school map, (v) a skill/
knowledge inventory of grade 11 and 12 completers and a comparison of students
in grade 12 with their European counterparts.
(d)     Post-secondary education including (i) feasibility studies and
financial implications of different choices for Higher Education in Cabo
Verde; (ii) a survey of studies abroad and a feasibility study to negotiate
multi-year agreements with a few selected overseas universities to improve the
effectiveness of the government/donor financed scholarship program; (iii) a
feasibility study of the consolidation of the existing tertiary institutions
already existent in the country.
5.  Financing                    Total ( US$m)
Government                       0.6
IBRD                             N/A
IDA                              6.0
Total Project Cost               6.6
6. Implementation
Implementation period:   Four years, mid-1999 through mid-2003.
Executing agencies: Vice Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Education,
Science, Youth & Sports (MECJD) and Ministry of Employment, Training and
Social Integration (MEFSI).
Project components will be directly executed by the following agencies:
Consolidation of Integrated Basic Education:
Existing Departments within the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth & Sports
(MECJD)-- Administration Department for school infrastructure; the Pedagogic
Institute for pre-service teacher training, the Education Department for
policy implementation and coordination of regional delegates and school
directors. Overall coordination will continue under the responsibility of the
education component coordinator as it has been shown to be effective.
Consolidation of Training and Employment:
The training and employment component will be the responsibility of the
Institute for Employment and Training (IET) in the MEFIS. The Training
Support Fund (TSF) will be overseen by the Executive Committee (EC) and
administered by the Training Component Coordinator with technical support
- 5 -



provided by the IET, but financial management will be ensured by the PCU.
Overall coordination will continue under the responsibility of the training
component coordinator.
Development and Modernization:
Ministry of Education: The planning unit will play a major role, jointly with
various MECJD Departments, in the process of identification of options for
sector development, data collection and data analysis, simulations, testing
and preparation of implementation plans.
Specific MECJD Departments (Pre-school, Basic, Secondary and Higher Education;
Infrastructure and Human Resources Management; Pedagogical and Teacher
Training Institutes; The Cape Verde Institute for Social Action-ICASE), will
participate actively in the identification process and follow-up of testing
and production of implementation plans.
Ministry of Employment and Training: the planning unit will play a major role
in orientating training and employment policy framework activities and in
assessing employment services.
Project coordination: The project will be coordinated by the Office of the
Vice Prime Minister through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) assisted by
sector coordinators. The same PCU that successfully coordinated the
implementation of the ongoing IDA-supported Basic Education and Training
Project will be responsible for the coordination of the proposed project, and
current management and coordination arrangements will continue.
Project oversight: Steering Committee. To integrate recent world experiences
in reforms, Government will appoint a steering committee composed of
international leaders in education management, planning and economics from
public administration, international development agencies or universities.
The committee would be entrusted with the task of advising the two ministries
and their joint team and providing guidance for the national conference.
7. Sustainability
The project will develop the implementation plans for the development and
modernization of the system which will be supported by the planned APL
(FY2001). Thus, it is vital that proposed changes in curricula, methods, and
program participation be tested as to their medium to long term sustainability
under the macro-economic scenarios currently envisaged by the Country
Development Strategy. To that end, an economic analysis team will be attached
to the Vice Prime Minister's Office under existing coordinating arrangements,
charged with assessment of the cost/benefits and financial sustainability of
the program proposals put forward by the two technical ministries. This team
will participate in public investment and expenditure reviews. To ensure that
international experience informs ongoing development work, a steering
committee of internationally reputed experts will provide a sounding board
relative to key decisions and advise on the organization and implementation of
programs. To ensure that cost-effectiveness and financing constraints are
respected in determining which programs should be piloted with a view to
their being eventually brought to scale, the planning units of the two
technical ministries will also be strengthened in terms of economic analysis.
- 6 -



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Implementation of the ongoing project has been excellent, with disbursements
outstripping projections. The project has provided full access to 1-6 primary
education and has made significant progress in improving its quality through
provision of better trained teachers, textbooks and teacher guides. It has
also laid the foundation for a flexible, demand-driven training system through
the implementation of a training fund and an effective apprenticeship scheme,
enabling a rapid response to private sector training needs, especially
important, given increasing foreign investment. The most important lesson
learned has been the need to educate and involve the public in educational
development. Two examples will suffice: multigrade teaching (essential in
many of the small island schools) was deemed by parents to be of lower quality
(contrary to research findings) than traditional, age-specific classrooms; the
national training council (representatives of employers, unions, government)
which is responsible for training and labor market policies has not functioned
appropriately because its members neither recognized their important
institutional responsibilities nor enjoyed the full support of their
respective constituencies. This situation seems attributable to a
traditionally passive expectation that government provides and decides. In
both cases, a participatory approach aiming at educating and involving the
protagonists would have led to more reasonable expectations. Another major
lesson is that the design and implementation of programs must take into
account the smallness of the economy, the physical dispersion of this island
country and the consequent difficulty of obtaining economies of scale. For
example, the model of secondary education (implemented in two high schools on
a pilot basis) which aims at providing technical skill training as an option,
faces the constraint of a small labor market where the only constants are the
difficulty of predicting skill requirements and a changing technological
environment. Ironically, the high costs of investment and operation render the
pilot schools incapable of responding to change. Nor is it feasible to offer a
wide range of secondary subjects taught by specialized teachers. The variable
size and the isolation of many high schools requires that even to provide a
modest range of course offerings, teachers must be "polyvalent" (teaching at
least two subjects) and in some cases that subjects be taught via distance
learning (video-conferencing, interactive computer-based instruction and
television).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: As a Category C project, not only does this operation not present
any environmental risks, but will contribute to improving environmental
awareness and care through general textbooks and teacher training . Schools
will be built according to acceptable standards and environmental norms. Most
classrooms will simply be added to existing schools. The strengthening of
integrated science teaching in lower secondary school will provide all school
children with a window on their environment and on ways to protect it.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Adriana Jaramillo
The World Bank
-7-



1818 H Street, NW
Room J9-088
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-4027
Fax:   (202) 473-8216
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
- 8 -



