Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18581-CV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.5 MILLION (US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR AN
EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION
AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
April 30, 1999
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$1                      94.515 CVE effectiveApril 16, 1999
FISCAL YEAR               SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31    October-June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
CA           ComissdoAdministrativa do FPEF (FPEF Executive Committee)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CNEF         Conselho Nacional do Emprego e Forma,cdo Profissional do MvEFIS, (National Advisory
Council for Employment and Training)
CY           Calendar year
DA           Servi,o responsavel pela gestao dos recursos humano, meteriais e fmanceiros (MECJD Administrative
Department)
DGESC        Servi,o responsavel pelo Ensino Superior (MECJD Higher Education Department)
DGEBS        Servi,o responsavel pela orientacao pedag6gica no ensino preescolar, basico e secundario. (MEN
General Education Department)
EU           European Union
ETS          Education/ Training System
FCG          FundaVdo Calouste Gulbenkian, (Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation)
FEE          Fundo de Edi,cao de X-anuais Escolares do MECJD, (Textbooks Revolving Fund)
FPEF         Fundo de Promo,do do Emprego e Formaqdo do MEFIS (Training Support Fund)
GEDS         Servi,o responsavel pela planifica,co e estudos do MfEFIS (Planning Unit)
GEDSE        Servi,o responsavel pelos estudos e planifica,co educativa do MECJD (Planing Unit)
GNP          Gross National Product
ICASE        Instituto responsaivelpela execufdo da politica social no AMJECJD ( Institute for Student Assistance)
ICB          International competitive bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education and Communication programs
IEFP         Instituto responscivel pelos programas de Emprego e Forma ,co Profissional do MEFIS (Employment
and Training Institute)
IP           Insfituto responsavel pelaforma,cdo de professores de Pre-escolar e Ensino Basico do AMECJD
(Preschool and Primary Education Teacher Training Insfitute)
ISE          Instituto responsdvel pelaforma,do de professores de Ensino Secundirio (MECJD Secondary
Teacher Training Institute)
MECJD       MWinist&rio responsavel pela Educa,do (Ministry of Education)
MEFIS        M1inisterio responsdvel pelo Emprego e Forma,do (Ministry of Employment & T raining)
MERCOSUR  Iviercado Comun del Sur (trade arrangement among some Southern Latin American countries)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFTA        North American Free Trade Agreement
NCB          National competitive bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental organizations
OVPM         Office of the Vice Prime Minister
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Unidade Coordenadora do Projecto do OVPM (Project Coordinating Unit)
PEBF         Projecto de Educa,cdo de Base e Forma,cdo (PEBF) (Basic Education and Training Project)
PDRH         Programa de Desenvolvimento dos Recursos Humanos (Human Resource Development Program)
PIC          Project Implementation committee
PIP          Public investment Program
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SY           School Year
TA           Technical assistance
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:               Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:         Nicholas R. Burnett
Core Team:              Carmen E. Perez-Castano, Task Team Leader



Republic of Cape Verde
Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data
A.  Project Development Objective .................................................................                                      .2
1. Project Development Objective*: ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ...................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by project ..........................................                               3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the program  and strategic choices .........................................................7
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................8
1. Project components .................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................................................9
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................................9
4. Institutional and implementation anrangements .................................................................. 10
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                                             12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................................................................     12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                                                    .       .     13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .................................................................    15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................................                                   15
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................................. 15
E. Summary Project Analyses  ................................................................. 16
1. Economic ..................................................................                                                                        16
2. Financial  ..................................................................                                                                      16
3. Technical ..................................................................                                                                       17
4. Institutional ..................................................................                                                                   17
5. Social ..................................................................                                                                          18
6. Environmental Assessment ........................................... .                                                  .................... 18
7. Participatory Approach ..................................................................                                                            9
F. Sustainability  and Risks ....................                 .............................................. 19
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                                  19
2. Critical Risks .................................................................                                                                   20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................                                                   20
G. Main  Credit Conditions .................................................................                       ..21
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................                                                        21
2. Other ................................................................. .                                                                          21
H.  Readiness for Implementation .................................................................                    ..                                            21
Compliance with  Bank Policies ................................................................... 21
List of Annexes:
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary
Annex 2              Letter of Policy
Annex 3.             Detailed Project Description
Annex 4.    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5.    Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 6.    Financial Summary
Annex 7.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 8.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.    Documents in Project File
Annex 10.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.   Country at a Glance
MAP                  IBRD 30037



Cape Verde
Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC14
Date: April 30, 1999                                Team Leader: Carmen E. Perez-Castafio
Country Director: Malumood A. Ayub                  Sector Manager: Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: CV-PE-55468                             Sector: EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Theme(s): Education/Training
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data
I[] Loan    [X1 Credit       [] Grant      [ Guarantee       1] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$6.03m): SDR 4.5 million
Proposed terms:    n To be defined      [XJ Multicurrency      [] Single currency
[X] Standard Variable   [] Fixed             [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):        10
Years to maturity:          40
Commitment fee:         Standard IDA
Service charge:              0.75%
Govemment                                                 0.24             0.48               0.72
IDA                                                       3.17             2.86              6.03
Other: Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation- Portugal             -              0.61               0.61
Total:                                                    3.41             3.95               7.36
Borrower: Government of Cape Verde
Guarantor: Same
Responsible agency(ies): Office of the Vice Prime Minister, Ministry of Education, and, Ministry of Employment and
Training
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual                               1.70         2.45         1.05        0.83
Cumulative                               1.70        4.15         5.20        6.03
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 10, 1999      Expected closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: Project Coordination Unit
Contact person: Ester Sequeira, PCU Coordinator
Address: Praia, Cape Verde
Tel: (238) 61-43-99           Fax: (238) 61-44-49           E-mail: pebf(&,mail.cvtelecom.cv



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 2 of 21
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The Development Objective of the Education and Training Program is to develop a technically
and financially sustainable education and training system which will ensure an educated and
flexible work force responding to Cape Verde's social and economic goals.
This project is an extension of the earlier Basic Education and Training Project--Projecto de
Educa9do de Base e Forma,ao (PEBF) Cr. 2675-CV. The purpose of the PEBF was to ensure
that the education and training systems relate to the needs of the labor market in Cape Verde. As
such, it sought to create a solid basic education program available to all children and to create
better linkages between vocational training and job opportunities. Under the PEBF, the primary
school system was extended from 4 to 6 years, and a vocational training fund was established. In
spite of impressive achievements, however, issues of quality, equity, and efficiency persist in
basic education. Furthernore, the education system as a whole is growing rapidly and needs to be
organized in a coherent and sustainable fashion. New vocational training approaches which will
help the training and apprenticeship programs make the transition toward enhanced cost-sharing
by the beneficiaries need to be explored.
The project objectives are: (i) to maintain and consolidate the recent reforms in primary education
(grades 1-6) and in demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs initiated under the PEBF
and; (ii) to assist the Govermment in carrying out a comprehensive sector study, addressing issues
of quality and equity, in order to identify cost-effective options for the sustainable development of
the education/ training system (ETS) through the medium term. The project will also provide the
underpinnings for a human resource development program which the Government intends to
launch in 2001 with broad donor support.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Basic education component indicators include: 94% net enrolment rate in primary education,
student achievement in key subjects (85% pass rate in grade 6 exam) and the rate of 90% of
students with books, maintained; current rule governing repetition in grades 2,4,6 modified;
Textbooks Fund-- Fundo de Edi9do de Manuais Escolares (FEE) management strengthened; 60
classrooms constructed according to national standards ready for SY 2000-01; 510,000 textbooks
and teacher guides produced and distributed by the end of the project.
Training/Apprenticeship Programs indicators include: the number of demand driven training
programs; annual increases in client financing; the number of skilled workers and apprentices
trained annually
Sector studies indicators include: the qualitative assessment for pre-school, primary, secondary
and higher education completed, the internal efficiency and sector financial reviews on schedule,
the review of new curricula proposals on schedule and, training and employment center programs
evaluated, by 2001.
Field-testing/Dissemination indicators include: proposals for field-testing meet agreed criteria;
field tests evaluated and results disseminated to beneficiaries and stakeholders.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 3 of 21
Capacity Building indicators are: timely completion of the institutional assessments of the
Ministry of Education -- Ministerio responsdvel pela Educa,co (MEJCD) and Ministry of
Employment and Training --Ministeio responsavelpelo Emprego e Forma,do (MEFIS)
and development of a related capacity-building plan.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number:            Report No. 17206-CV, dated December 1, 1997
Date of latest CAS discussion:  December 23, 1997
The proposed project is fully consistent with the International Development Association (IDA)
Country Assistance Strategy for Cape Verde, which rests on three broad pillars: (i) achieving a
viable and stable macroeconomic framework; (ii) consolidating policy reforms in support of
private sector development; and (iii) supporting human resource development and poverty
alleviation. Over the next twenty years, Cape Verde's vision is of a service-based economy at the
Atlantic crossroads of major markets, notably Europe, North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) and the Mercado Comun del Sur (MERCOSUR), providing offshore capacity in
financial and information services, air and sea transport, light industry and tourism. Cape Verde
has limited natural resources and minimal sporadic rainfall, so development of its main resource -
its people - into an educated and flexible workforce is crucial to achieving that vision.
Government plans to initiate a ten year Human Resource Development Program -Programa de
Desenvolvimento dos Recursos Humanos (PDRH) beginning 2001 to implement this strategy.
The proposed project will help plan this program.
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background Cape Verde has succeeded in putting in place the foundations of the education
system which is now growing rapidly as a result of high social demand. Its first priorities, the
design of a basic education program, the training of teachers and the design of workforce
development programs were supported by the previous project, the Primary Education Upgrading
Project (Cr. 1853-CV), and the ongoing Basic Education Project (Cr.2675-CV). The latter is
being implemented successfully and meeting the development objectives satisfactorily, with
about 90% of project funds (US$ 9 million) disbursed or committed by December 31, 1998. The
integrated basic education reform has now been implemented nationwide, and all schools offer
the new curriculum for grades 1-6 and are organized in a more efficient structure of clusters, with
central ("polo") schools linked to neighboring satellite schools. Enrollments in primary (grades
1-6) are almost 100 per cent, with gender parity. Efficiency indicators have shown improvement,
repetition rates have decreased from 20% (SY 92/93) to 14% (SY96/97). Access to textbooks is
high (90% of the school children have access to textbooks), and all "polo" schools have teacher
guides. Teacher training has made considerable progress - 83% of the teachers have attended in-
service teacher training. Demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs have operated
successfully for three years guided by consultative policy bodies which represent the interests of
business, Government and the unions. The efficiency of vocational training has improved. The
mid-term review and a recent technical audit found that at least 80% of employers consider the
programs have improved the productivity of their workers.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemizafion
Page 4 of 21
The Sector Policy Letter (Annex 2) provides an overview of sector issues and identifies strategies
for addressing them. The overriding issue which threatens the sustainable development of the
ETS is the lack of a comprehensive knowledge base for planning. The rapid expansion of the
system requires that future growth be planned in a coherent fashion, with program choices based
on cost-effectiveness and budget allocations based on identified priorities, and sustainable over
the long term. The proposed comprehensive sector study will provide that knowledge base while
developing capacity on the job, in planning, management and economic analysis.
a) Pre-school has developed rapidly following its liberalization by the Law. Overall coverage is
about 60 % although island and inter-island disparities exist (Boa Vista has almost complete
enrollment, while Sao Nicolao has only 38% enrollment). The providers include: municipalities,
45 %; Non-Governmental organizations (NGOs) and community-based organizations, 32 %;
private operators 8 %; religious groups, 8 %; and public institutions, 7 %. Parental motivation
comes from the legal provision that children can enter primary school early if they have attended
pre-school and from the fact that enrollment of children into pre-school programs enables women
to work. Issues. The primary issues are equity and quality. The poor and rural dwellers cannot
afford to pay and women heading single parent families (38% of all families) are particularly
disadvantaged. A recent assessment of pre-schools supported by the Calouste Gulbenkian
Foundation-- FundaVdo Calouste Gulbenkian --(FCG) a Portugal-based non-profit institution
found that: (i) most pre-school staff have no training, their typical education level is grade 6, and
their command of Portuguese is poor; (ii) the pre-school is a poor learning environment - there
are no teacher guides, books or other materials and children are rarely engaged in learning
activities; (iii) facilities are often unhygienic and cramped. Strategy. Government recognizes that
pre-school is a sound investment - repetition and drop-out rates in primary school are lower for
children who attend an organized modem pre-school and there are other long-term benefits
associated with early health care interventions. Govermment plans to leave the initiative to the
current providers while seeking to improve (i) equity, by considering ways and means of
promoting the participation of poor families; (ii) quality, through pedagogical support services
(training, on-site advice and access to learning materials); and (iii) sanitation, by setting and
enforcing standards.
b) Primary education was extended in 1994 from four to six years. The gross enrollment rate for
primary grades has grown rapidly to over 100 percent. The challenge is to improve quality and
efficiency, through adequate budgetary allocations, while maintaining equity in the face of the
rapid expansion of secondary education which puts pressure on the Government budget, on
available resources (teachers, facilities) and on family budgets. Quality issues include: (i) children
experience learning difficulties in language due to the transition from Creole (spoken at home) to
Portuguese (used in school); (ii) evaluatior. of student learning is available for math and
Portuguese but a system of feedback to the school is lacking; (iii) teachers: about 17 % of the
teachers are untrained and have a poor command of Portuguese; and (iv) the best trained teachers
from the upper grades are being attracted to the rapidly expanding lower secondary grades by
higher salaries. There are two main efficiency issues: (i) a promotion policy which causes a high
repetition rate in grades 2, 4 and 6 and is expensive in terms of per pupil annual costs and per
graduate costs, creating a greater demand for teachers while doing little to improve achievement;
(ii) uneconomically small classes reflecting the municipalities' desire to create jobs in teaching.
With regard to the recurrent budget, about 88% of the per pupil cost of Esc. 16,5 00 (US$ 170
equivalent) goes for salaries, with the remaining 12 % shared between books, didactic materials
and school meals. There is the danger that the salary escalation factors (due to built-in promotion
practices) compounded by the new budget pressures stemming from secondary school expansion,
will crowd out the current, modest amount available for the non-salary expenditures which are



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 5 of 21
crucial to ensuring quality. Strategy. Government plans to continue the pedagogical and
infrastructure support initiated under the current project to provide basic inputs by supporting
additional school places, and textbooks and teacher guides, by strengthening the Textbooks
Fund's management. It will also carry out an in-depth evaluation of primary education under the
sector study, examining the inputs influencing school perfonnance, in-school factors and
processes and outcomes (see Annex 3 2.1) as well as an assessment of the pedagogical institute
(the IP) and of the teaching corps. This qualitative assessment will be complemented by
analytical studies addressing financial and internal efficiency issues. In the light of these
assessments, different delivery models for primary education will be explored as well as cost-
effective measures for strengthening curriculum relevance i.e. teaching of languages, science,
math and computer skills.
c) Lower Secondary Education. Until SY1997, lower secondary education (grades 7-9) was not
offered in all municipalities and students often had to go to other islands. Now, rapid expansion is
underway and a decision extending compulsory education to grade 9 is under consideration, as
well as the development of new curricula. Issues: Teachers must be trained for grades 7-9 to
counter the displacement of primary teachers. The proposals for new subjects (introduction to
computers, French, English) have not been evaluated in terms of costs, teachers and instructional
time requirements. The profile of the grade 9 school-leaver has still to be defined, also the
articulation between the primary, lower and upper secondary programs in tenns of curriculum and
objectives. Strategy: Government plans to: assess the technical and financial feasibility of
extending compulsory education to grade 9; review the adequacy of the articulation between
primary and secondary levels in light of this expansion; and assess new curricula proposals in
terms of their feasibility.
d) Upper secondary education. Government currently operates general secondary schools based
on a model supported by the African Development Bank (AfDB). Another project, financed by
the European Union (EU), aims at piloting a low-cost approach to technical secondary education.
More recently, a third model - technical/vocational secondary education with some seven areas of
specialization - has been launched with financing from Luxembourg and Portugal for four of the
six planned schools. This type of school will eventually provide some 10,000 places i.e. about 25
percent of projected secondary enrollments. Issues. The principal issue is the lack of a coherent
strategy for secondary school development which takes into account budgetary constraints, the
local job market and international experience. None of the three models of secondary education
has been evaluated although some serious problems are evident: (i) the teaching of general
secondary subjects is under-funded - most parents can afford only the key textbooks for
Portuguese and math so students must copy the texts from the blackboard; (ii) teaching resources
which should be concentrated on core subjects are dispersed over a wide menu of specialized
subjects such as law and philosophy; (iii) science and technology teaching is weak (laboratories
and workshops are not used effectively). The future operation of the new technical/vocational
schools already promises to be difficult. In order to staff technical subjects, physics and math
teachers from the general secondary program are being re-trained overseas as technical instructors,
weakening the teaching of these core subjects still fiurther. A preliminary estimate suggests the
operating costs of these schools may be up to thirty percent more costly than those of the general
secondary schools 1. Finally, a key question is whether new technical and vocational subjects are
l The stated (and understandable) goal of the new program is to change parental attitudes, from a bias in
favor of "white collar" education and employment towards technical and vocational skills and jobs. It is
also expected that secondary technicalJvocational schools will increase employment opportunities for
youths. However, experience suggests that the market place, not the school, has the comparative advantage



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 6 of 21
a priority when improvements are urgently needed in the teaching of general subjects. Strategy:
Government intends to conduct an evaluation of science and math instruction in secondary
schools and to review technical education, examining its internal and external efficiency. With
regard to the new secondary technical/vocational schools (which are not yet in operation), the
evaluation will: (i) estimate the costs of the different input factors (teachers - technical,
science/math, general, in-service training, didactic materials, equipment replacement and repair,
consumables) over a five-year period of operation, in order to quantify their budgetary impact;
and (ii) identify measures for making their course offerings more compatible with priorities and
budget capacity.
e) Post-secondary education consists of (a) university study abroad; about 2000 students, all
levels/subjects, mainly in Portugal and Brazil, and, (b) national institutes with an enrollment of
about 1000. Courses of study generally reflect national priorities and the current policy of
requiring cost-sharing by parents through student loans (administered by private banks) is sound.
In-country tertiary institutes include: a business school initiated by the private sector; a marine
science academy which teaches science and engineering subjects; an agriculture/forestry center
focusing on sustainable rural development; and a secondary teacher training institutes. Issues.
Students in the overseas program are dispersed over a large number of participating universities.
Since there are rarely more than a few students per school, their isolation and lack of identity
make it difficult for the host schools to provide academic counseling, supplementary and remedial
studies, and health and counseling services. It is also costly, if not impractical, for Cape Verde's
embassies to monitor their progress. The student loan scheme has only been in operation for a
few years and loan reimbursement has not yet commenced. It is important to review its financial
and actuarial provisions with regard to sus-ainability over the long term. While the secondary
teacher training institute - Instituto responsavel pelaforma,co de professores de Ensino
Secunddrio(ISE) has a clear mandate and responds to well-identified labor market needs, the other
specialized institutes do not together provide a balanced response to the demand for post-
secondary courses generated by an 18 - 55 age population of less than 200,000. That demand is
likely to be characterized by small numbers of degree course candidates (even if fewer students
went overseas) and a somewhat larger pool of students of all ages wishing to pursue isolated
academic and technical courses on an individual basis or sponsored by their employers.
Experience suggests that a traditional approach to post-secondary studies will not be feasible,
given the likely diseconomies of scale. Strategy. The Government seeks to draw up a strategic
medium and long-term plan for the sub-sector, based on an assessment of the quality and cost-
effectiveness of ongoing programs. It will also review international experience with loan funds
and cost recovery, distance education and related higher education problems. A forum will
examine the results of the assessment, explore different organizational models for future
development as well as new instructional approaches, such as distance leaming, and define
priority feasibility studies.
J) Workforce development: The currentPEBFprojectlaidthe foundations fortraining and
apprenticeship systems and for employment services. A National Advisory Council for
Employment and Training--Conselho Nacional do Emprego e Formaj,do Profissional do MEFIS
in this regard. Even when technical/vocational schools have benefited from full financing, parents have
valued them more as a route to higher education, rather than to the job market. Moreover, the planned
vocational courses can be delivered more cost-effectively by the IEFP Training Fund which operates on the
basis of demand from firms and from individuals. Employers are likely to prefer the Training Fund
"products" because they are less costly than Grade 11 or 12 leavers and because their skill profiles have
been developed in close consultation with the employer.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page 7 of 21
(CNEF), was established, with representatives of the private sector, the unions and Government,
and entrusted with the task of defining and applying relevant policies. The Employment and
Training Institute-Instituto de Emprego e Forma,co Profissional do MEFIS (IEFP) was
strengthened and a Training Support Fund--Fundo de Promo,do do Emprego e Forma,ao do
MEFIS (FPEF) established to provide demand-driven training (15-20 courses per year) for
enterprises on a cost-sharing basis. A board of directors, the FPEF Executive Committee--
Comissao Administrativa do FPEF (CA) applies the training policies and reviews specific
training requests submitted by enterprises against established criteria and prescribed procedures.
An apprenticeship program provides instruction to about 350 apprentices a year. Although initial
results seem satisfactory, much remains to be done with regard to the definition of policies and to
the improvement of program quality. Issues. The GEDS - Servi,o responsdvelpelaplanifica,do e
estudos do MEFIS (the MEFIS Planning Unit) is new and lacks capacity in marketing, planning
and economic evaluation. Labor legislation, important for the development of the private sector,
requires updating to take into account the country's development strategy. This task would be
financed by the Public Sector Reform Project. The CNEF has experienced operational difficulties,
particularly with regard to the quality and frequency of participation by its representatives from
the private sector, the unions and Government. The IEFP's job placement service has yet to be
evaluated and its work in monitoring emigration and in conducting employment services needs
strengthening. The training fund has made progress toward increased cost-sharing by client
enterprises which cover about 25% of costs on average. However, the Fund needs time to develop
better marketing of training, targeting sectors and large enterprises. Strategy. The Ministry plans
to: (i) strengthen planning services and employment services; (ii) adapt its labor legislation to the
needs of the workplace; (iii) strengthen the policy-making capacity of the CNEF; (iv) implement a
new marketing approach at the FEPF that would broaden its clientele and increase cost-sharing.
Similarly, greater financial participation of employers in the apprenticeship program will be
sought.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses the issue of quality maintenance in basic education by: (i) providing school
books and teacher guides and additional school places in areas of rapid enrollment growth; and
(ii) testing decentralized approaches for continuous in-service teacher training reinforced by
distance training methodologies. In workforce development, the project tackles policy issues by
strengthening policy advisory bodies and aims at enhancing the effectiveness, responsiveness and
sustainability of ongoing programs by introducing new approaches and enhanced cost-sharing for
demand-driven training/apprenticeship programs, and by strengthening employment-related
services. The comprehensive sector study addresses the fundamental issue facing the rapidly
growing ETS - the lack of an adequate knowledge base for underpinning future planning and
development. Finally, capacity building focuses on the need to strengthen the key units of the
MEJCD and the MEFIS (notably in planning, management and economic analysis) by training
them to implement new technical approaches and working methods in view of the Government's
planned PDRH.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 8 of 21
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category of   Cost Include.  % of Total  Bank-Financing   % of Bank
policy     Contingencies                 (US$M)        Financing
..__________    (US$M)
CONSOLIDATION
1- EDUCATION AND                                   3.281        45%           2.577          79 %
TRAINING CONSOLIDATION
1.1 - Reinforcement of the                         2.407                      1.741
Integrated Basic Education
through:
(a) primary school infrastructure  Physical
(b) supply of textbooks and teacher  Physical &
guides; strengthening the Textbooks  Inst. Dev.
Fund management
1.2 - Reinforcement of the       Inst. Dev.        0.874                      0.836
Training Programs through:
(a) the Training Fund and
apprenticeship programs
(b) strengthening the sector's policy
and advisory bodies; and,
(c) improving the quality and
efficiency of employment surveys
and job placement services.
MODERNIZATION
2 - SECTOR STUDIES                                 1.978        27%           1.644          83 %
2.1 - Education Sector Review    Inst. Dev.        1.248                      0.917
Qualitative assessment of
education sub-sectors; analytical
studies; literature review,
workshops and study tours;
Scenarios and simulations of
program options
2.2- Evaluation of Labor Force    Inst. Dev.       0.730                      0.727
Development Policies
(a) Review of vocational training
policies;
(b) Assessment of vocational
training, apprenticeship & micro-
enterprise programs; and,
(c) Development of a facility map
for the training sub-sector
3 - FIELD-TESTING/                                 0.659         9%           0.437           66%
CONSULTATION
(a) Field-testing of selected options  Inst. Dev.  0.659                      0.437



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modanization
Page 9 of 21
Component            Category of   Cost Include.  % of Total  Bank-Financing   % of Bank
policy    Contingencies               (US$M)       Financing
.                              ~~~~~~~(UJS$M) ___
(b) Consultation and Information-
Education-Communication
activities
4 - CAPACITY BUILDING                          1.444        19%          1.371        95 %
4.1 - Institutional Development   Inst. Dev.   0.868                     0.822
Institutional assessment of Ministry
of Education and Ministry of
Employment and Training; and
capacity-building program
4.2 - Project Coordination    Inst. Dev.       0.576                     0.549
Total     7.362                    6.029
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: (see Annex 2):
The project helps consolidate the basic education reform as well as the workforce development
programs initiated to serve the private sector and Government on a cost-sharing, demand basis.
The proposed sector study will help underpin several ongoing/ proposed reforms through
analytical studies and field-testing of promising options. These include: the policy goal of
generalizing pre-school by ensuring attention to quality and equity; the second phase of basic
education reform (including the proposed measure to extend obligatory schooling) through new
approaches to school organization and teaching practices; and the identification/evaluation of
secondary, post-secondary and training programs consistent with Cape Verde's development
goals and labor market policies, drawing upon international experience. Most importantly, the
project supports the macroeconomic goal of budgetary discipline by ensuring that the overall
reform program is consistent with medium term growth perspectives and based on the regular
review of expenditures.
3.   Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
* Additional student places for primary education in densely populated islands
* Private and social benefits associated with a literate population and an educated labor force:
potential for higher income streams; adaptability to changing economic and technological
environment; effect on productivity of skilled workers; effects on fertility, nutrition and poverty
reduction
* Increased efficiency and responsiveness of education system to labor market needs.
* Greater efficiency in utilization of Government funding
* Improved planning and management capacity in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of
Employment and Training
Target Population:
Students in pre-school, primary and secondary education as well as students in post-secondary
education. Employers and the workforce will benefit through flexible labor market policies and
cost-effective training programs.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page 10 of 21
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period is three years, mid-1999 through mid-2002. The executing agencies
are: (i) the Office of the Vice Prime Minister (OVPM); (ii) the Ministry of Education, and (iii) the
Ministry of Employment and Training. The OVPM has overall responsibility for financial
management, procurement of civil works and goods, as well as for the recruitment of specialized
services with regard to IDA projects. MECJO and MEFIS are responsible for implementing the
project components in their respective areas. Project components will be implemented as follows:
Education:
Primary education activities will be undertaken by the following departments of MECJD with
responsibilities assigned as follows: (i) the Secretary General and the Administrative Department
- Servi,o responsavelpela administra9do dos recursos humanos, materiais efinanceiros (DA),
for textbook distribution with the support of the FEE manager, and for civil works and furniture
with the support of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the Ministry of Infrastructure; (ii) the
MEDCJD Planing Unit - GEDSE (Servi,o responsavel pelos estudos e planifica,cao educativa),
for updating the school map and the programming of school construction; (iii) the General
Education Department - DGEBS (servi,o responsavelpela orienta,do pedag6gica no ensino pre-
escolar, bdsico e secunddrio), for policy implementation and coordination of regional delegates
and school directors; (iv) the Preschool and Primary Education Teacher Training Institute -IP
(Instituto responsavel pelaformacdo de professores de Pre-escolar e Ensino Basico), for teacher
training and textbooks review.
Sector studies will be implemented by existing departments, with the following responsibilities:
(i) the GEDSE, for data collection and analysis of internal efficiency, educational expenditures
and the simulation of policy options and in the overview of studies; (ii) specific studies as
follows: the DGEBS, for pre-school, basic and secondary education; the DGESC-- servico
responsavelpelo Ensino Superior for Higher Education; the DA, for the study of the teaching
corps; the IP, for pre-school and primary teacher training, and the ISE, for secondary teacher
training.
Field-testing: the DGEBS will be responsible for field-testing at the pre-school and primary
education levels, together with the IP; and for implementing the field-testing of secondary level
initiatives, jointly with the ISE
Training and employment:
The IPFP Director will be responsible for implementing the employment and training
consolidation activities. The day-to-day operations of the FPEF will continue to be overseen by
the existing CA according to current satisfactory procedures. Financial management will be the
responsibility of the PCU.
Sector Studies: (i) The GEDS will overview the evaluation of the labor force development
policies; and (ii) the IEFP will be responsible for implementing policy review and assessing
training and apprenticeship programs and employment services, in consultation with the CNEF
and the CA.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 11 of 21
Coordination and Capacity Building:
Coordination. The PCU Coordinator will be responsible for the overall management of the
project including financial management, audits, procurement of goods and services and for liaison
with IDA. The Coordinator will be assisted by an accountant and a senior secretary. The
Coordinator will work closely with the Project Component Coordinators for Education and
Training who have the oversight of project activities in their respective ministries and will advise
the appropriate departments on programming, planning and implementation procedures. The PCU
will also be responsible for preparing annual implementation reviews with the support of project
coordinators. In order to ensure coordination of activities which involve several departments and
to facilitate the resolution of operational problems, project implementation committees (PICs)
comprising the directors and heads of department concerned by the project activities, will monitor
and review progress in implementation and review proposals for field-testing new programs and
methods, meeting every two months. The Project Coordinators will be members ex officio of the
PICs and record the minutes. The PICs will work with the Project Coordinators to prepare
progress reports for the annual implementation review.
Capacity Building. An institutional assessment will be carried out and technical assistance will
be recruited, under the general overview and responsibility of the OVPM. The goal of the
assessment is to identify ways of streamlining and strengthening key services (technical,
administrative, financial and procurement) of the MECJD and MEFIS, enabling them to respond
to the challenge of new programs and methods, and to implement the education/training
components of the planned PDRH. The MECJD and MEFIS will review the operational
recommendations made by the assessment and make proposals as to specific capacity-building
measures designed to address them.
Technical assistance mainly concerns: (i) sector studies; (ii) adaptation and field-testing; (iii)
planning, management and economic analysis; (iv) staff development/training (v) accounting,
auditing and project supervision. The FCG, a Portugal-based international non-profit institution,
will finance technical assistance for certain of the items related to (i) through (iv) above in the
education sector, on the basis of terms of reference for specific activities agreed upon by
Government and IDA. Individual technical assistance (national and international) will also be
provided as needed. Intemationally reputed universities or foundations may be contracted to
organize workshops, study tours and conduct specific studies.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial management specialist
of the Dakar Resident Mission appraised the staffing, systems and procedures of the PCU in
February 1999. The project accountant is experienced, has sound professional and computer
skills, and is deemed competentto handle accounting underthe proposed project. The latest
version of the accounting system software (used successfully by other IDA projects) is being
procured for the PCU. A senior consulting economist/accountant. familiar with both the ongoing
and the proposed projects as well as the current accounting system has prepared a new version of
the accounting manual and will oversee the upgrading of the software. The consultant will assist
in the gradual introduction of the LACI systems and procedures over the next two years. The
financial analyst of the Dakar Resident Mission will also make periodic visits to monitor progress.
The audits of the PEBF project were ranked satisfactory, and the same firm has been selected to
conduct the proposed project audits. A 1998 mission by the World Bank disbursement department
found the handling of disbursement requests to be satisfactory.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page 12 of 21
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of project
performance and outcomes will be carried out by the implementing units over the life of the
project, with the PCU playing a coordinating role. The M&E system will be guided by the Project
Design Summary (Annex 1) and the project implementation manual. Using a simulation model,
the impact of any new program options identified as a result of the sector studies will be assessed
in terms of their likely impact on unit costs and budgets.
Project supervision: With respect to monitoring, the PCU will organize joint IDA-Government
annual reviews of project implementation, based on the progress reports and expenditure
statements of the previous year and work programs/budgets planned for the following year.
Implementation plans for the next year will also be included in the annual review. The PCU will
conduct semi-annual reviews jointly with the relevant departments of the MECJD and MEFIS to
follow up project progress and adjust the next semester's programming. Donors active in the
sector will be consulted and receive copies of reports. External review: The PCU will call on
senior specialists to provide quality control and guidance to implementing departments and to
advise on recent intemational experience in related education reforms.
Project completion report. The Govemment will submit its own evaluation report within six
months of the Credit's closing in accordance with the guidelines for the preparation of completion
reports applicable at that time.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An altemative approach would have been to pursue the incremental approach of the past,
investing in specific priority programs. Such an approach has clear disadvantages, notably
imbalances in investment and funding and the loss of synergies and economies which derive from
a coordinated system-wide planning approach. The draft IDA regional strategy paper notes that
any efforts to accelerate education development must be grounded in "comprehensive sector
analysis" 2. Such an approach is indeed now indispensable in Cape Verde since high social
demand is expanding enrollments at all levels while certain paths already taken (the secondary
technical/vocational schools) may threaten budgetary balance, forcing Government to make
difficult choices about resource allocation. The challenge is to ensure that those choices are
informed by both analysis and intemational experience.
2 "Countries will need to invest in the whole sector including early childhood development, basic
education, secondary education, skills training, tertiary education, and adult education. Since each level has
its own importance and canmot be traded for another, the question is not whether or not to provide these
services, but how fast and through what mechanisms they can be developed. Yet, at the same time, sectoral
investment programs will need to pursue clear objectives and make explicit investment choices among
competing priorities."



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemnization
Page 13 of 21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing andplanned):
Sector level and activities                          Financier
Bank-financed
Basic Education and Training, Cr. 2675: development of an integrated primary school  IDA
program (for grades 1-6), and a demand-driven training and apprenticeship scheme.  1995-2000
Rated satisfactory in Implementation Progress and Development Objectives
EDUCATION SECTOR
Other development agencies
Secondary education: expansion and equipment of 3 high-schools; in-service training  AfDB
for 500 teachers and equipment of the Secondary Teachers' Training istitute.  1997-2000
Inspectors' training, development of curriculum, textbooks and learning achievement
assessment.
Adult education: literacy programs, particularly for women.
MOE institutional strengthening: training and TA for the GED SE, the ISE and the
Inspection Service.
Primary education: Teaching materials; teacher training; environmental education.  EU
Technical secondary educafion: construction, equipment, curriculum development
and teacher training for the Praia Secondary Technical School.
Public management: regional program for African Lusophone countries.
Basic education: school-community relationships and parent involvement; school  UNICEF
equipment; teacher training in 12 "polo" cluster schools.                     1997-1999
Textbooks for the poor: support to the ICASE to finance and distribute textbooks to
the poorprimary school children. School health programs 'support.
School canteens: food supplies since 1979. The program is expected to end in 2000.  WFP
1979 to 2000
Budgetary support to MOE: mainly to support classroom construction/rehabilitation  Netherlands
for Basic Education and teacher training.
Basic Education: math and Portuguese teacher training radio programs
Post-secondary education: support to the National Scholarship Fund.
Preschool & basic education transition in the islands of Fogo and Brava: in-service  Gemnany
training for preschool teachers and caregivers; and training of school principals. At  GTZ Agency
the national level: support for pre- and in-service training of pre-school teachers;  (10 year program)
curriculum development to link the pre-school and primary programs; training of
pedagogical advisors. Strengthening of school community participation;
reinforcement of sciences teaching
Basic education: school rehabilitation.                                      Luxembourg
Technical vocational secondary school: Construction of two schools in early 1999
including student housing.
Secondary education: school construction in Paul and student housing for 160 poor,
rural students from Praia and Sto. Antao.
Basic education: teacher training in Santiago island; budgetary support for school  Austria
maintenance.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page 14 of 21
Sector level and activities                            Financier
Secondary education: in-service teacher training.
Post-secondary education: support to the National Scholarship Fund; graduate studies
in Social Sciences Research for ISE faculty.
Adult education: literacy, teaching materials, micro-projects for 125 youth and young
adults.
Portugal TA
Secondary education: in-service continuous teacher training; introduction of distance
learning methodologies in the classroom.
Basic and secondary education inspectors trainig. Technical support for pre-service
teacher training.
Post-secondary education: support to the Higher Education National Scholarship
Fund (400 students); support to the four post-secondary schools in CV.
Training ofpublic senior staff-central level: training activities in CV and Portugal;
Training ofpublic senior staff-municipal level: in Portugal.
Secondary schools construction: two schools.                                   Portugal loan
School canteens: budgetary support.                                             Switzerland
Secondary education: co-financing of school construction in Sao Domingos.
Adult education: TA and equipment of MEJCD adult education unit; support of
literacy and vocational training programs.
Post-secondary education: support to the National Scholarship Fund and T.A. to
MOE to monitor student path.
Training ofpublic medium-level staff at the municipalities: program support.
Pre-school education: assessment and future perspectives.                   Calouste Gulbenkian
Basic education: TA on textbooks, teacher training, learning achievement testing;  Foundation- FCG
Secondary education: curriculum development.
Post-secondary education: studies assessing higher education alternatives.
Student housing: construction of boarding facilities in Mindelo for secondary students
from the Leeward Islands.
Training of IP staff.
TRAINING AND LABOR SECTOR:
Vocational training: development of equal gender access training programs and the  Germany
development of teaching materials for training trainers; development of a national  GTZ Agency
vocational training certification system.                                        1996-1999
Development of a training needs assessment system.
Technical Assistance Fundfor Micro-Enterprise: capacity building and providing    Austria
micro, small and medium enterprises with access to technical assistance.       OEZ Agency
1998-2000
Marketing and design capacity building for micro-enterprises: Improve the quality  Austria
and presentation of micro-enterprise products through the training of trainers and  OEZ Agency
through consultants; training of micro entrepreneurs; and training in marketing.  1998-2001
Micro-enterprise promotion through (i) the design and operation of a direct support  Switzerland
system to the micro-enterprises as well as training and TA; (ii) improvement of  1995-1998
coordmiation and piloting mechanisms; and (iii) establishing a legal framework.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 15 of 21
Largely because of the absence of a system-wide approach to planning, the development of the
ETS has been substantially donor-driven, with donors "buying into" favored islands and sub-
sectors rather than supporting the harmonious development of the sector as a whole. This has led
to a serious dispersion of resources as well as to policy contradictions. The PDRH plan will help
Government exercise stronger leadership and promote closer donor participation in program
design, monitoring, and evaluation.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons emerging from the experience of the first and the ongoing projects are:
* the value of careful advance planning and field-testing of new programs - field-testing under
typical school conditions helps "debug" programs and provides school principals and teachers
with hands-on implementation experience before programs are generalized
* consultation of beneficiaries and participants was a major factor in the successful design,
development and fine-tuning of basic education and training reforms
e  the design and implementation of programs must take into account the dispersed physical
character of this archipelagic nation which makes it difficult to ensure uniform quality and
access on an equitable basis across the nine inhabited islands
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government is committed to the development of its principal resource - its people - as the best
way to implement its vision of Cape Verde's society and economy. To this end, it plans to launch
a multi-year human resource development program - the PDRH scheduled for implementation
early in the next decade - with the objective of creating an educated, responsive and flexible
workforce. Donors will be asked to commit their funding to the program, rather than to isolated
initiatives. Government regards the proposed project as the primary vehicle for carrying out the
analyses and development studies required to formulate the blueprints for implementing the
PDRH in the education and training sectors. Social demand for education is high for all levels of
education and among the urban middle class, there is a growing wish to participate in the
governance of education. With municipal elections scheduled for 1999 and parliamentary and
presidential elections (for 2000 and 2001 respectively), education is a key feature in party
platforms and likely to be at the forefront of public debate in the next few years.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value-added of Bank support is its comparative advantage as a major donor for education
world-wide as well as its strengths in technical assistance and research. Project preparation has
tapped into this experience by organizing workshops and field visits at Headquarters for senior
Government staff, including the two ministers. The workshops benefited from the assistance of
senior education staff Bank-wide and contributed to shared knowledge and a strong team
relationship.
The process intrinsic to the development of a sector program by the Government in partnership
with the Bank, will promote the establishment of investment priorities, a clear framework of the
planned ten-year PDRH, and a mechanism for improved donor coordination.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 16 of 21
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Proposed Economic Analysis (supported by Annex 5):
The project seeks to ensure that new developments in the ETS are consistent with the country's
institutional and financial capacity. This will involve reviewing program options against criteria
of technical feasibility, cost-effectiveness and economic viability before adapting and field-testing
them. Economic analysis will be a key decision-making tool in this process. The education
sector is changing significantly: full enrollment in primary school and an open-door policy in
secondary education are creating pressures for new investment and for new, relevant, and cost-
effective programs. Consequently, new decision-making techniques giving primacy to economic
analysis are needed. The proposed project provides a "bridge" between the existing education
system and a more modem one, evolving out of the planned PDRH. Building that bridge means
developing analytical capacity. The project finances the development of capacity in economic
analysis and educational planning. The approach is based on on-the-job training linked to a
detailed, monitorable work program (Annex 5) which addresses the critical need for reliable base-
line indicators. Key tasks include:
* establishing the baseline parameters against which the impact of enrollment growth can be
projected and the relative costs of program alternatives assessed;
*  exploring equity issues, in priority assessing: (a) the direct and indirect costs of schooling;
and (b) the targeting and cost-effectiveness of existing subsidies;
-  evaluating the cost effectiveness of proposed program options for the development of primary,
secondary and post-secondary education;
- evaluating the public and private returns to investment, including returns to higher education,
comparing study overseas with university studies locally;
*  evaluating the cost effectiveness and targeting issues of the current subsidies programs,
mainly the textbooks and school meals program;
*  examining the cost-effectiveness and benefits of current active and passive labor market
programs.
A good start has been made. On the basis of the training already carried out, the GEDSE has
developed unit costs for key programs, identified their component costs, notably projecting
teacher salaries and has projected enrollments and associated budget requirements. The GEDSE
is also taking the lead in the public expenditure review.
2. Financial (see Annex 6):
Fiscal impact:
The only component of the proposed project which will act to increase the education/training
budget is the construction of the additional 60 classrooms. The impact will be slight, less than
one percent of the MEJCD's operating budget, consisting of the costs of books, materials and the
downstream annual maintenance costs of new classrooms. Most of the additional teacher time
required can be provided by the redeployment of existing teachers from uneconomic small classes



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page 17 of 21
and by multi-grade teaching. Otherwise, no new permanent positions, contingent on Government
financing, are being created. The slight increase in operating costs will be offset overall by
increased cost-sharing by employers and beneficiaries with regard to the training and
apprenticeship programs. The current recurrent budget allocations are given in Annex 6.
Future Developments. At stake is the future financial viability of the ETS which is threatened by
high social demand leading to increased enrollments at all levels. While education's current share
of the overall Government budget is a reasonable 23%, significant increases are not envisaged
under current economic growth perspectives. Because of increasing enrollments, any new
programs must therefore be carefully scrutinized in terms of their impact on the operating budget
and their long term sustainability. As noted, the proposed secondary technical/vocational schools
may have costs as much as 30 percent higher than those of the general secondary school. The
proposed sector study will evaluate this program and any other new proposals in terms of their
effect on the overall budget for education/training and on its internal allocation. Distance
learning, the training of "polyvalent" teachers (able to teach more than one subject), multi-grade
teaching methods, and increased cost-sharing for training and higher education programs are
identified options for reducing costs while maintaining quality. While program options may be
assessed as individually cost-effective and technically feasible, there is always the possibility that
they may strain or overreach the country's financial capacity. Consequently, an important task is
to develop an overall financial model in order to keep track of the financial costs of the evolving
reform under the PDRH.
3. Technical:
The basic education component was developed by staff ofthe MECJD-- the construction program and
the textbooks reprinting plan. The staff also developed a plan to strengthen the operations and
financing of the Textbooks Fund. Technical specifications for school construction and for textbooks
had already been approved under the ongoing project. Up-dated terms of reference for the Project
Coordinator Component Coordinators were submitted to IDA prior to negotiations. The training and
employment component was prepared by the IEFP and theGEDS. A Procedural Manual goveming the
FPEF was revised early 1999 based on recommendations from technical and financial audits, as well as
from supervision missions. The Implementation Manual has been prepared. The Accounting Manual
is being revised and updated and the final versions will be submitted to IDA before effectiveness.The
terms of reference for the sector study and related sub-sector were prepared by the technical staff of
the MECJD and MEFIS and are under review by IDA.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Three ministries are involved in project coordination, one responsible for strategy (planning and
economic coordination, currently under the OVPM) and two line ministries (education;
employment and training). Given the pivotal role of education and training in Cape Verde's
development strategy as well as their impact on the national budget, the OVPM provides overall
strategic coordination of these sectors in order to ensure coherence with the national objectives,
adherence to macro-economic and financial constraints, and improved coordination of external
investment. The public investment program (PIP) is almost entirely donor-financed and
education/training is the most significant domain of investment. The OVPM is currently
implementing a prudent macro-economic program and seeks the same degree of responsible
management in investment. Coordination of education/training investment at this level has



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 18 of 21
several advantages: clear linkages between investment planning for the sector and the overall
public investment program; full integration of the sector (the biggest Government spender) within
the public expenditure review process; and a degree of donor coordination for the sector which
could not be achieved solely at the level of the two line ministries.
The IP has a sound record in the design and field-testing of basic education programs and in
teacher training. The ISE is more focused on subject matter content than on methodology and
field work. Its capacity will be substantially enhanced by its participation in the secondary level
studies. The MEJCD has moved to strengthen its planning unit which will be a key player in the
conduct of the overall sector study. A work program in economic analysis has been established
and two staff development workshops in the area of public expenditures have been planned for the
second semester of SY1999. The DGEBS has participated in the preparation of the terms of
reference and plan of activities for the studies and field-testing. The IEFP has a good record in
employment studies and in operating the apprenticeship program while the FPEF goveming board
has responded well to demands from their clients in business and Government. In preparation for
the project, the MEFIS has moved to strengthen its planning unit.
Project Management: The PCU under the OVPM has proved effective in the resolution of
budgetary issues, in the timely provision of counterpart funds and in the resolution of operational
problems. Its handling of procurement and the management of technical assistance, in full
consultation with the two line ministries, has proved effective. Physical implementation and the
procurement of goods and services have met or exceeded appraisal targets during the current
project. Finally, there is a tradition of sound teamwork between the OVPM coordinator and the
respective component coordinators of the MEJCD and the MEFIS and Government has decided to
maintain the continuity provided by this effective relationship. Budgeting, procurement,
accounting and audit functions remain in the economic/finance orbit of Government (under the
OVPM) while the two ministries have fuUl responsibility for activities under their jurisdiction
including sector policy, the design/development of programs and monitoring and evaluation.
Counterpart Funds: Government maintains a budget line for counterpart funds within the public
investment budget. Overall, funding has been adequate and timely, as have deposits to the special
account maintained in the C,entral Bank which serves as the banker to the Treasury. The 1999
budget already reflects counterpart funding requirements for the project.
5. Social:
Apart from reinforcing basic education with quality inputs (textbooks; teacher training), the long
term social impact of the project is likely to be significant in that its key goal is to provide the
knowledge base and analytical capacity for future planning of Cape Verde's education/ training
system. At the program level, encouraging the development of pre-school and early child
development by the private sector, by public agencies and through subsidies targeting households
headed by women and children in isolated areas will have a major impact on school participation
and retention, on intellectual development, and on poverty by encouraging women's participation
in the labor force.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category C
As a Category C project, the project does not present any environmental risks. It is expected to
contribute to improving environmental awareness and care through both curriculum and teacher



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 19 of 21
training. The strengthening of integrated science teaching in lower secondary school will provide
all school children with a window on their environment and on ways to protect it.
7. Participatory approach:
The recentpoverty plan consultative process tapped the views of municipalities, local health and
education providers as well as those of NGOs and beneficiary groups regarding social service
priorities. The broad consensus was that human resource development was Cape Verde's key
priority. Interviewees identified as major goals: basic education (pre-school through grade 8) for
all children to promote citizenship and active participation in the labor market; the expansion of
functional adult education programs; and priority to the poor.
At the operational level, the following priority actions were identified: (i) deploy teachers more
equitably (so rural areas do not always get the least qualified); (ii) provide in-service training on a
regular basis; (iii) improve school management by creating more consolidated districts around
cluster schools and by modernizing administrative procedures; (iv) promote parent and
community participation in local school management (currently little contact between schools and
communities); and (v) provide incentives for the decentralization of education.
a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Consultation would be an integral part of each component. Component 2 would seek to get
parents' views on: the quality of instruction, the functioning of cluster schools, parental access to
teachers and principals, textbooks and school-meal subsidies, and current policies and practices
(pre-school, multi-grade teaching, promotion, double shifts). In Component 3, field-testing
proposals would be shared with the parents at pilot schools and they would be invited to
participate closely in monitoring them. In order to inform the general public about educational
issues, a new television discussion series has been proposed (three broadcasts per year) on the
"Education Forum " program. The two teacher training institutes, the IP and the ISE, have Web
Sites on which news about education reform can be posted. There is also a plan to install
"telesalas" in community halls. These would provide a natural Web access point for citizens.
b) Other key stakeholders:
Stakeholders include political parties, unions and businesses3. On the political front there is
broad support for the modernization and development of the education system which has a voice
through parliamentary committees. The National Council for Education provides broad
representation of public interests. The CNEF also gives Government, employers and unions a
voice in policy. The proj ect will strengthen this latter entity through an educational program
aimed at enhancing their awareness of labor market issues including research on the economic
impact and cost-effectiveness of different approaches.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will help plan the development and modernization of the system, underpinning the
proposed PDRH. Thus, it is vital that proposed changes in curricula, methods, and program
participation be tested as to their medium to long-term sustainability under the macro-economic
scenarios currently envisaged by the CAS. To that end, the project seeks to develop strong teams
3 A preliminary stakeholder list is included in the project manual of implementation.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modemization
Page 20 of 21
in planning and economic analysis in MECJD and MEFIS charged with assessment of the
cost/benefits and financial sustainability of the program proposals, by training them in the use of a
financial simulation model and in the conduct of public investment and expenditure reviews.
2.   Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Objectives to Goals
Changing world economic conditions may slow    M        Re-prioritize development work to
foreign investment, reduce remittances, create          focus on a minimum, sustainable
restrictions on labor mobility, leading to a            reform package
slowed economic growth and reduced GNP
Outputs to Objectives
Political commitment to an integrated sector   M        Effective Government, Donor, IDA
approach to development of the ETS may                  policy dialogue. Implementation of
weaken.                                                 IEC.
Government/public may opt for program                   Initial steps: senior staff from the
approaches with negative budgetary                      three ministries attended ad hoc,
implications                                            seminars focusing on best practice.
There will be systematic follow-up
throughout the implementation
period. Feasibility studies,
economic analysis and piloting will
be conducted and results will be
disseminated and discussed through
the consultative process.
Teachers may resist program changes and/or     M        Give special attention in
changes in their working conditions                     consultation to teacher unions and
in the design of programs, to ways
of motivating teachers
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
At present there is insufficient knowledge to support the concept of a "national university". The heavy
investments required in infrastructure and the considerable recurrent costs need to be carefully analyzed to
ensure that any decisions are cost-effective. Such a concept seems to be taking hold, especially within the
elite and business circles, consequently timely and adequate consultation is essential, to provide feedback
on other country experience and best practice. The proposed higher education forum a step in this
direction.



Cape Verde- Education and Training Consolidation and Modernization
Page21 of 21
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) finalize establishment of the PCU;
(b) appointment of independent auditors;
(c) establishment a computerized accounting and financial system for the Project;
(d) opening of the project account and initial deposit;
(e) adoption of the Project Implementation Manual.
2. Other:
(a) Effectiveness of the grant agreement with the CGF by June 30, 2000
(b) Mid-term review and annual reviews throughout the project implementation period.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ x] A Project Implementation Manual has been prepared.
[ x ] The tender documents for civil works and school furniture are ready
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:            Carmen E. Perez-Castafio
Sector Manager:              Nichoi
Country Director:             ah<m;A



Annex 1 - Project Design Summary
Page I of 4
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization
Narrative Summary            Key Performance            Monitoring and      [   Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal               -                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieving Cape Verde's vision    *   Investment growth and  *   Investment and trade
of a competitive export-oriented,  job creation (tourism;     statistics
service-based economy with        light industry, financial
linkages to major markets          services)
*   Application of the    *   CAS process
proposed regulatory        monitoring
framework
*   Competitivity of CV's  *   Employment survey
labor in overseas          data
markets
*   Level of remittances    *   Macroeconomic
reviews
Improvement in poverty        *   Poverty measures in    *   Poverty assessments
reduction                          place
Project Development                                                                (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
The Development Objective of
the Education and Training
program is to develop a
technically and financially
sustainable education and
training system which will
ensure an educated and flexible
workforce responding to Cape
Verde's social and economic
goals.
A. Recent reforms in:         *   94% net enrolment rate  *   MECJD indicators
(i) Basic education and            in primary education
maintained by EOP*
*    Student achievement in  *   Review testing by  *   CV economic
key subjects (85% pass    the IP                    comparative advantage
rate on Grade 6 exam)                               remains valid
maintained
*   90 %   of students     *   Review FEE           *   Level of remittances is
with books maintained      records/spot checks      maintained
by EOP
*   Revised rules         *   Ministry review and   *    Continuing political
governing student         policy                    commitment on an
evaluation                 recommendations by       integrated ETS approach
2001
l AspertheUNICEF survey (1997)



Annex 1 - Project Design Summary
Page 2 of 4
Narrative Summary            Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
(ii) Labor force development  *   Trainee job placement  *   Review Employment
improved and consolidated          increasing from 60% to     records
80% by EOP
B. Knowledge base and         *   Costs of ETS           *   Review unit costs/
analytical skills required for the  programs projected        budget impact
medium term development of the    through medium-term
ETS developed                      by EOP
*   Technical feasibility &   *   Review economic
cost-effectiveness of      analysis
proposed options
established by EOP
*   Analytical capacity in   *   Review technical
place by EOP               assistance and
training
Project Outputs                                                            (Outputs to Objective)
CONSOLIDATION
A. BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION
Integrated Basic Education:
1. Civil works program        *   60 classrooms          *   Inspection of civil  *   Willingness of education
completed                     according to national      works, progress          leaders to base decisions
standards ready for SY    records and site visits.  on economic and
2000-01                                             fmancial considerations
2. Arrangements for           *   270,000 textbooks and   *   Review of reports    *   Willingness of authorities
sustainable provision of       teacher guides            produced and on-site     and public to explore
school books in place          produced and              inspection.              other models
distributed by 2000                            *   Teachers are supportive
and 240,000 by 2001                                to the changes being
introduced
*   30% of textbooks      *   Review of the         *   Consultation leads to
subsidized                ICASE records            basic consensus among
*   Spot checking            key stakeholders
*    12 textbooks and      *   Review of new
corresponding teacher     books
guides (grade 1-4)
updated by 2002
*   Management system     *   Review of distribution
for the FEE improved      lists, stock balances,
per agreed criteria by    and on-site inspection
June 2000
Training and Employment
3. Demand-driven training and  *   15 demand driven      *   Review records of
apprenticeship programs        vocational training       IEFP
operating on a sustainable     programs financed
basis                          yearly with annual    *   Technical audits
increases in client
financing
*   285 skilled workers    *   Idem
yearly totaling 855 by
2002



Annex I - Project Design Summary
Page 3 of 4
Narrative Summary            Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
*    185 apprentices      *   Review records of
fnanced yearly            Fund
increasing client     *   Review participants
financing from 10% to     list
be reviewed annually,   *   Technical audits
totaling 555 by 2002.
MODERNIZATION
B. SECTOR STUDIES
4. Technically feasible, cost-    *   Qualitative assessment,  *   Quality control via
effective options identified  analytical studies and     external technical
for the sustainable medium    workshops carried out      review by senior
term development of the       by responsible Units       specialists
education/training sector     from MECJD, MEFIS    *   IDA review of studies
(PDRH)                        and the OVPM               documentation and
according to Terms of     reports
reference and Project
Implementation
Manual. By 2001, the
following minimum
results:
*   Qualitative assessment
for pre-school, primary,
secondary and higher
education completed
*   Internal efficiency and
sector financial reviews
on schedule
*   Review of new
curricula proposals on
schedule
*   Training and center of
employment programs
evaluated
C. FIELD-TESTINGI CONSULTATION
5. Selected programs/methods    *   Proposals for testing    *   Review records of
field-tested and costed         presented by MECJD        the MECJD and PIC
units meeting agreed       meetings
criteria
*   Testing experiences    *  Review testing reports
evaluated                 and supervision visits
6. Stakeholders consulted and    *  Workshops, focus     *   Review studies
informed regularly             groups, stakeholder        documentation and
interviews, radio and      reports
other feedback        *   Spot visits
mechanisms in regular
use in sector studies and
field testing by 2001
4 -CAPACITY BUILDING



Annex 1 - Project Design Sunimasy
Page 4 of 4
Narrative Summary             Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
7. Medium-tern capacity       *   Institutional assessment  *   Study documentation
building plan for MEJCD and     concluded by July 2000     and Ministries'
MEFIS, based on institutional                              discussions records
assessments
*   Plan for staff        *   Review plan
development of MECJD      documentation
and MEFIS initiated by
Sep 2000
Project Components                                                       (Components to Outputs)
CONSOLIIDATION
Reinforcement of the Integrated    US$ 2,41 million                                *   Counterpart funding
Basic Education                                                                       timely disbursed
Reinforcement of the Training      US$ 0,87 million                                *   WB funding timely
Programs                                                                               disbursed
SECTOR STUDIES
Education Sector Review            US$ 1,25 million                                *   Key HR needed are
available for the project
Evaluation of Labor Force          US$ 0,73 million                                *   Private sector shows
Development Policies                                                                   interest in the project
*   Sound donor
coordination
FIELD TESTING/ CONSULTATION                              _
Field testing                      US$ 0,66 million                                *   Willingness of
Consultation and EEC                                                                    authorities and public to
explore innovative
models
CAPACITY BUILDING
Institutional Development          US$ 0,87 million
Project Coordination               US$ 0,58 million
* End of project
Note: Indicators will be reviewed and revised at annual reviews



Annex 2- Sector Policy Letter
Page 1 of 5
Annex 2: Sector Policy Letter
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization Project
April 26, 1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Mr. President,
We have the honor of communicating to you our Government's plans for the education
and training sector for the period 1999-2003. Our principal goals are to maintain and consolidate
the recent reforms in primary education and in training and to prepare the ground for the
development of a technically and financially sustainable education and training system,
responsive to Cape Verde's social and economic goals.
Global Macroeconomic Framework
Our planned modernization of the education/training system takes into account the
country's macroeconomic situation and growth prospects. In particular, our national development
plan recognizes that as a small island economy we must develop economic links with the major
world markets - the European Union, MERCOSUR and NAFTA. Even if potential market
opportunities such as offshore services, tourism, ready-to-wear clothing and electronics can be
developed, we are likely to remain a labor exporter. Lacking adequate rainfall and other natural
advantages, our principal resource is our people. Consequently, the content and level of our
education and training programs must be designed to take into account future job markets, at
home and abroad. During their productive lives, Cape Verde's citizens may be required to change
jobs or fields of specialization several times as fast-changing technology and work methods make
earlier training outdated or irrelevant. Consequently, we consider that the acquisition of learning
skills (learning how to leam) and a solid grounding in languages, mathematics, science and
technology acquired through a quality general education are the best preparation for life. In terms
of short term labor requirements, Cape Verde needs a responsive, cost-effective training system
based on the solid support of the private sector, government and other beneficiaries. It has begun
to establish such a system.



Annex 2- Sector Policy Letter
Page 2 of 5
Education and Training Sector
Our country has already been successful in laying the foundations for a national
education/training system by expanding primary education to full enrollment while improving its
quality and setting up a flexible training program and related employment services. However, our
education and training system is far from complete. Inportant programs remain to be developed
and we are in the process of exploring alternative approaches to the development of a modem
system based on the latest pedagogical research and adapted to the fast evolving economic and
technological realities. Consequently, our Government seeks IDA's technical and financial
support for the project whose goal is to identify, study and evaluate program options and to field-
test those with the most promise in terms of effectiveness, costs and financial sustainability. We
expect these studies to provide a satisfactory basis for launching our planned medium-term
investment program in human resources - the Programa de Desenvolvimiento dos Recursos
Humanos - PDRH (Human Resources Development Program) - which we hope will benefit from
the financial support of all the donors.
Institutional Framework
To enable the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Training
respond to the challenge of developing a modem education/training system, we plan to carry out
an institutional assessment of the two ministries in order to strengthen both central and regional
services. A key goal will be to develop institutional capacity in the areas of planning, program
implementation and economic analysis. In this connection, the project would provide for
technical assistance to identify specific development needs, draw up a plan of action and initiate
related staff training.
Policies, Strategies and Application Measures
Education
Pre-school. Already 60% of the children in the target age group attend pre-school. The
rapid growth of this level of education with sponsorship by the private sector, the municipalities
and NGOs is offset by the disparities in quality and coverage. Pre-school staff are rarely
qualified, the facilities do not meet minimum educational and sanitary standards and the cost is
beyond the means of poor parents. Our policy is to increase participation and improve the quality
of education while continuing to promote sponsorship by non-governmental entities. Our
strategy is to evaluate the pedagogical, economic and sanitary conditions in existing schools in
order to set standards, identify corrective measures and consider ways and means of increasing the
participation of poor families.
Basic Education. The policy is to improve quality while maintaining equal access. We
also seek to develop a better articulation of the curriculum with that of secondary education and to
develop a satisfactory skills/knowledge profile for those leaving at the end (grade 9) of the
proposed period of compulsory education. Our strategy is to conduct an in-depth pedagogical
evaluation of a sample of schools in order to determine ways for improving this level of
schooling. In the short term, we expect to implement the following measures: review the current
policy of student assessment and make recommendations for remedying the high incidence of
repetition rates in grades 2, 4 and 6; ensure that pupils have textbooks and that teachers have



Annex 2- Sector Policy Letter
Page 3 of 5
instructional guides; take the necessary steps to make the Textbook Fund operate more efficiently;
improve teachers' in-service training by launching an initial trial of distance learning using new
pedagogical approaches and technologies; and respond to the pressure of rapid growth in urban
areas by constructing additional classrooms.
Secondary education is characterized by rapid growth in light of the extension of
compulsory education to grade 9, a policy decision that is now under review. This growth brings
with it concomitant constraints in terms of budget and human resources. The share of the national
budget for education and training is already substantial and the possibility of increasing
allocations to the sector is limited by the overall growth of the economy unless savings or cuts in
other sectors can be achieved. Our policy is therefore to ensure that secondary programs are
adapted to economic and individual needs and are technically feasible, cost-effective and
financially sustainable within available and foreseeable means. Our strategy is to: (i) project
future enrollments and review the school map in order to quantify infrastructure investments for
the period 2001-2020; and (ii) evaluate existing and proposed secondary school models in the
light of best practice, estimating operating costs, likely achievement levels and internal efficiency,
as well as assessing the potential acceptance of related diplomas by universities and employers.
Some measures are already under consideration. They involve strengthening the quality of
teaching in the areas of languages, mathematics, technology and computer science, using distance
learning but also exploring the possibility of training "polyvalent" teachers (from grade 5 up).
Higher Education. Our policy is to develop highly qualified personnel, capable of
meeting the standards of both domestic and foreign employers, facilitating Cape Verde's
integration into the globalization process, with optimum use of public and private investment.
This will require optimizing our overseas study programs, based on an ongoing student loan
scheme, and re-organizing and adapting existing national institutes to respond to the various needs
of government, the private sector and individuals. The new configuration proposed for the
existing institutes is expected to respect several key criteria. These include: flexibility and
responsiveness to demand (programs are initiated, developed or closed as and when labor market
needs change) cost-sharing by beneficiaries; maximum utilization of local human resources (use
of part-time staff); and cost-effective working methods (partnerships with the private sector,
government, twinning with foreign universities) designed to provide relevant, up-to-date and
financially sustainable programs. Our strategy is to review the pedagogical results and living
standards of students abroad as well as how their studies are organized and financed in order to
define and negotiate new arrangements with selected host universities and thus optimize their
cost-effectiveness. We will also assess our national institutions, their results, their costs and the
operational and financial difficulties that they face. We expect to discuss these findings with
stakeholders and potential partners in a series of forums which will provide the opportunity to
inform participants about the development and financing policies of other countries with
comparable income, population and geography, as well as about cost-effective innovations such as
distance learning. We hope that this process will produce the main components of a strategic
development plan for higher education, to be implemented within the framework of the PDRH.
Employment and Training
Employment. Our employmentpolicy aims at contributing to a favorable environment
for investment and job creation. Our strategy is to establish a legal and institutional framework
comprising a labor code, reflecting Cape Verde's development strategy and providing investors/
employers with clear rules about hiring and dismissing employees; employment surveys ensuring



Annex 2- Sector Policy Letter
Page 4 of 5
feedback on labor supply, unemployment and emigration; and an efficientjob placement service.
Measures: The Ministry of Employment and Training will: (i) participate in the definition of a
new regulatory framework under the guidance of the Ministry of Justice (with financing under the
proposed IDA credit for public sector reform); (ii) fine-tune the current employment surveys and
(iii) establish performance criteria for the Employment Centers operated by the Employment and
Training Institute - IEFP.
Vocational Training. Our policy is to address the needs identified by employers in the
private and public sectors as well as the needs of individuals who wish to improve themselves,
through tailor-made programs co-financed largely by the beneficiaries. At the institutional level,
our strategy is to: (i) clarify vocational training policies by rationalizing current legislation in the
form of a new law; (ii) promote and activate the National Advisory Council for Employment and
Training through training seminars and workshops so that it can better represent the interests of its
clients-the private sector, unions, Government; and (iii) prepare a "facility" map indicating types
of available and proposed training programs, their location and available infrastructure and human
resources. Regarding training, we plan to explore the potential market for integrated sector
training designed to meet the specifications of managers in key sectors such as tourism.
Measures: In order to ensure the financial sustainability of the programs, we will conduct an
annual study of the capacity of companies and beneficiaries to co-finance training. We also plan
to strengthen the IEFP's capacity to evaluate the economic and social impact and cost-
effectiveness of the country's ongoing labor market programs. These programs include:
*  direct programs: job creation through social funds, public works schemes, micro-enterprises,
training programs aimed at reintegration of the unemployed into the workforce, subsidizing
salaries and providing job search assistance
*  indirect programs including social security and related services such as health insurance,
unemployment insurance
Liberalization of the Sector
Government policy is to encourage competition in the education/training sector with a
view to increasing efficiency while providing clients with a wider choice of programs. Our
strategy involves the following:
*  Studying the legal, financial and fiscal incentives for the development of a private
sector in education and training
*  Establishing pedagogical, sanitary and safety standards aimed at the protection of
clients
*  Exploring the possibilities of sub-contracting state-financed education/training
programs to the private sector



Annex 2- Sector Policy Leter
Page 5 of 5
Certain steps have already been taken. The public sector has established good working
relations with the private sector, notably in the provision of demand-driven, co-financed training
programs. The higher education institutes are encouraged to supplement their budgets by
undertaking research work or training for the private sector. The pre-school sub-sector has been
liberalized and the majority of the providers are NGOs and private individuals. Finally, the
private sector has begun to establish schools at the primary and secondary levels and post-
secondary programs in such fields as business, accounting and computer education.
Praia, Apzit 26, 1999
fio  Primberto do Rost rio
'ylI ePrime Minister



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 1 of 8
Annex 3: Detailed Project Description
Republic of Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization Project
The project will maintain and consolidate the recent reforms in primary education (grades 1-6) and
in demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs initiated under the PEBF and assist
Government in carrying out a comprehensive sector study, addressing issues of quality and equity,
in order to identify cost-effective options for the sustainable development of the education/ training
system throughthe medium term. The project will also provide the underpinnings for a human
resource development program which Govermment intends to launch in 2001 with broad donor
support.
Project Component 1: Education And Training Consolidation US$ 3.281 million (total cost of
component)
The goal is to maintain and consolidate the recent reforms in primary education (grades 1-6) and
workforce development (demand-driven training and apprenticeship programs) initiated under the
PEBF.
Sub-component 1.1 Reinforcement of the Integrated Basic Education.
Background. The PEBF promoted a cluster school approach, with a " polo" school providing
pedagogic and administrative support to smaller satellite schools and established a school map as
the basis for infrastructure development. The program also increased schoolroom capacity to
accommodate grades 5 and 6 at schools which formerly accommodated only grades 1-4. Although
245 classrooms were financed under the PEBF, the needs were not fully met: in urban areas, for
instance, many schools are presently required to teach in three shifts to accommodate the rapidly
growing student population. The project also assisted in the supply of textbooks and teacher guides
(a total of 700,000 textbooks, representing 37 different titles, were published and distributed).
Implementation went well but the system was not sustainable. Proceeds from the sale of books
supplemented by Government grants have been deposited into the FEE, but the Fund is poorly
managed.
Scope and objectives. This sub-component would: (a) construct additional classrooms and (b)
ensure that textbooks are available on a sustainable basis.
a) Primary school infrastructure
Description. The project would address the continuing need for upgrading and equipping
classrooms in cluster schools located in areas of high population growth.
Implementation. The construction program for SY 2000-2001 was prepared by the GEDSE, based
on the school map. Municipalities would continue to provide the land for expansion at selected
cluster schools. In consultation with the PCU, the Ministry of Infrastructure would launch the
bidding process, evaluate bids and supervise the works.



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 2 of 8
Financing. The Credit would finance: (i) the construction and furnishing of 60 classrooms (3,600
student places-double-shift basis) for SY 2000-2001, following the standard design developed
under the PEBF.
b) Textbooks and teacher guides.
Description. The project would ensure sustainability of the textbooks operation by addressing the
following needs: (i) reprinting the main primary school textbooks for school years 2000-2001
(Portuguese for grades 2,5,6; and Mathematics and Science for grades 2 through 6), approximately
510,000 books; (ii) reprinting teacher guides (approximately 55,000 copies); (iii) preparing a second
edition of the textbooks and guides based on the results of the school qualitative assessment to be
developed under component 2.1 below; and (iv) strengthening the management of the FEE, by
contracting a manager, improving accounting and cost-recovery, and reviewing the Fund's operating
regulations. In the medium term, Government would seek to contract the printing, distribution, and
retailing of books to the private sector while retaining responsibility for editing and providing
subsidies to the poor. A market survey would assess the private sector's interest and capacity for
responding to this goal. The effectiveness of ICASE's administration and targeting of subsidies
would be assessed under component 2.1 below (sector financial review).
Implementation. The IP would be responsible for editorial reviews to ensure that textbook content
reflects the curriculum. The MECJD Secretary General would supervise management of the FEE,
liaising with the PCU on procurement matters. The DGEBS would be in charge of organizing
textbook distribution with local retailers and MECJD regional offices. ICASE would continue to
distribute textbooks to the poorest students. The FCG would provide technical assistance for staff
development and the preparation of a second edition of the textbooks and guides.
Financing. The Credit would finance: (i) the reprinting of 270,000 books (while another 240,000
copies would be financed by the FEE); (ii) the reprinting of 55,000 teacher guides; (iii) technical
assistance and operating costs of the FEE; and (iv) the costs of editorial workshops and the costs of
preparing camera-ready copy relative to a planned second edition.
Sub-component 1.2 - Reinforcement of the Training Programs
Background. Under the PEBF, the FPEF was established to provide training on the basis of
specific proposals and cost-sharing by private and public enterprises and agencies. The CA reviews
proposals in the light of agreed criteria and procedures laid down in the Implementation Manual.
Between 1995 and 1998, 52 training programs have been implemented, with 885 trainees. Training
covers many sectors, including: manufacturing, services, tourism and the state enterprises. A recent
technical review of the FPEF found that 90% of the trainees completed their programs and that both
trainees and employers were satisfied with the relevance and quality of the training. The project
also created an apprenticeship program which gives school dropouts a chance to get work
experience and both formal and on-the-job training. Of about 1082 trained youths, about 60%
found jobs upon graduation. A survey found that employers were satisfied with the skill levels and
productivity of the apprentices.
The PEBF also helped establish the CNEF - a tripartite consultative body, comprising employers,
unions and Government, which is charged with developing employment and training policies. The
board of directors of the FPEF, the CA, has a similar tripartite composition. Both entities have
encountered operational difficulties in carrying out their mandates. This may be attributed mainly



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 3 of 8
to the lack of a staff development program, a shortcoming which would be addressed by the
proposed project.
The PEBF also supported institutional development - creation of an employment service, with
information on the job market provided by regular, quarterly employment surveys and related staff
development at the IEFP.
Scope and objectives. This component would provide bridging funds to accomplish Government's
objectives of: (i) enhancing the quality, relevance and responsiveness of on-demand training and
apprenticeship programs while increasing cost-sharing by beneficiaries; (ii) strengthening the
sector's policy and advisory bodies; and (iii) improving the quality and efficiency of employment
surveys and job placement services.
a) Training and Apprenticeship
Description. In the medium term, the FPEF's sustainability would depend on greater financial
participation by the beneficiaries 1 Now that the training fund mechanism has been tested, the
Ministry considers that training can be marketed to the private sector and to the general public on a
more systematic basis. To this end, the project would facilitate the Fund's transition to greater
client financial support through marketing by providing bridgingfunds to operate about 15
enterprise-specific training courses per year, with increasing financial participation of the client
firms. The Fund would give priority to one or two key sectors (tourism seems a likely candidate)
attractive to investors and with promise for job creation. The client(s) would become more directly
involved in the conception, delivery and evaluation of training. The process would be to establish a
high-level contact group for the selected sector(s), comprising senior managers, chambers of
commerce and trade associations, to guide and monitor the development of tailored programs. The
group would commit to appointing technical personnel in their employment to advise on the design
of courses and to evaluate trainee performance. The contact group would also provide on-the-job
training sites (for example, in tourism, at hotels and travel agencies) for the practical component.
With regard to the general public, the Ministry would publicize those courses which individuals
could take on a payment basis. In terms of apprenticeship, the Institute would train about 185
apprentices per year for three years while exploring altematives for increased cost-sharing by
interested small enterprises, thereby enhancing the scope and impact of the program.
Implementation. The CA would be responsible for reviewing and selecting proposals for training
received from enterprises on the basis of existing, satisfactory criteria and procedures. In
collaboration with the Institute, the CA would appoint small teams to explore the potential for
marketing training by sector and to the general public. The IEFP would implement the
apprenticeship program. Both the Fund and the apprenticeship program would be audited annually.
Financing. The Credit would finance demand-driven training (FPEF) and apprenticeship programs,
with increasing beneficiary participation based on an annual study of enterprises' and individuals'
capacity to pay. The programs would train about 285 skilled workers p.a. (an average of about 15
programs p.a.) and about 185 apprentices p.a., totaling 555 by 2002. Cost-sharing averages about
30 percent p.a. currently for the skilled worker training program. However, cost-sharing would be
introduced for the first time for apprentices, beginning with a 10 percent p.a. individual
contribution.
Notwithstanding any subsidies that may be granted to new enterprises or enterprises that are unable
to contribute because of limited cash flow.



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 4 of S
b) Strengthening advisory and policy bodies
Description. The project would provide specialized assistance, advisors and facilitators, to help the
CNEF and the CA identify and diagnose operational difficulties, clarify the members'
responsibilities both to their council and to their constituencies and explore new ways of working
together. Staff development workshops would also provide a forum to review the policy
implications of the studies and evaluations described in component 2.2.
Implementation. The MEFIS has oversight of these consultative bodies. The GEDS would be
responsible for implementing the staff development program.
Financing. The Credit would finance the costs of specialist services and workshops.
c) Strengthening of employment surveys and job placement services
Description. The project would help to update and improve employment surveys including the
survey on emigration. This survey can provide useful inputs for policy and economic forecasting
(remittances, at over 20% of GDP, are a driving force in the economy) at a time when immigration
policies are changing in destination countries, particularly in Europe. The resulting database would
also be valuable in identifying the interests and skills of overseas Cape Verde nationals who have
the potential for contributing to development and investment in the islands. The project would
assist the Employment Centers in establishing baseline costs for its services including key
indicators such as costs per placement, efficiency of services and employer satisfaction.
Implementation and Financing. The GEDS and IEFP would oversee these activities. The Credit
would finance specialist services, costs of surveys and related databases as well as the training of
staff in the use of these databases.
Project Component 2 - Education And Training Modernization - Sector Studies -- US$ 1.978
Million (total cost of component)
Objectives and Scope. This component seeks to assist Govemnment in the future development of the
ETS by carrying out: (i) a comprehensive education sector review and (ii) an evaluation of
employment and training policies and programs. These activities would provide a perspective for
overall medium to long term development of the ETS by serving as a basis for agreement on
strategic options and their phasing in the context of the PDRH. Certain promising options will be
field-tested (see component 3 below), preparing the way for their eventual scaling-up.
Sub-component 2.1 - Education Sector Review
Description. One weakness of the current framework for the education and training system is the
lack of information about what works and what does not. This sub-component would provide a
comprehensive sector review, comprising the following key activities: (i) an assessment of the pre-
school program; (ii) a school-based quality assessment of primary and secondary schools, taking
stock of achievements in primary education and evaluating programs at the rapidly expanding
secondary level (notably the new technical/vocational program) and addressing the issues stated in
the PAD, Part B, para 2; and (iii) higher education: a review of the existing overseas scholarship -
program and measures for improving its cost-effectiveness and a feasibility study relative to the
consolidation of the existing institutes to provide a coherent program of academic and continuing



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 5 of 8
education studies meeting the needs of individuals, business and Governmuent on a cost-sharing
basis. In the light of these assessments field-testing of new teaching/learning packages, new
teaching technologies, school-based initiatives to improve quality and efficiency would be
promoted (see sub-component 3).
Implementation. The school-based qualitative assessment would examine the inputs influencing
school performance (the effectiveness of infrastructure planning - the school map - , the furnishing
and equipment of schools and supply of didactic materials, the adequacy of budgets at the school
level and parental and community support), in-schoolfactors and processes (school leadership, staff
and student goals and morale, teacher quality, instructional time budget, instructional methods and
feedback mechanisms) and outcomes (learning achievement, social skills and job opportunities).
The methodology would be field assessments at the school level conducted by roving teams
(principals, teachers, pedagogical advisors) on the basis of agreed protocols for interviewing
students, parents, teachers, administrators and employees, classroom observation and data
collection. School visits would include focus groups and interviews with teachers, students and
parents to obtain their individual views. The qualitative assessment would be complemented by
analytical studies related to internal efficiency and financial aspects stated in the PAD, Part B, para
2. In the light of these assessments, the appropriateness of different models for primary and
secondary education would be explored as well as cost-effective measures for strengthening the
teaching of languages, science, math and computer skills. Workshops and study tours would be
organized to infonn and educate staff about relevant research and other countries' experience.
Financing. The Credit would finance the costs of studies and assessments including technical
assistance, workshops and field visits, and related operating costs.
Sub-component 2.2 - Evaluation of Labor Force Development Policies
Description. The project would assist in: (i) a review of vocational training policies including: the
respective roles of the public and private sectors, the licensing and inspection of private sector
training centers; incentives for the private sector; the articulation between formal education and
vocational training in terms of pre-requisites (skills, knowledge) for transfer; compatibility and
acceptance of certificates and diplomas awarded in Cape Verde by emigration destination countries;
the certification requirements of private and public sector occupations2; (ii) an evaluation of the
financial contributions of employers to the FPEF and apprenticeship programs, and an economic
impact and cost-effectiveness of the Ministry's current micro-enterprise and credit programs and the
exploration of new models and (iii) the development of a facility map for the training sub-sector. In
the absence of a planning service in the Secretariat of State (a ministry since 1997), the development
of vocational training (except for the FEFP) has been financed by donors island by island, on a
supply basis. In order to re-orient the sub-system toward a more demand-driven approach, a first
step is to establish a dynamic database for the existing training centers comprising course offerings,
standards and qualifications, instructors and support staff, facilities, equipment and annual budgets.
Implementation. The IEFP would be responsible for implementing the policy review, in
consultation with the CNEF and the CA, as well as the evaluation of ongoing labor market
programs. The GEDS would develop the facility map.
2    In the area of labor policies, the Ministry's Departnent of Labor would designate staff to participate
in the review of public and private sector regulation, to be implemented under the Projecto de reforma e
capacita,cao do sector publico (public sector reform and capacity building project).



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 6 of 8
Financing. The Credit would finance the costs of studies including technical assistance, workshops,
staff development and operating costs
Component 3 - Field Testing And Consultation -- US$0.659 Million (total cost of component)
Objectives and scope. This component would enable the field-testing andlor adaptation of new
teaching/learning packages, new teaching technologies, school-based initiatives to improve quality
and efficiency. It would also pilot new approaches in Information-Education-Communication
(IEC).
a) Field Testing of Selected Options
Description. Proposals for field-testing would be reviewed in terns of agreed criteria, potential
impact on quality, technical and institutional feasibility, cost-effectiveness and financial
sustainability. Proposals would be submitted by MECJD departnents. The PIC would review
proposals for pilot testing to assess whether they meet the eligibility criteria. The PIC is
representative of the key directorates and has the competencies required for detailed review.
Proposals would provide the following elements of infonnation:
*  an assessment of the option/measure's impact on classroom processes or acquisition of
knowledge and skills
* a brief review of the international experience regarding its application (outcomes, operational
difficulties encountered)
* an analysis of its cost-effectiveness and likely budgetary impact at scale
* proposed arrangements for monitoring and evaluation including an indication of expected
outcomes
* the implementation plan providing impiementation team composition, any requirements for
technical assistance, the choice of field sites (and the criteria for their selection) and the
proposed timetable, the line item budget and contingency provisions
* a preliminary analysis of the staff, training and budgetary requirements for "scaling-up" and the
possible phasing
Proposals would be submitted to the PIC one month before its regular meeting to permit sufficient
review time. The PIC would prepare a fornal recommendation in collaboration with the PCU for
the minister's approval. Once obtained, the proposal would be submitted to IDA for approval.
Progress in implementing field tests would be reviewed annually by Government, IDA and other
concemed donors. Technical supervision would be provided by the extemal specialists recruited by
the PCU (see PAD Part C, para 4).
Two proposals are being prepared by MECJD and are likely to be tested early in the project: the IP
is working with Brazilian technical assistance to explore distance learning at the primary level, for
teacher upgrading and pedagogical outreach for Cape Verde's highly dispersed teaching force. A
complementary initiative is the piloting of teaching resource centers in selected cluster schools,
with the assistance (technical assistance and equipment) of the FCG. The pedagogical resource
centers which are designed to support teachers through mentoring, problem solving, and access to
pedagogical materials, would be staffed by experienced senior teachers. The centers might support
the distance leaming initiative by making work stations available to teachers in the cluster for the
preparation of teaching materials and by providing electronic mail to the IP. This initiative is likely
to be tested early in the project.



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 7 of 8
Other initiatives would be identified as a result of the evaluations, studies, and reviews of
international experience conducted under Component 2.
Implementation. The DGEBS would be assisted by the IP in the field-testing at pre-school and
primary education levels, and by the ISE in the field-testing of secondary level initiatives.
Financing. The Credit would finance the operating costs of field testing, pedagogical materials, and
related technical assistance.
b) Consultation and IEC
Objectives and Scope. A major goal of the consultative process is to educate stakeholders and the
public at large about Cape Verde's social and economic goals, their relation to the world at large,
and the implications for the future of education and training. An initial identification of
stakeholders (' partes interessadas") has been made (see Implementation Manual). The choices
regarding programs would be complex, with far-reaching political and financial implications. These
choices should be the subject of a broad-based democratic process of consultation with due regard
for cultural and historical characteristics of the different islands. The archipelagic character of the
country also makes consultation a difficult process, even though the overall population is small.
Description. Consultation would be an integral part of each component. Component 2 would seek
to get parents' views on: the quality of instruction, the functioning of cluster schools, parental
access to teachers and principals, textbooks and school-meal subsidies, and current policies and
practices (pre-school, multi-grade teaching, students 's promotion, double shifts). In Component 3,
field-testing proposals would be shared with the parents at pilot schools and they would be briefed
regularly on progress. In order to inform the general public about educational issues, a new
television discussion series has been proposed (three broadcasts per year) on the "Education Forum"
program. The Internet, now accessible on most of the islands, may also facilitate exchanges of
views. The two teacher training institutes have Web Sites on which news about education reform
can be posted. There is also a plan to install 'telesalas" in community halls. These would provide a
natuiral Web access point for citizens.
Implementation. There is sufficient local capacity in the two teacher training Institutes (IP and ISE),
in the Adult Education Service, and at Radio Televisao do Cabo Verde (RTCV) to prepare these
simple discussion programs, using the existing studio and production facilities to implement the
series. The two institutes would prepare the content of the broadcasts, with advice on presentation
provided by the RTCV. There is currently ample unprogrammed broadcast time.
Financing. The Credit would finance the costs of technical assistance, workshops, field surveys,
and operating costs.
Component 4-Capacity Building -- US$1.444 million (total cost of component)
Objectives and Scope. Over the next decade, the MECJD and the MEFIS would be called upon to
implement a broad program of modemization. The project would assist: (i) an institutional
assessment of the two ministries and their institutes; (ii) capacity-building based on the
recommendations from these assessments; and (iii) project coordination.



Annex 3 - Detailed Project Description
Page 8 of 8
Sub-component 4.1 - Institutional Development
Description. Institutional assessments of the two ministries would be carried out during Year 1 of
the project, with the objective of streamlining and strengthening key services, adapting them to the
implementation requirements of a sector-wide approach to development. The assessments would
cover the MECJD's central, regional and school level services, the IP and ISE, (focussing on costs
and effectiveness of the teaching force) the MEFIS, the IEFP and its decentralized services. On the
basis of recommendations emanating from these assessments, the project would implement a
capacity-building program designed to strengthen the relevant technical, administrative, financial
and procurement departments of the ministries. Special attention would be given to the
strengthening of planning, economic analysis and management of decentralized field operations. A
work program designed to strengthen economic analysis is given in Annex 5. Active participation
of MECJD and MEFIS in the assessments would provide opportunities for capacity building in
refonn assessment and for relating reform needs to staff development needs.
Implementation. The assessments would be conducted under the guidance of the OVPM and in
conjunction with the agencies responsible for the ongoing public sector reform. The staff
development activities would be the responsibility of the MECJD and MEFIS, with the support of
technical assistance.
Financing. The Credit would finance technical assistance, materials and operating costs.
Sub-component 4.2 - Project Coordination
Description. Pending the findings of the institutional assessments, the existing satisfactory
coordination arrangements for the ongoing project would be maintained. Subsequently, coordination
responsibilities in administration, finance and procurement would be transferred to the relevant
ministerial departments through a specific capacity-building program including training and
support. In the interim, the PCU coordinator, under the OVPM, would continue to work closely with
the component coordinators of MECJD and MEFIS programs in the day-to-day management of the
ongoing and proposed projects, ensuring continuity. Specifically, the PCU would handle the
procurement of technical assistance, goods and services related to the project. It would ensure
overall financial management. The two component coordinators would monitoiproject activities in
their respective ministries, advising the responsible departments on programming, planning and
implementation procedures.
Implementation.. A Project Implementation Committee (PIC), comprising the coordinators and the
directors of the concerned ministry services, would be established to monitor implementation,
review proposals for the field-testing of new programs/methods, and resolve operating problems.
The PIC would also be responsible for preparing annual implementation reviews. External
monitoring. The PCU, in collaboration with the component coordinators would organize annual
reviews of project implementation, based on technical reports, progress reports and expenditure
statements of the past year and on proposed work programs and budgets for the following year.
Donors active in the sector will be consulted and receive copies of reports. The PCU would also
conduct semi-annual reviews j ointly with the relevant departments of MECJD and MEFIS. To
prepare the semester and annual reviews, the PCU may call on senior specialists to provide quality
control, guidance and insight into recent international experience.
Financing. The Credit would finance: (i) training costs; (ii) consultant services; (iii) equipment,
office maintenance, vehicles and travel related to coordination; and (iv) the costs of annual audits.



Annex 4- Estimated Project Costs
Page 1 of I
Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization Project
Project Component                               Local        Foreign        Total
-----------------------US$ thousand----------------
CONSOLIIDATION
1. Education And Training Consolidation         1,502         1,574         3,076
1.1 Reinforcement of the Integrated Basic Education  0,741  1,514        2,255
1.2 Reinforcement of the Training Programs    0,761        0,060         0,821
MODERNIZATION
2. Sector Studies                               0,780         1,080         1,860
2.1 Education Sector Review                  0,437         0,738         1,175
2.2 Evaluation of Labor Force Development Policies    0,343  0,342       0,685
3. Field Testing/ Consultation                  0,180         0,438         0,618
4. Capacity Building                            0,751         0,613         1,364
4.1 Institutional Development                0,464         0,355         0,819
4.2 Project Coordination                     0,287         0,258         0,545
Total                                           3,213         3,705         6,917
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                        0,133        0,167         0,300
Price Contingencies                           0,067        0,077         0,144
Total Project Cost                              3,413         3,949         7,362



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 1 of 7
Annex 5: Proposed Economic and Financial Analysis
and Related Staff Development
Cape Verde: Education and Training Consolidation
and Modernization Project
Context
To date, Government services have done very little economic analysis as this is a new, yet to be
developed, skill in the services involved (Education, Labor, and Training). Hitherto, specific
tasks such as evaluation of the FPEF were contracted to outside sources. The results, while useful
in terms of re-orienting operational procedures, shed little light on cost-effectiveness and did not
further economic capacity in the services. Consequently, economic analysis capacity still has to
be developed in those directorates responsible for advising the educational and training sector
leaders on future strategy and program options. Developing this capacity and educating the
leadership to use it for decision-making is a key objective of the proposed project whose main
thrust is to develop cost-effective, financially sustainable options for further development of the
education/ training system. Cape Verde is at a crossroads. In education major decisions have to
be taken on the character of the lower and upper secondary curricula and on the institutional form
of post-secondary and higher education. There are also choices to be made about the delivery of
programs. The archipelagic character of the country contributes to a variety of operational
difficulties in terms of in-service training, provision of pedagogical support services and
diseconomies of scale in the teaching of science and other high cost curricula. Consequently,
alternative approaches such as distance teaching must be explored. Outside the ongoing PEBF
project, a broad array of vocational training programs, financed by a variety of donors and
addressing different clients (enterprises and the chronic unemployed), operate with little or no
feedback on their effectiveness. Underpinning both education and training programs are a variety
of subsidies. Little is known about their cost-effectiveness. An important goal of the proposed
project is to help Cape Verde make informed decisions about programs and their delivery on the
basis of their costs, effectiveness and economic impact, providing planning elements for the future
development of the system.
Issues and priorities for analysis
At the pre-school/primary level, the principal issues are as follows:
* Careful review of the costs implicit in draft Government plans to extend pre-school (now at
60% coverage, mainly delivered by the private sector)
*  The need to establish and monitor unit costs and expenditure for salaries, instructional
materials, and pedagogical support services (the share of non-salary expenditures as an
indicator of quality)
*  Post-independence teacher salaries were set high, to attract teachers and now represent about
90%' of recurrent expenditures. The built-in age/grade composition and promotion polices
risk crowding out the didactic expenditures essential to maintenance of educational quality



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 2 of 7
*  Subsidies in terms of textbooks, school meals and transport and health services are provided
by a semi-autonomous agency (ICASE) and have not been integrated into unit costs - the
basis for their calculation and the mechanisms for their allocation, together with growth
tendencies, require study
*  Repetition: The current policy of student assessment in grades 2, 4 and 6 is expensive in
terms of per pupil annual costs, creating greater demand for teachers and slowing the
production of graduates while doing little to improve achievement
*  Class-size: the tendency is to promote uneconomically small classes when larger classes
and/or multi-grade teaching could provide quality instruction to larger groups, with teacher
cost savings
*  Parents' share of schooling costs (textbooks, uniforms, supplies) which may pose increasing
difficulties as more families have children continuing their studies in secondary school
*  Decentralization: current budget mechanisms will need strengthening. Consequently, the
proposed measures for delegating management responsibilities to the regions/municipalities,
including the monitoring of cost-sharing, expenditures and objects of expenditure, need
careful study
At the secondary level, the rapid expansion of lower secondary school and the extension of
obligatory schooling to grade 9 are having a dramatic impact on secondary enrollments. In
response Government has embarked on an ambitious program of secondary school expansion
under which the general secondary school developed with assistance from AfDB will be
complemented by a new type of secondary technical school offering technical and vocational
training, providing 20-30% of all secondary places by 2004. Investment costs are some 20%
higher than for general secondary schools because of the specialized facilities - there will be
seven technical streams. Thus far, no Government estimate of operating costs is available but
international experience suggests they will be 20-30% higher than for general secondary schools.
Two existing technical schools have been pilot testing a curriculum which is technical (but not
vocational) in character, providing an introduction to technology, and much less expensive to
establish and operate. Unfortunately, this experience has not been evaluated with a view to
providing guidance for the further development of technical education. A workshop on secondary
education held in 1996 stressed the importance of an early evaluation and warned that
technical/vocational courses requiring special facilities and equipment would probably not be
financially sustainable over the medium to long term. At the secondary level, the key issues are:
*  The future budgetary impact of salaries due to the age/grade composition of the relatively
highly-paid teachers, and of proposals for a high cost corps of technical/vocational teachers
*  The danger of an imbalance in budget allocations, favoring technical/vocational at the
expense of general secondary education
*  The feasibility and affordability of the proposed secondary technical/vocational training
program - in particular. the feasibility of three shifts, of financing specialist teachers and the
high costs (supplies, equipment replacement and repair) associated with such programs (20 to
30% more costly than general secondary programs)



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 3 of 7
*  The need to separate salary and boarding costs from the PIP and allocate them to the
concerned secondary programs
*  The lack of clarity of the Education PIP and its delayed production, result in a failure to
provide timely analysis of the recurrent cost implications. As a consequence, some
infrastructure projects have already been tendered intemationally, apparently without
appropriate screening as to recurrent costs and financial sustainability, ensuring consistency
with the recurrent budget
*  The current inadequate level of official financing for textbooks, didactic materials, laboratory
supplies and replacement equipment (most parents can afford only the key texts for
Portuguese and math)
*  The ability of parents to pay for education - parents will face a growing challenge as the
number of in secondary school increases
At the tertiary level, the management of overseas scholarships studies financed by Government
and donors (together with interest-free student loans) appears to work well. However, there are
inherent inefficiencies in the dispersion of students in small groups at foreign universities. An
alternative strategy is being discussed with Govemnment - grouping students in larger numbers at
selected universities - which could lead to economies of scale and cost savings, as well as to
increased effectiveness due to the ability to finance counseling and remedial services, minimizing
drop-out and repetition. The unit costs of the tertiary institutes in the country require careful
scrutiny. The situation of the primary and secondary teacher training institutes is more re-
assuring. Increased demand means they can be operated on the basis of increased facility and
faculty utilization, reducing unit costs per trainee.
Vocational Training: The enterprises that benefit from the FPEF (which provides short-term, on-
demand training) make financial contributions (an average of about 20-30%). In the medium
term, the program's financial sustainability will depend on greater financial participation by the
beneficiaries, notwithstanding any subsidies that may be granted to new enterprises or enterprises
that are unable to contribute because of limited cash flow. A key task is to assess the current
levels of enterprise funding against company cash flow and payrolls, to determine financing
capacity versus actual contributions. Developing a detailed financing plan for the period beyond
2002, after the period of "bridge" financing by the proposed project, is a high priority. The same
concerns apply to the apprenticeship program. The proposed project would explore strategies for
cost-sharing. An examination of the costs and effectiveness of the employment services will be
carried out in 2000.
Priorities for action.
Sector managers need to be sensitized to the importance of economic analysis for decision-
making. Second, capacity-building has to get underway. In order to "jump start" the process, the
following actions have been taken:



Amnex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page4of 7
(a) in July 1998, senior officials from Education and Finance were successfully trained in the use
of a simulation model for financial analysis of the education sector, using data from other African
countries. A distinct model for Cape Verde is currently under development, decentralized by
island/school district to complement the school mapping process. Together with unit cost data on
program operations and on infrastructure, the costs of future expansion of the system can be
modeled.
(b) in September 1998, the two line ministers (MECJD and MEFIS) and senior staff participated
in a specially designed seminar which highlighted the importance of economic evaluation.
Next steps (first quarter CY1999) include two workshops on public expenditure review in
education, backstopped by specialist with strengths in economic and financial analysis and broad
international experience. The first in July 1999 aims at sensitizing a broad audience in the
Ministry of Finance, the MECJD and the MEFIS to the issues and to the guiding principles and
practices of public expenditure review. The second, in September 1999, will train a selected
number of staff (identified in the first workshop) in public expenditure review techniques, using
Cape Verde case studies based on the findings of the ongoing EU-sponsored review and
addressing specific issues (for example, the analysis of subsidies in primary education; the
estimate of operating costs for the future secondary technical/vocational schools). The goal is to
implement annual expenditure reviews, beginning 2000. Additional capacity will be developed in
the framework of each sector ministry's planning unit throughout the recruitment of TA. The goal
is that the two units work as a team with the Ministry of Finance in the preparation of the national
development plan, in the review of public expenditure and the investment budget.
The Work Program
Immediate Priorities: The firsttask on the critical path is to establish the baseline parameters
against which the impact of enrollment growth can be projected and the relative costs of program
altematives assessed. This task will be assigned to the initial team comprising the two expatriate
economists in MECJD and their assigned junior professionals. The parameters include, inter alia:
*  educational "effort" as percentage of GNP; estimation of average teacher salaries as a multiple
of GNP
*  projection of payroll costs under the present grade structure and promotion policies
*  establishment of the per pupil/year operating costs of the different programs (primary, lower
secondary and secondary)
*  the percentage share of program operating costs attributable to administrative overhead,
teacher salaries, books and materials and in-service training
*  estimation of municipalities' contributions to the education budget (recurrent and capital
expenditures -- including land)
*  calculation of the infrastructure costs per student for primary, lower secondary and secondary
schools on the basis of the most recent construction contracts
*   cost analysis of an infrastructure maintenance program meeting reasonable norms, on a
constructed, per pupil basis.
These data will be used in conjunction with enrollment projections derived from the education
simulation model to project annual recurrent costs (globally and by category of expenditure) and
to estimate investment in infrastructure required to meet likely expansion.



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 5 of 7
Short to Medium Term Priorities: An important priority is to explore equity issues, assessing to
what extent family income is likely to affect enrollment rates, particularly at the lower secondary
level (i.e. through the period of compulsory schooling - up to grade 9) and at the secondary level.
Enrollments in these programs are growing rapidly but little is known about their socioeconomic
composition. While there is currently gender parity in primary education, there is the fear that,
despite free schooling and some subsidies, enrollment growth will be progressively skewed in
favor of higher income groups and in favor of boys as family income is squeezed. The poverty
study found that: 40% of all households were headed by women and counted on average five
members; unemployment averages 25% of the active work force, with pockets of very high
unemployment on certain islands and among certain groups such as rural women; and that many
families are dependent on remittances and subsidies, both direct (food programs) and indirect
(public works employment).
As a first step, the economic team will work with the appropriate poverty staff to determine the
direct and indirect costs of schooling. Direct costs are likely to include: clothing - even if there
are no school uniforms parents spend rather more than they might normally to provide a better
standard of clothing for their children attending school; books and materials (textbooks, pens,
pencils, erasers, notebooks, rulers and school book bags or satchels); tuition costs (paying teachers
or other tutors for extra, after school hours instruction; membership fees to parents' associations or
school associations, transportation costs; and boarding costs (particularly at the secondary level).
Opportunity costs are difficult to estimate, given high unemployment. One approach may be to
estimate what eligible youth might eam through work under the various unemployment programs
or in the informal sector, mainly petty trade. Estimating costs to parents for pre-school will be
rather more difficult as this private sector program, while providing 60 per cent coverage of the
age group, is mainly informal. The approach will be to enlist the municipal authorities to help
establish a sample of schools in which owners (operating costs and profit margin) and parents
(direct and indirect costs) can be surveyed. If possible, a survey of physical/sanitary conditions
could be "piggy-backed" on this investigation.
The next step will be to examine the targeting and cost-effectiveness of existing subsidies. The
most important of these is the school meal program. With food provided by the WFP, this
program has until recently provided school meals to all primary schools and is widely credited
with attracting and keeping poor children in school. However, the program ends in 2001. Thus,
there is an urgent need to evaluate costs, impact on school retention and the efficiency of the
delivery system. This differs in rural (volunteer community staffing) and urban areas (hired staff).
It will be important to compare these findings with those relative to other interventions (in school
health care, for example). In the event that the evidence argues for maintaining the present form
of subsidy, the study findings should pennit efficiency gains in terms of the fine-tuning of
systems and/or through targeting via poverty data. In terms of school books about 70 percent of
families pay into the textbooks fund while the social institution ICASE provides free textbooks to
the remaining 30 per cent, identifying recipients through headmasters and teachers. Given the
high percentage of poor families, this 70/30 split suggests rather crude targeting. However, a
UNICEF report suggests that over 90 per cent of children do have access to books. Although
textbooks are cheap (costs are about $4 per student on average-math, Portuguese and science
books), the situation could change when compulsory schooling is extended through grade 9. The
cost effectiveness of the FEE and ICASE's procedures will be evaluated in the light of experience



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 6 of 7
elsewhere. School books are an important production factor in learning and can often cushion the
impact of poor teaching.
As far as public and private returns to investment, the project will design and launch four priority
studies to inform future policy. They include:
*  returns to higher education, comparing study overseas with (theoretical)university studies
locally
*  remittances and their relation to education investment (taking into account the aging of
emigre populations and new immigration legislation in the European Union and the United
States) 1
*  active and passive labor market programs (Cape Verde is representative of many of the
programs evaluated by Dar and Tzannatos, 1999, for example, its employment services and
public works scheme - FAIMO). This study is particularly important given the plans to
privatize/refocus public enterprises and implement civil service reform
*  the medium term economic impact (via tracer studies) of demand-driven, enterprise-level
training programs
Planning the Future Development of the ETS
Evaluation of costs and benefits, cost effectiveness and processes is key to sound program
choices and thus fundamental to the project's objective of modernizing the education and training
system. As a general rule, all proposals for the modification of existing programs (adding new
courses such as French and English in primary school) or the introduction of new programs (a
secondary technical stream or a training course addressing the hotel industry, for example) should
be screened by the respective economic teams within the planning units as to their likely costs and
outcomes before any field testing is initiated (see the criteria for field testing - Annex 3). This
advance screening function will be the mainstream work for the two planning units, GEDSE and
GEDS. Some early costing exercises will be important. These include: (i) comparing the relative
costs of general education, technical and vocational streams at the upper secondary level (the
rapid expansion of secondary requires that early choices be made, mainly on cost grounds but
informed by the experience of other countries); and (ii) the estimate of investment and operating
costs pertaining to options for the future development of tertiary education.
While program options may be assessed as individually cost-effective and technically feasible,
there is always the possibility that in the aggregate they may strain or overreach the country's
financial capacity. Thus, an important exercise is to develop a financial model of the existing
system reflecting base line costs into which change parameters (new program options; new levels
of participation; cost reduction measures) can be introduced, in order to keep track of the financial
costs of the evolving refonns and develop financial scenarios for the planned PDRH.
Remittances will be assessed by sampling the membership of Cape Verde expatriate associations in the-
main host countries. Contacts have been established with the Portuguese and U. S. associations.



Annex 5- Proposed Economic Analysis
Page 7 of 7
Economic Work Program and Development of Institutional Capacity
Task Area                   Responsible Unit            Critical Path
A. Develop initial financial   GEDSE and GEDS, with           February 1999 onwards
model of the ETS and           participation by the Ministry of
progressively revise it in terms of  Finance staff
selected program options
B. Public expenditure workshops  MEJCD, MEFIS and regional      July and September
delegations                            1999
Ministry of Finance
C. Baseline parameters         GEDSE (+ 2 national economist        Underway
and 1 education planner)
D. Direct and indirect costs of    GEDSE (+ senior economist)       June 1999
schooling
E. Subsidies                   Idem                                 June 1999
F. Cost analysis of secondary  Idem plus TA                       December 1999
stream options
G Options for higher education    Idem plus TA                 September-December
development                                                         1999
H. Retums to higher education                                       June 2001
I. Evaluation active/passive labor
market programs
and               MEFIS plus TA                       June 2001
J. Demand-driven training
programs
K. Screening of Proposals for  MECJD and MEFIS respectively  Throughout project
field-testing               plus TA                        implementation



Annex 6 - Financial Summary
Page 1 of 1
Annex 6: Financial Summary
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization Project
Years Ending 2002
(US$000s)
Implementation Period              Operational Period
1999    2000       2001    20002   2002   2003  2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs         385.3  2471.7     2418.10  1273.4   -2
Recurrent Costs'          30.0   220.7      329.4    234.2  66.0   66.0  66.0
Total: (7,362.0)      415.3  2692.4    2747.5   1507.6
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA               90        82          82        82
Co-financiers3         -          8           8         8
Government             10        10          10        10   100    100   100
Central              (10)     (10)        (10)     (10)
Local                NA        NA         NA       NA
User Fees/Beneficiaries4   100   100        100       100                  _
Total                100      100         100             100    1001  100
Main assumptions:
'Annual recurrent costs less than 1% of total education/training recurrent budget (CY 98). No additional
posts are created. Most operating costs relate to one-time field-testing and costs related to TA.
2CY20002 and beyond, net incremental recurrent costs attributable to maintenance and utility costs of new
classroom.
3Parallel co-financing by Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation.
'Contributions from the private sector: from employers to the Training Fund and co-financing by
beneficiaries of the apprenticeship scheme.



Annex 7 - Procurement Arrangements
Page 1 of 5
Annex 7: Financial Management, Procurement
and Disbursement Arrangements
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Development Project
Financial management
The financial management specialist of the Dakar Resident Mission appraised the staffing,
systems and procedures of the PCU in February 1999. The project accountant is experienced, has
sound professional and computer skills and is deemed competent to handle accounting under the
proposed project. The accounting system software is used by other IDA projects and functions
well. However, there are some weaknesses which have been corrected in a recent, more user
friendly version supported by the vendor. These weaknesses are not considered incompatible with
sound financial management. The PCU is making arrangements with the software vendor to
upgrade the system. This task will be completed by the end of May, 1999. The manual of
accounting procedures prepared by the PCU in 1996 needs updating. A senior consulting
economist/ accountant, familiar with both the ongoing and the proposed projects as well as the
current accounting system will oversee the updating of the software, the preparation of an
improved accounting procedures manual and the training of the PCU staff. This task will be
completed by the end of May, 1999. The consultant will assist in the gradual introduction of the
LACI systems and procedures over the next two years. The financial analyst of IDA's Dakar
Resident Mission will also make periodic visits to monitor progress. All audits for the ongoing
project have been satisfactory. A firm has been selected to conduct project audits. A 1998
mission by LOAAF found the handling of disbursement requests to be satisfactory.
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) since Cape Verde's procurement legislation
accommodates IDA procedures. Procurement of works, goods and consultant services financed
by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September
1997) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with Cape Verde's procurement laws
and regulations, acceptable to IDA. NCB procedures provide for: (i) an explicit statement of the
bid evaluation and award criteria, (ii) national advertising with public bid opening, with at least
four weeks for the preparation of bids from the date of the invitation to bid or from the date of
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, (iii) award of the contract to the bidder
whose bid is substantially responsive to the bidding documents and whose bid offers the lowest
evaluated cost, (iv) no preference margin for domestic contractors and manufacturers; (v) no
eligible firms to be precluded from participation, regardless of nationality. IDA's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB procurements. NCB documents agreed by
IDA and applied in the Basic Education and Training Project, Cr. 2675, will be used.
Civil Works: Total cost is estimated at US$ 1.157 Million of which US$1.041 million financed by
IDA. Civil works contracts are for the construction of 60 classrooms in Grade 1-6 cluster schools.
The construction designs and bills of quantity reflect acceptable standards of economy and



Annex 7 - Procurement Arrangements
Page 2 of 5
functionality and were utilized in the previous project. The construction program for SY 2000-2001
has been prepared by the GEDSE, based on the school map. Municipalities will continue to provide
the land for expansion at selected cluster schools. In consultation with the PCU, the Ministry of
Infrastructure would launch the bidding process, evaluate bids and supervise the works. Recent
tender experience with regard to similar works resulted in an average contract amount of about US$
120,000 equivalent representing a six classroom lot. Civil works contracts financed underthe Credit
will be awarded through NCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Due to their small size,
geographic spread and high transportation costs, these civil works contracts are unlikely to attract foreign
or large finns that use modem equipment. Given the experience under the PEBF, capacity and quality of
the local construction industry is satisfactory to meet construction requirements. However, foreign
bidders would not be precluded from submitting bids.
Goods: The total cost is estimated at US$ 0.398 million, of which US$ 0.384 million financed by
IDA. The FEE will finance textbooks and teacher guides for the School Year 2001/2002 and the
FCG will finance the pedagogic materials to equip two resources centers for continuous teacher
training. Procurement of goods includes furniture for 60 primary classrooms, textbooks, teacher
guides and didactic materials. Recent tenders for furniture at similar schools resulted in a net cost
per classroom of US$2,118 equivalent. Since foreign bidders are unlikely to be interested in school
firniture, due to the small, dispersed character of the component, and because local firms are
competitive with market prices, primary school furniture financed by the Credit estimated to cost less
than US$ 100,000 per contract (US$ 0.136 million) will be procured through NCB.Textbooks to be
financed by the credit will be procured by ICB since the domestic market for books is small and
publishing and printing capacity negligible. Some small contracts for teacher guides (which can
be printed locally with simple equipment) and other goods (pedagogical materials, office
equipment) estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$184,000 will be procured through local shopping.
Consultant Services and Training: Consultants and Training financed by IDA, totaling US$3.066
million, will be hired in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999. This technical assistance mainly concerns: (i) sector studies; (ii) adaptation and
field testing; (iii) planning, management and economic analysis; (iv) staff development/training
(v) accounting, auditing and project supervision. The FCG will finance technical assistance for
some activities related to (i) through (iv) above, on the basis of terms of reference for specific
activities agreed with Government and IDA. The curriculum vitae of candidates for team leader
positions and individual team members will be submitted to IDA for comment. In cases where
activities are not financed by the FCG or where additional specialists are required, the PCU, in
consultation with IDA and the Foundation (in case of complementary topics), will contract
specialists, to be financed by the Credit. These specialists will be selected in line with
Consultants 'Qualifications on the basis of criteria agreed with IDA including skills and
experience, proficiency in Portuguese and ability to work in a team setting. In certain cases, it
may prove more cost-effective to recruit staff through specialized firms, universities or other
institutions, on the basis of quality - and cost-based selection, with, exceptionally, single source
selection in cases where only one firm has the required qualifications and experience.
Internationally reputed universities or foundations are likely to be contracted to organize
workshops, study tours and to conduct specific studies.



Annex 7 - Procurement Arrangements
Page 3 of 5
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure category         ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F.     Total Cost
(1) Civil Works                         1.157                   0.122         1.279
(1.041)                              (1.041)
(2) Goods includingbooks     0.262      0.136       0,184      0.523*         1,105
and didactic materials  (0.262)    (0.122)      (0.165)                  (0.549)
(3) Training and                                    0.649                    0,649
apprenticeship programs                         (0.616)                  (0.616)
(4) Consultant services                             3.066      0.450 **   3,516 (3.066)
(3.066)
(5) Operating costs                                 0.813                    0,813
(0.755)                  (0.755)
Total Costs                 0.262       1.293       4.712       1.095        7.362
Total Financed by IDA       (0.262)    (1.163)     (4.602)        -          (6.027)
Note: NBF = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the /IDA credit. Total may not add up
due to rounding.
* Of this armount, the FEE will finance textbooks and teacher guides printing for the amount of
US$ 335,000 and the FCG will finance the pedagogic materials to equip two resources centers
for continuous teacher training for the amount of US$161,000.
** Of this amount, the FCG will finance technical assistance for US$450,000.
IDA Review: All contracts for civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold value of
US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Prior review will focus primarily
on invitation to bid, bid data sheet, contract data, technical specifications, bill of
quantities/schedule of requirements and other contract-specific items. For consultant services,
contracts for firms exceeding $100,000 and $50,000 for individuals will be subject to prior
review. Prior review will cover budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
technical evaluation of proposals, final proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Terms of
reference for all consultant contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA. The PCU will
submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement in progress and
completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.



Annex 7-Procurement Arrangements
Page 4 of 5
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditur   Contract Value          Procurement Methods         Contracts Subject to Prior
e         (Threshold)                                               review *
Category                     _
_______@____  ~       ICB       NCB        Other            I
1. Works   above US$             X                              Prior IDA review
100,000
below US$                        X                  Post review
100,000
Goods       above US$             X                             Prior review
including    100,000
Books and  Below US$                         X                  Post review
didactic    100,000
above US$
50,000
Materials   below US$                                    X      Post review
50,000
Selection Methods
Finns       above US$          Quality and Cost Based Selection    Prior Review + Review of
100,000           (QCBS)                            Technical Evaluation
Report before opening
i ________                     ___________________________      financial proposal
Individuals  Above US$ 50,000  Consultants' qualifications -    Prior review
below US$ 50,000  Section V                         Post review
Audit       N/A                Least Cost Selection             Prior Review
Disbursements:
Disbursements will be made for goods, works, services and operating costs that are eligible for
IDA financing. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be
disbursed over a period of four Bank fiscal years (from 2000 to 2003).
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs): Supporting documentation will be retained for review by
periodic Bank supervision and external auditors.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual basis.
Modifications may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurements
implemented. Amendments to the Credit Agreement would be required after the implementation period
of the first two program years.



Annex 7 - Procurement Arrangements
Page 5 of 5
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$         Financing Percentage
million
1. Civil Works                               1.000               100% of foreign
expenditure,
90% of local
2. Goods                                     0.522               100% of foreign
expenditure,
90% of local
3. Training and apprenticeship programs      0.575                    95%
(Ministiy of Employment and
Training)
4. Consultant services inc. audits            2.932                   100%
5. Incremental Operating costs               0.719                    95%
6. Unallocated                               0.279
Total IDA credit                             6.027



Annex 8- Project Processing
Page I of 2
Annex 8: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Cape Verde: Education and Training
Consolidation and Modernization Project
Project Schedule                                      Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                  9 months
Project identification workshop (Washington) *          N/A                07/13/1998
Education and Training Sector Policy workshop *       N/A                09/28/1998
Decision Meeting                                                         12/03/1998
Appraisal mission departure                          01/23/1999            01/30/1999
Manual of Implementation workshop *                   N/A                03/15/1999
Negotiations                                         02/22/1999            04/16/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        04/15/1999            08/10/1999
Prepared by: Vice Prime Minister's Office, Mmi. of Education and Min. of Employment and Training
Preparation assistance: BB and Cr. 2675-CV
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Carmen E. Perez-Castafio                      Task Team Leader, AFTH2
Michael Wilson                                Education Policy Specialist, AFTH2
Slahedinne Ben-Halima                         Operations Officer, AFTH2
Joseph Bredie                                 Vocational Training Specialist, AFTH3
Shakevar Diop                                 Textbooks, AFTH
Susan Opper                                   Early Child Development, AFTH2
Alassane Diawara                              Economist, AFMSN
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye                      Financial Analyst, AFMSN
Myrina McCullough                             Program Assistant, AFTH2
Amy Ba                                        Staff Assistant,AFTH2
Pascale Dubois                                Counsel, LEGAF
Marcos Sugar                                  Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Steve Gaginis                                 Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Peer Reviewers:
Madalena dos Santos                           Education Planner, LCSHD
Robert Prouty                                 Education Planner, AFTH2
Comments from Adriaan Verspoor, Lead Specialist, AFTH3; Himelda Martinez, Principal Education
Specialist, SASED; Jee-Peng Tang, Principal Economist, HDNED; Eduardo Velez, Principal Education
Specialist, AFTH1; Ricardo Silveira, Senior Ecomomist, LCSHD.
Cheik Kante and Robert Hawkins (BB IHD), for connectivity and World Link Program
Operations Support reviews: Florent Agueh (Sector Manager-AFTS2); Bernard Abeille (Procurement
specialist); Philipe Beuzelein (Financial Management Specialist); Alain Berthier; John Schwartz; Rogati
Anael Kayani.
* Workshops held in Washington for senior government staff.



Annex 8- Project Processing
Page 2 of 2
Policy dialogue and program implementation advise:
Project identification workshop - Topics and World Bank resource person: Country macroeconomic
framework, Gradimir Radisic; strategic options for basic and secondary education, Adriaan Verspoor;
efficient schools - supply of qualified teachers, Himelda Martinez; textbooks, Sakhevar Diop; school health
and nutrition, Claire Van Den Bosh, Irene Kyung-Eun Kim, Sergio Meresman; early childhood
development and pre-school, Susan Opper; the use of internet in secondary education - the Senegal
experience, Djamalddine Rouag; virtual university, Etienne Baranshamaje; vocational training, Michael
Wilson; institutional assessment- capacity building, Rogerio Pinto; technical assistance from Brazil to Cape
Verde: sharing recent experiences, Antonio G. Pereira.
Education and Training Sector Policy workshop - Topics and World Bank resource persons: Country
macro-economic framework, Gradimir Radisic; teacher training and west Africa region experiences Robert
Prouty, Post-primary education, Eduardo Velez; Secondary education in Latin America: Alberto
Rodriguez; Basic Education in Brazil, Robin Horn; Economics of Education, Nicholas Burnett; Africa
region education strategy Birger Fredriksen; community participation and education- Latin America'
experiences, Madalena dos Santos; Early Child Development Mary Eming Young; student achievement
assessment, Marlaine Lockheed; training and employment sector policies, Avril Van Adams; virtual
university, Etienne Baranshamaje. External resource persons: David Pierce and Audree Chase, American
Association of Community Colleges, Floyd Cumberbatch, Richard Mower, Montgomery College; George
Payne and Eric Jeffers, Gudelsky Institute for Technical Education; David James and Mary Helen Spear,
Prince George's Community College.
Manual of Implementation workshop: Topics and World Bank resource persons: School-based qualitative
analysis, Himelda Martinez and Madalena dos Santos; Textbooks sector studies, Sakhevar Diop; Early
Child Development, Susan Opper, Higer Education, Jamil Salmi and William Saint; Employment and
Training, David Fretwell; Donald Bundy and Seung- Hee Lee, School Health.



Annex 9 - Documents in Proje'-t File
Page 1 of 2
Annex 9: Documents in Project File
Cape Verde: Education and Training Consolidation
and Modernization Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A. 1 Revised Education and Training Policy 1999-2003
A.2 Project Implementation Manual
A.3 Draft Accounting and Project Management Manual (final version will be available
on project effectiveness)
A.3 Draft of Terms of Reference for the studies
A.4 Implementation schedules 1999-2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoire and Back to Office Report, Appraisal Mission, February 1-17, 1999.
C. Other
Carta Escolar de Santiago e Sao Vicente. Joao Alpiarca. Praia, Dezembro de 1997.
Cooperacao Austria- Cabo Verde. "Educacao e Forma,o- Programa Sectorial 1997"
Patrizia Bitter. Responsavel sectorial da Cooperacao Austriaca educacao e Formacao.
Abril 1997.
Ministerio da Coordenacao Econ6mica. "Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento 1997-
2000". Praia, 1997.
Ministry of Economic Coordination. "The 1997-2000 Plan's Main Options. Cape Verde
dynamic insertion in the World Economic System.- An option for self-sustained
economic and social development )> Praia, 1997.
Ministerio da Coordenacao Econ6mica. Direc,ao geral de Planeamento. Projecto NLTPS-
Estudo Nacional de Perspectivas a Longo Prazo "Cabo Verde 2020 --II Fase: Construcao
da Base de Estudos. Desenvolvimento dos Recursos Humanos". Elaborado pelo
Gabinete de Consultadoria INOVA. Adriana Carvalho, Helene Monteiro e Nelida
Rodrigues Praia, Dezembro 1995.
Ministere de la Coordination Economique. Direction Generale du Plan.  Perspectives
Demographiques du Cap Vert a l'horizon 2020 >>. Par Mady Biaye -- Unite de Population
et des Ressources Humaines. Avril 1996.
Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto. Comissao da descentraliza,ao da Educa,co.
"Estudo institucional para a descentralizacao da educacao -Relat6rio". Alfredo Guy,
Carlos Malpica, Cirilo Alvarez, Jean Barka, Lurdes Lopes, Rodolfo Mederos, Maritza
Rosabal, Sergio Rosales, Teresa Femandes.
Ministerio da Educa,co, Ciencia, Juventude e Desporto. Gabinete de Estudos e do
Desenvolvimento do Sistema Educativo.



Annex 9 - Documents in Project File
Page 2 of 2
- Anuarios Estatisticos Anos lectivos 1996/97, 1997/1998
- Ensino Secundario. Cenario de Funcionamento das Escolas par o Ano Lectivo 1997/98
Ministere de la Justice et du Travail. Secretariat d'etat a l'emploi. <(Note d 'information
sur 1 'enseignement technique et professionnel au Cap-vero. Amokrane Galou,
Consultant, Novembre 1993.
Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a Pobreza. "Programa de reducao da Pobreza:
Contribui,co nos dominios da saude, nutric,o, popula,ao e educac,o", 1997.
Programa Nacional de Luta contra a Pobreza. "Mesa Redonda de Parceiros de
Desenvolvimento". Novembro de 1997.
Projecto de Educa,ao de Base e ForTna,co. Cr 2675-CV Unidade Coordenadora do
Projecto:
- Workshop--Complementaridade entre os Ensino Tecnico e a Formacao Profissional".
Mindelo, 24 Julho de 1996.
- Conclus6es do Workshop Avalia9ao a Medio Percurso do PEBF e Identifica,ao de
Perspectivas". Praia, 28-29 de Janeiro de 1998 por Emesto Toro Balart.
- Relat6rio de Avalia=co a Meio Percurso. M6dulos A e B. Praia, Novembro de 1997.
Jose S. Fernandes.
UNICEF reports.
World Bank. Poverty in Cape Verde: "A summary assessment and a strategy for its
alleviation". June 30, 1994 Report 13126-CV
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
Operations Portfolio
As of 26-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a!
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    F'rm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
ActiVe Projects
CV-PE-55467      1999   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE          PRIVATIZATION TA                           0.00        9.00        0.00               S.59          .21        0.00
CV-PE-50956      1998   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                ECO. REFORMS SUPPORT                       0.00       30.00        0.00              14.79        11.53        0.00
CV-PE-438        1996   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE                       0.00       11.40        0.00               4.95         2.26        0.00
CV-PE-426        1995   MIN EDuc & SPORTS/LABOR,          BASIC EDUCATION AND                        0.00       21.50        0.00               2.38         -.75        0.00
CV-PE-437        1994   GOVT OF CAPE VERDE                 PUB SEC REFORM S CAP                      0.00        8.10        0.00               1.51         1.11        1.11
CV-PE-435        1993   GOV'T, ENAPOR, ASA                TRANSPORT INFRASTRUC                       0.00       12.50        0.00               2.34         2.37        0.00
Total                                                                                                0.00       82.50        0.00              33.56        16.79        l.1l
Activ  Pjcs           Closed Projects            Toa
Ac    T                                           otal
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   47.31                23.40                70.71
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                  .79                 .79
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   82.50                20.41              102.91
Amount sold                                         0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                                  0.00                0.00                 0. 00
Total Undisbursed                 :               33.56                 0.00                33.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the mnonth and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.
O ~



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 I-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                  AEF Growela             .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Htl Tropico         .60    0.00    0.00    0.00    .60    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    .90    0.00    0.00    0.00     .90    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauitv  quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commiinent:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Cape Verde at a glance                                                                 4/29/99
Sub-   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Cape  Saharan   middle-
Verde    Africa   Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       0.40       614     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,047       500     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      0.42       309     2,818
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (0%)                                        2.3       2.7        1.2
Labor force (%)                                        1.3       2.6        1.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capia                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   30
Urban population (% of total population)                52        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        65        52        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               46         90        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              19        27         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe viater (56 of populatbn)                 52        44        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   28         43        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   114        75       II1             Cape VeIe
Male                                                119         82       116              Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                               110        67       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.06     0.15      0.43      0.43
Gross domestic investmentGDP                 36.3     48.3      33.5      30.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP            10.7     24.8      23.7      30.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -29.6     -7.7      -6.9       -4.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  -34.1      9.3      25.7      23.5
Current account balance/GDP                     ..   -27.8      -7.9       -6.8      /m\\
Interest payments/GDP                         0.2      1.4       0.5       0.5      DomesticInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               19.2     79.2      53.8      61.8      Savings
Total debt service/exports                     ..      7.4       5.1        7.6
Present value of debUGDP                      0.0      0.0      31.4      36.2
Present value of debUexports                   ..      0.0      68.4      73.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 10.6      3.5      4.3       3.0        4.3        -Cape Verde
GNP per capita                       9.4      1.2      1.5       0.2        1.6               Lower-mIddle-Income group
Exports of goods and services       17.3      7.4     25.0       6.6      13.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investrnent (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  11.4     11.7       7.5        8.6     40
Industry                                     20.5     18.0      17.6      21.4      20
Manufacturing                                 ..       ,.       0.6       0.5      o
Services                                     68.1     70.3      74.9      70.0    -20      92   93   94          96         7
Private consumption                         118.9     82.1      77.4      84.5    -4o
General government consumption               10.7     25.7      29.5      20.1                     GDI          GDP
Imports of goods and services                76.6     80.9      64.2      65.9
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   9.3     -6.7       5.7       6.1    30
Industry                                      7.6      6.4       2.5       6.7    20
Manufacturing                                       18.7        3.9       3.5    10
Services                                     1t7       5.0       4.8       1.5      o 
Prvate consumption                            6.9      3.4      -2.9       3.9    -t/           93   94   95
General government consumption               12.6     13.3      -2.7       -7.3   -20
Gross domestic investment                    10.2      3.1       1.5      -2.1   -30
Imports of goods and services                 8.0      8.1      -3.1      -2.0             -     Expors     0-Imports
Gross national product                       10.8      3.4       4.0       2.9                                              1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Intlation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     1
(% change)                                                                          12
Consumer prices                                 ..    10.9        6.2      10.6       a
Implicit GDP deflator                          0.0     16.4       4.4       9.5      6
Government finance                                                                   2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    21.9       35.9      36.8             92   93    94   95   9S   97
Current budget balance                                  0.4.       8.9     11.1              -GDP def1ator  -"O-CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                                -39.1     -19.9    -14.6                     GDP deflator    _P
TRADE
(US$ rnYhions)                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..        13        40     291
Commodity 1                                    ..        ..        1        1
Commodity 2                                    ..      ..          1        1
Manufactures                                            .          0        0
Total imports (ci)                                      91        203       209     146              FEW
Food                                                             45        47Ii
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..        10        10
Capital goods                                  ..      ..       119        79       o     _  _ _   _ _ _    _ _ _   _ _ _
91   92   93   94   95   99   97
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..       100       100
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..       106       107                o Exports     u Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          94        94       .
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    .      36        101       132       0
Imports of goods and services                    .      102       273       280     -2        921  [  93   94 |9
Resource balance                                        -65      -172      -149   |4
Net income                                               -4        -7        -7   |6
Net current transfers                                    73       146       108       -t
-104
Current account balance                          ..    -41        -33       -29     1t
Financing items (net)                           ..       44        36        24   |-i4
Changes in net reserves                          .        4        -3         5   |.161
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         33        56        54        50
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)              30.2     80 1      82.6      93.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            12      115       229       263
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                           0        5         42        49                  F:   G:6      B.4
Total debt service                               0        5        10        16
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              11       76         62        62
Official creditors                           11         7        36        16
Pnvate creditors                              0         1         0         0
Foreign direct investment                     0         0        28        12
Portfolio equity                              0         0                                           0 160
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   0         0        11        30     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        2          9         8     B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0        0          0         0     C IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        2          9         8              ._
Interest payments                             0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                 0        1          9         8
Development Economics                                                                                                 4/29/99



MAP SECTION
i



253 3SC                        2, 00                               0'00                              20 CS                             2i                                5 
Cezeo  dpBc d,  7ut  ctnRS                                                                                                                 TIovbhopnduies cMoror. d nom,00tons and an otbr,n,,
p  -1Ap dO :or i.pi;l' - 0e poO/ s Th. arId S,A Group
-r .C -tohr eI sc ,  . c    w0thY'---
SANTO ANTAO
S,40 VICEfNTE  C'    SANTA LUZIA                       F            N       o D                                                                                   lOro
0O~~~~00O. ~~~~~~~42-od Pj 
-                           ,          Ri m+rc dp OCO  .    -      4 OiO                                                                     SAi L
B'tanco           Y2c-dej2-e'iiJ Sr eL - .O  _    roDS
C  A  P  E    V  E  R  D  E                              SAONICOLAU                                                                                                         16'30'
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
CONSOLIDATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
COUNCIL BOUNDARiEs                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
t  NATIONAL CAPITAL
vilo do 0.I P.
PROEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE -              MAIN PORTS
PRAIA AND MlNDELO    -M
OTHERS PORTS 5o00oo
TBCNiCAL SCHOOLS                       MAJOR AIRPORTS: HARD SURfACE
&ffi TECS NICAL S .HOOLS     i  RUNWAY LENGTH OF 900. MAETERg                                                                                      BOA VISTA ,   t      >~piOivru
-ld'00                     MItNISTRY OF EDUCATION           -~-~ FlRST CLASS ROADS                                                                                                                         C.rao 'AlSo    1000
REGIONAL OFFICES                ------SECOND CLASS ROADS
ELEVATION IN METERS:
E EMPLOYMENT CENTERS
500-1000
0-500
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C O   0    20    30    40    5C   a0 KILOA 10E0
-1$s73         222'0                             00C i$U                                                                                                 L     A       N       D)    S                                 S3
FOIRMER  .,                '.                                                                            D
SPANISHN
tSAHARA,                   A :  I
G Ul N _     MAURI5ANIA                                                                                                                                       Mo*rirRo    Soo7o AOlo,o
CAPE                                                                                                                 SANTAGOMAMAI
VERDE    SENEGAi'L                       *~SRIod  ~~                                                                                               o~I         Fs oI~  4Fooo   s
THE GAMBIA                                                                                                                      d SY-00w 
B URKINA',
GUINEAISSAV,                 F~       ASO                                                                           o:oBoo
*"  0  ~  IS'0CRomobo samo                                                                     o             o  rooo
SIERRAL LENE >        COTF Pes' 9                              Po Col-00
, .     DIVOIRE0
LIBERIA'.Xi               2                s~,,          i                oo 5oo                                              P&A7
BRAVk, -                s-  Obro                      24;00                                                                23W,
..FEMJAR 109



