Report No. PIC1827
Project Name                   Burkina Faso-Mining Sector Capacity...
Building and Environmental Management
Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Mining, Environment, Public Sector Management
Project ID                     BFPA283
Borrower                       Government of Burkina Faso
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Energy and Mines
Ministere de lEnergie et des Mines
Secretariat General
Projet d ' assistance technique au secteur
minier
01 BP 12 Ouagadougou 01
Tel: 226 31 78 64
Fax: 226 31 78 64
Date PID Prepared              January 5, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       January 15, 1996
Tentative Board Date           May 1996
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Since 1991, the Government of
Burkina Faso has been implementing a wide range of policy, economic and
sectoral reforms under its structural adjustment program. Selective
progress has been made during the period 1991-94 in implementing public
enterprise reform, banking and business law reform and privatizing the
regional railway in support of private sector growth. The main
objective of the Policy Framework Paper for 1995-97 is to consolidate
and deepen the ongoing adjustment process, focusing on macroeconomic
performance, public sector management, private sector development and
improvements in the social sectors. Aost 22 months after the
devaluation of the CFAF, the macroeconomic situation has stabilized and
inflation has returned to low levels. The fiscal situation is much
under control and the Government is focusing on building capacity,
sectoral growth, poverty alleviation and environmental sustainability.
2.   At present, modern mining is little developed in Burkina.    Yet,
exports of gold represent, after cotton, the country±s largest foreign
exchange earner. Official gold exports from one underground industrial
mine and artisanal exploitations were about 1.4 tonnes in 1994, valued
at US$16.8 million. However, Burkina Faso is well endowed with
geological formations known as Birrimean greenstone belts which, in
other West African countries (e.g., Mali and Ghana), host major gold
deposits. Due to this excellent geological potential and availability
of risk capital in the international equity markets, many mining
investors (over 20 international companies which are among the largest
mining houses in the world) have shown interest in Burkina Faso during
the past 24 months. The reduction in dollar-based exploration cost due
to the devaluation provides an added attraction. In addition to the
current exploration activity, artisanal mining is prevalent in the



country and offers a meager livelihood to an estimated 50-100,000
persons. It is a very inefficient activity and gives rise to several
social, health and environmental issues.
3.   The Government is aware that it will encounter difficulty in
retaining the interest of foreign investors as well as remedying the
problems associated with artisanal mining due to several constraints.
These include: (i) inappropriate sector policies and strategy; (ii)
antiquated mining legislation; (iii) lack of a competitive fiscal regime
for the sector; (iv) government monopoly control over gold exports; (v)
a state owned gold mine (SOREMIB) in serious financial and technical
difficulty; (vi) ineffective sector institutions and inefficient
administrative procedures; (vii) insufficient supporting infrastructure
(transportation and power); (vii) non-existent or poorly organized
geological data; and (viii) lack of skilled manpower. The Government
has initiated a number of steps to address these issues which
demonstrates its commitment to reforming the sector. A letter of sector
policy and strategy has been prepared which is based on international
best practices and which is acceptable to IDA. Following an in-depth
study of gold commercialisation, the government has agreed to abolish
the state monopoly on exports of gold and to restructure the government-
owned gold buying office, the Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux
(CBMP). A new Ministry of Energy and Mines was created in June 1995 and
the Government is reviewing the mandates of agencies reporting to the
Ministry including that of the Bureau of Mines and Geology of Burkina
(BUMIGEB). The Government is also in the process of privatizing the
state-owned gold mine (SOREMIB). Finally, steps are being taken to
formulate a new mining law that is consistent with international best
practices. These reforms have been significant steps in the right
direction. A PPF is assisting the Government identify and undertake
some of these reforms. The PPF has also assisted in building ownership
and commitment for implementing the proposed project.
4.   Environmental Overview.   Burkina Faso was one of the first
countries in Africa to formulate its National Environmental Action Plan.
The Plan was approved by the Government in 1991. However, inertia on
the part of key governmental authorities and the narrow sectoral
approach adopted by the authorities to implementing the plan, prevented
its operationalization. A program of assistance from IDA to assist the
Government to implement the NEAP was cancelled largely due to the same
reasons. However, this situation was changed during the early part of
this year, with the appointment of a dynamic new minister to head the
portfolios of Environment and Water. The Minister has approached the
Bank and other donors to assist his ministry in establishing badly
needed capacity to operationalize the NEAP and to execute priority
activities and programs in environmental management.
5.   Establishing capacity in the country for environmental management
is a priority at a time when agriculture, industry, mining, as well as
infrastructure sectors are poised for growth and expansion. There is a
need for putting in place a sound policy, legislative, regulatory and
incentive framework to protect and conserve the natural resource base in
the country. Formulation and enforcement of sound policy and
legislation to protect the environment are impossible tasks in the
absence of a proper system of data collection and processing or
-2 -



effective institutions to monitor compliance. A third priority is an
informed and environmentally sensitized populace. The development of a
comprehensive environmental awareness program consisting of a formal
environmental education component and a non-formal environmental
sensitization component are critical. Skills need to be developed both
in the public as well as in the private sector, to carry out the
different functions related to environmental monitoring and compliance
with established regulations and guidelines. The proposed project
focusses on addressing all of the above priorities.
6.   Project Objectives:   The main objectives of the proposed project
are to: (a) establish an enabling environment to promote private
investment in mining and thereby contribute to real and sustainable
economic growth; (b) strengthen public and private sector capacity to
provide geology information to potential investors; and (c) establish
capacity in the country for environmental management. Additionally, the
project aims to: (i) stimulate private sector response to the growing
need for a variety of mining and environment related technical goods and
services; and (ii) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to improve
economic, technical, social and environmental conditions applicable to
artisanal miners.
7.   Project Description.   Consistent with these objectives, the project
will provide long and short term technical assistance, training, and
equipment in four main areas: (a) Regulatory and Fiscal Framework for
Mining, to: (i) establish the regulatory and fiscal regime; (ii)
strengthen legal and negotiating capabilities through twinning
arrangements between local and foreign educational institutions; (b)
Institutional Strengthening, Geology and Land Management, to: (i) define
the roles and strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Energy and
Mines and mining sector agencies, including the DGMG and BUMIGEB; (ii)
establish and administer a computerized mining title management and
cadastre; (iii) up-grade the geology database; and (iv) support on a
pilot basis, one or two +mining centers+ located in selected districts;
(c) Environmental Management, to : (i) asssist in developing
environmental laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards; (ii)
strengthen institutions responsible for monitoring compliance; (iii) put
into place a national environmental information and database system; and
(iv) design and implement environmental awareness program; and (d)
Artisanal Mining Component, to: (i) study the socio-economic and
technical conditions of artisanal mining to determine a strategy and
appropriate delivery mechanisms to provide extension services to
artisanal miners; (ii) study and assess baseline geology and
environmental information in current and potential artisanal mining
sites; (iii) establish capacity in local financial institutions to
assess proposals of small-scale miners; (iv) strengthen capacity for
mine title issuance as well as to ensure safety, health and
environmental conditions in artisanal mining sites; (v) fund the pilot
testing and dissemination of appropriate small-scale mining equipment;
and (vi) implement in collaboration with MEE an environmental awareness
program targeting artisanal miners.
8.   Country Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement.    Increasing
existing income earning opportunities particularly in rural areas,
creating new opportunities to produce and trade in order to alleviate
- 3 -



poverty, assist in implementing policy initiatives to foster the growth
of the emerging private sector, and establish needed capacity in public
sector institutions to ensure sustained growth are all essential
elements of the Country Assistance Strategy for Burkina. The proposed
project involves all of the above goals and, in particular, focusses on
the importance of encouraging a dynamic private sector and economic
liberalization approach which has been at the center of Bank/Fund
discussions with the Burkinabe Government for the past six years. It
would complement the on-going Public Institution Development and Private
Sector Support Projects as well as serve as a spearhead for the new CAS.
9.   Project Implementation.   The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEE),
specifically the DGMG would be responsible for project implementation.
Due to inadequacy of staff, the DGMG will engage the services of one or
more local consultants to assist in the day-to-day management of the
project, ensure compliance with bank procurement and audit procedures,
and maintain close liaison with other government ministries and relevant
Bank staff. The consultants will also assist in coordinating
implementation activities at the Ministry of Environment and Water.
10. Environmental Issues. The project is a technical assistance
operation that will not involve direct investment in mining activities.
It is, therefore, categorized +C+. The project is expected to have a
positive impact on the environment by building capacity in the country
for environmental management and for operationalizing the National
Environmental Action Plan.
11. Issues and Actions. The principal issues to be addressed during
project preparation have been: (a) the definition of satisfactory roles
for government agencies responsible for the sector, in particular, the
roles of the state gold marketing agency, CBMP and BUMIGEB as a
geological survey agency and provider of geo-services; (b) satisfactory
resolution of the current government monopoly over the purchasing and
export of gold; (c) the formulation of a mining law in accordance with
international best practices; (d) delineation of working relationships
for environmental management between MEE and MEM; and (e) satisfactory
commitment from the Government to fund recurrent expenditures of
participating agencies. It is expected that activities under the PPF
will yield findings and arrangements satisfactory to IDA, in respect of
(a) to (c) and commitment will be sought during appraisal of
arrangements to resolve (d) and (e).
12. Benefits. The project would improve the enabling environment for
foreign and local private mining enterprises resulting in increased
investments, exports and fiscal receipts. Under a reasonable medium
growth scenario over the next ten years, Burkina has the potential to
produce 15 tonnes of gold per year from two gold mines, contributing
US$167 million and US$28 million respectively, in yearly export and tax
receipts. Additional benefits would be: (a) human resource and
technical skills development in both the public as well as private
sector in mining and in environmental management; (b) improved social,
health and environmental conditions at both industrial and artisanal
mine sites; (c) improved regulatory framework and institutional capacity
for environmental management; (d) alleviation of poverty in rural areas;
and (e) creation of spin-off enterprises to service the mining industry.
- 4 -



13. Project Cost and Financing: The project will cost approximately
US$23.3 million.
14. Risks. Principal risks are: (i) the in-grained attitudes
perpetuating state intervention in all activities; (ii) absence of
institutional capacity to implement the project in an effective manner;
and (iii) possible overlap of donor interventions, particularly the
program for geological mapping being funded by the European Commission
Sysmin, the program of UNDP for mining sector development and the
initiatives proposed by the Dutch for technical assistance for
Environmental Impact Assessments. Care has been taken during project
preparation, through extensive policy dialogue among government
officials, to build commitment for private sector orientation and for
sectoral reforms within the wider political and economic liberalization
process. This is evidenced by the declaration of sector policy and
strategy and the removal of state monopoly on gold exports. With regard
to donor initiatives, care is being taken to maintain close contacts
with all organizations to ensure that activities are complementary.
15. Project Sustainability. The extensive participatory approaches
adopted in the preparation of the project and the experience with
implementing the PPF have helped in building ownership for implementing
the proposed project. Sustainability will be enhanced through the
project+s strong emphasis on institution building, training, human
capital development and environmental awareness in the public as well as
private sectors. Finally, a condition of effectiveness will be a
commitment by the government to fund the recurrent budgets of the
beneficiary institutions at a level commensurate with their
responsibilities.
16. Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement. Experience with
similar mining technical assistance projects in other countries
indicates that exposure of government officials to international best
practices in the industry increases their ability to attract and retain
appropriate private investment. Experience in Burkina Faso, through the
Public Institution Development and Private Sector Support project
suggest that emphasis on beneficiary participation in project
preparation, intensive supervision, organization and coordination at the
field level are critical for timely and effective implementation.
Ownership and political commitment to project objectives are key to
ensuring strong local leadership, availability of counterpart funds, and
clear delineation of ministerial authority and responsibilities.
17. Program Objective Categories. The project supports IDA+s private
sector development, capacity building, poverty alleviation, and
environmental management program objectives.
18. Poverty Category. The project benefits include alleviation of
poverty through enhanced opportunities for employment, induced
development effects generated by the growth of the sector, and
improvement in social and economic conditions in the artisanal mining
community.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
- 5 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



