Document of
The International Development Association
Acting as Administrator of thie Interim Trust Fund
Report No. 16165 BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 29, 1997
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1996)
Currency Unit    =     CFA franc
US$1             =     500 CFA franc
I CFA franc      =     US$0.002
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric, unless otherwise noted
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUMIGEB        -       Bureau of Mines and Geology of Burkina Faso
CBMP           -       Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux
CE/MEM         -       Environmental Unit in Ministry of Energy and Mines
CNM            -       National Commission of Mines
CONAGESE    -          National Council for Environmental Management
CS             -       Steering Committee
DCMP           -       Central Directorate of Public Procurement
DGCOOP         -       Directorate General of International Cooperation
DG             -       Directorate of Geology
DGEF           -       Directorate General of Water and Forests
DGH            -       Directorate General of Hydrology
DGI            -       Directorate General of Taxation
DGMG           -       Directorate General of Mines and Geology
DGPE           -       Directorate General of Environmental Preservation
EC             -       European Commission
EIS            -       Environmental Information System
ENAREF         -       National School for Financial Administration
FDM            -       Mining Development Fund
MEF            -       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEW            -       Ministry of Environment and Water
MEM            -       Ministry of Energy and Mines
NEAP           -       National Environmental Action Plan
SNIST          -       National System of Earth Science Information
SOREMIB        -       Societe de Recherche et d'Exploitation Miniere du Burkina Faso
SYSMIN         -       Mining Fund of the European Union
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:      Serge Michailof
Technical Manager:     Peter Van der Veen
Task Team Leader:      Craig Andrews



BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................................ i
1. INTRODUCTION                             .1
2. THE MINING SECTOR                           .4
Geological Potential and New Foreign Investment    .4
Performance of the Sector                .5
3. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGISLATIVE ASPECTS                   .8
Mining Policy and Strategy               .8
Legislative Framework Pertaining to Mining       .9
Taxation and Mine Investment Code .10
Mining Sector Institutions .11
Environmental Management .12
4. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE IN BURKINA FASO .14
IDA Lending to Burkina Faso .14
Lessons Learned from Other IDA Supported Projects .14
Bank Involvement in Mining in Burkina Faso and Other Countries.15
5. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .17
Project Objectives and Overview .17
Detailed Description of Project Components .18
Project Cost, Administration and Implementation .23
Implementation .24
6. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT .28
Benefits .28
Risks .31
Sustainability .32
7. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONALITIES .32
Performance Indicators .34



LIST OF TABLES
2.A    Evolution of Burkina Faso Gold Production ........................................5
2.B    Comparative Indicators of Gold Mining ........................................8
5.A    Cost Estimates .......................................                        23
5.B    Financing Plan .......................................                        24
5.C    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ....................................... 26
5.D    Allocation and Disbursement Categories .......................................  27
6.A    Projected Contribution of Mining .......................................      31
ANNEXES
A.    Mining and Environment Institutional Structures
B.    Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
C.    Monitorable Performance Indicators
D.    Procurement Arrangements
E.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
F.    Table of Contents of Implementation Manual
G.    Supervision Plan
H.    Government Letter of Sector Development Policy
I.     Map of Mining Titles in Force
J.     Projections of Contribution to Economy from Mining
K.    Market Evolution for Gold, Zinc, and Manganese
L.    Artisanal Mining
M.    Review of Legislative Constraints in the Mining Sector
N.    Burkina Faso Mining Sector
MAP IBRD NO. 28673
Thi report is based on thefindngs f a pre-appraisal mission to Burkina Faso in Dec. 1993, and an appraisal
missIon In Ianh/Fb. 1996. The appraisal mission comprised of Messrs. Craig Andrews (k Manager, Senior
Mining        )IENIM      Indu Hewawasam (Operations Officer) AFTI and Gotthard Walser (Geologist)
IENI. Mr. Leo Maraboll aiNM  acted as Lead Adviserfor the project and Mesirs. John Barton-Bridges,
(MfD, andaRogerMercier,(AFTEI),actedaspeerreviewersfortheproec  Secretarialand
admb,inritive s   wpport was provided by Lillana Cruz de Kostner, Sr. Staff Assistant, (IENIM). Mr Serge
MIchaofIs the Count Director.



iii
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Burkina Faso
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Energy and Mines, Ministry of the Envirornent and Water
Resources
Amount:             SDR 14.8 million (US$21.4 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:   Not applicable
Project Objectives:   The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) establish an
enabling environment to both promote private investment in mining and
to ensure real and sustainable contribution to economic growth; (b)
strengthen public and private sector capacity to effectively administer
regulations and monitor sector developments; and (c) establish capacity
in the country for environmental management. Additionally, the project
aims to: (i) stimulate private sector response to the growing need for a
variety of mining and environment-related technical goods and services;
and (ii) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to facilitate the
development of small-scale mines, and to improve the social, welfare,
health and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.
Project Description:  The project will comprise four main components: (a) Regulatory and
Fiscal Framework and Training to help: (i) prepare mining and
environmental regulations; (ii) strengthen legal skills and negotiating
capabilities; (iii) improve administration of the fiscal regime applicable
to mining; (iv) build sustainable capacity in mining law and
environmental management as well as applied mining taxation. (b)
Institutional Strengthening and Resources Management will help: (i)
operationalize the roles and improve internal management procedures of
key sector institutions: MEM, BUMIGEB, CBMP; (ii) restructure the
geo-services currently offered by BUMIGEB; (iii) improve cadastre and
mining management services at MEM; (iv) establish and sustain an
environmental unit within MEM; (v) upgrade and improve earth science



iv
information database. (c) Environmental Management will help: (i)
build capacity in the relevant institutions to review and formulate
environmental policies, strategies and guidelines, and establish capacity
to monitor compliance therewith; (ii) assist in the preparation of mining
sector specific environmental regulations and monitoring procedures;
(iii) establish a national environmental information system and database;
(iv) design and implement an environmental education, information, and
communication program; and (v) provide training in priority areas.
(d) Small-Scale Mining will support activities to: (i) study the socio-
economic, geology and technical specifics of small-scale mining;
(ii) support the Directorate of Small-Scale Mining Promotion within the
General Directorate of Geology and Mines to design and deliver
technical advice, geology information, and extension services to small-
scale miners; (iii) assess mechanisms to evaluate financing proposals of
small scale mining operators; (iv) establish a pilot mining training
center; (v) promote the identification, development and dissemination of
small-scale mining equipment through private sector delivery
mechanisms; and (vi) design and implement an environmental
sensitization and awareness campaign targeted at artisanal miners.
Benefits:            The project will establish the regulations and strengthen government
institutions to help attract and sustain a level of mining investment that
could lead to yearly gold production of 10-15 tonnes of gold from 1 ton
today, worth $1 10-170 million, over the next ten years. Expert technical
assistance will help the Government to avoid mistakes in dealing with
private companies which could result in costly litigation or forgone
revenues at a later date. The project will help strengthen tax assessment
and collection procedures for statutory royalties, license fees, income,
dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes. These measures, together
with the suppression of the monopoly on gold exports which currently
leads to massive smuggling, could yield $25-30 million in fiscal receipts
yearly, up from approximately $100,000 today. The project will help
establish to put into place environmental regulations, procedures, and
monitoring capacity to minimize damage to the environment and the
health of rural Burkinabe from large, small and artisanal mining
operations. The project provides training and extension services to
support the development of small-scale mining as well as to help
improve social, health, safety and environmental conditions in the
artisanal mining community.
Risks:               Principal risks are: (a) backsliding by the Government on certain
commitments to reform and, (b) limited absorptive capacity to
implement the project in an effective manner. Care has been taken
during project preparation, through extensive policy dialogue with and
between government officials and the private sector, to build



v
commitment for sectoral reforms within the wider political and
economic liberalization process. On the issue of backsliding, the
Government's commitment to reform is evidenced through monitorable
indicators which the Government itself has proposed. These indicators
have been agreed to by IDA and will be part of the legal covenants
pertaining to the Credit. With regard to absorptive capacity, one of the
goals of the project is the development of human skills in both the public
and private sectors. The technical assistance will be phased and
prioritized so as not to overburden the relevant government departments,
and the international consultants engaged will work alongside local
counterparts.
Estimated Project Cost: a
Project Component             Local  (US$million)  Total
Foreign
Legal Reform and Capacity Building       0.9         1.6       2.5
Mining Taxation and Fiscal Training      0.7         1.5       2.2
Institutional Strengthening              2.7        4.3        7.0
Environmental Management                 1.4         1.6       3.0
Small Scale and Artisanal Mining         2.0        2.2        4.2
Project Coordination                     0.6         0.2       0.8
Unallocated                              0.8         1.2       2.0
PPF                                      0.3         0.5       0.8
Total                                    9.4        13.1       22.5
a/   All costs estimated inclusive of duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local  (US$million)  Total
Foreign
IDA                                      8.3        13.1      21.4
Government                               1.1        0.0        1.1
Total                                  9.4        13.1      22.5



vi
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million equivalent)
1998    1999   2000   2001   2002
Annual                     3.7      7.5    4.7      2.7    2.0
Cumulative                 4.5      12.0   16.7    19.4   21.4
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Poverty Category:       Program of Targeted Interventions.
Project ID No.:         283



BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Burkina Faso has a record of satisfactory adjustment under several IMF- and World Bank-
supported programs. Since 1991, the Government has been implementing a wide range of policy,
economic and sectoral reforms. After a period of modest economic expansion and following the
1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, real GDP growth picked up, reaching 5.5 percent in 1995 and an
estimated 6.6 percent in 1996. Although inflation was slightly higher than expected at 6.1 percent in
1996, this was largely due to higher cereal prices that stemmed from the poor harvest in 1995. The
most visible area of improvement has been the fiscal position. The primary fiscal balance, moved
from a deficit of I percent of GDP in 1994 to surpluses of 1.1 percent of GDP in 1995 and an
estimated 1.6 percent in 1996. The external account deficit has declined over the period 1990-96,
but it widened since then to an estimated 15.2 percent of GDP in 1996, reflecting an increase in
imports, mostly related to the rise in public and private investment.
1.2   Under a second three-year enhanced structural adjustment approved by the IMF in June
1996, the Government has started the implementation of an ambitious reform program. Good
progress has been made in implementing public enterprise reform, reducing trade barriers, stabilizing
domestic prices, reforming banking and business law, and privatizing the regional railway in support
of private sector growth. Efforts have also been made to reallocate budgetary expenditures to
critical social sectors--health and education. As results of its adjustment record, the country has
benefited from a Paris Club stock-of-debt reduction operation in 1996, involving a 67 percent
reduction in net present value of its eligible debt (CFAF 35.7 billion). Burkina Faso is considered
for assistance under the neew initiative for heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC). A preliminary
policy paper was discussed at Board meetings at the Bank and the Fund. The debt reconciliation
process will take place over the next months. The final proposal is likely to be presented to the
Boards for decision in early summer 1997.
1.3   Structural reforms have also helped to stimulate private sector activity. Yet, Burkina's
medium-term growth prospects depend on the sustainability of the policy reforms. The greatest risk
to reform stems from some Burkinabe officials' deep rooted belief that the State should be the
predominant actor in the economy. Particular emphasis will have to be given to clearly distinguish
the roles of the State and the private sector. This has already started to happen in the mining sector
where the Government has moved forward on a number of very significant reforms.
1.4   Mining, if properly managed, can help alleviate poverty, especially in the rainfall scarce
northern rural areas of Burkina Faso. Experience in other countries indicates that mining can
produce beneficial development effects: increasing a country's yearly value added, tax receipts
and foreign exchange earnings; creating local employment and economic spin-offs; contributing
physical and social infrastructure; and transfering management and technical know-how. Since
the mid-1980's, many governments have become aware that the capital and technology necessary



2
to develop their mining industries can only come from the private sector. Competitive regulatory
and fiscal conditions, an adequate earth science database, and sound environmental management
practices are critical not only for attracting and retaining investment, but also to ensure that
mining makes a positive contribution to the economy.
1.5   At present, modem mining is little developed in Burkina Faso and oriented principally
towards gold. Yet, exports of gold represent, after cotton, the country's largest foreign exchange
earner. Official gold exports from artisanal exploitations were about 1 ton in 1996, valued at $13
million. In previous years, at the height of the artisanal mining boom, 13 metric tonnes of gold
were exported through Lome, Togo, a good portion of which was smuggled from Burkina Faso.
Productivity in artisanal mining camps has declined over the past two years as deeper depths are
exploited and hence the clandestine exports through Lome have decreased. Nonetheless, the
magnitude of past production is indicative of the potential. Burkina Faso is well endowed with
geological formations known as Birrimean greenstone belts which, in other West African
countries (e.g., Mali and Ghana), host major gold deposits. Due to this excellent geologic
potential and availability of risk capital in the international equity markets, over 20 international
companies--among which are some of the largest mining houses such as Broken Hill Proprietary
(Australia), Anglo American (South Africa), Ashanti Gold Fields (Ghana), High River Gold
Mines (Canada) and Echo Bay Mines (USA)--are investing approximately $30 million per year
in exploration. Based on the geology potential, the level of exploration expenditures, and
experience in other African countries, there is every reasonable expectation that mining
companies will find and develop mines over the next ten years which could produce 10-15
tonnes per year of gold with a market value of $110-170 million.
1.6   The Government is aware of the need to sustain the current levels of investment and to
maximize the contribution to the economy from mining development. With support from an
advance under the project preparation facility (PPF), the Government has undertaken significant
reforms during the past two years to remedy systemic deficiencies in the enabling environment
for investment. A comprehensive policy dialogue among various stakeholders was conducted
which resulted in the adoption by the Council of Ministers (January, 1996) of a letter of sector
strategy. Based on this letter a new mining law, consistent with international best practices, has
been approved. A new Ministry of Energy and Mines was created in June 1995, and a
comprehensive study of the roles and mandates of the Ministry and agencies reporting to it has
been conducted. Following an in-depth study of gold commercialization, the Government has
abolished the monopoly of the state owned buying office [Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux
Precieux (CBMP)], and has issued detailed regulations for the establishment of private gold
buying bureaux. It is now necessary for the Government to deepen and consolidate the reforms.
Priority areas include: (a) adopting precise mining, fiscal and environmental regulations; (b)
increasing the performance and efficiency of sector instititutions; (c) developing capacity for
environmental management; (d) up-grading the availability and quality of earth science
information; (e) coordinating various environmental initiatives relative to the sector; and (f)
providing significant training to public and private sector officials to effectively monitor sector
activities. The proposed project will fund technical assistance to the government to address these
areas.



3
1.7  In addition to the current exploration activity by major mining companies, good potential
exists for small-scale, semi-mechanized, locally-owned mining operations. The letter of sector
development policy places emphasis on the rational development of small scale mining. Project
fimds will be used to deliver technical assistance, training, extension and financial services to
small-scale miners. Artisanal mining using simple hand tools is prevalent at over two hundred
sites throughout the country and provides a livelihood for an estimated 75,000 migratory miners,
Burkinabe and other nationalities. Health and safety conditions in and around the artisanal
mining sites are dismal; children of miners have no educational facilities; itinerant young men
away from home contribute to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases; and the artisanal
mining process is highly destructive for the environment. Recognizing these serious problems,
the Government of Burkina Faso has adopted a policy of attempting to improve living and
working conditions in the camps. The proposed Interim Trust Fund project will significantly
assist in this effort through an in-depth socio-economic study of artisanal mining and a
sensitization campaign regarding environmental, health and safety dangers in the camps.



4
2. THE MINING SECTOR
Geological Potential and New Foreign Investment
2.1   During the past two decades prospecting activities on a regional scale, funded by various
donors, have succeeded in identifying promising mineralized zones in the country. Geologists
reason by analogy, comparing known mineral producing zones with the same type of geology in
other areas. It is known, for instance, that volcano-sedimentary formations in Burkina Faso
2
[known as the Birrimean greenstone belts (Proterozoic)] cover approximately 70,000 km . These
geological formations host major gold deposits in Canada, Australia, Mali and Ghana (see
comparative figures, Table 2.B, and Annex N). Thus, there is every reasonable expectation that
if sufficient exploration funds from private sector mining companies can be attracted to Burkina
Faso mines could be discovered and brought into production'. Considering Burkina Faso's
fragile eco-systems, it is even more critical that the type of investors that are attracted are serious
companies with technical and financial qualifications who will operate with due regard to
environmental safety and health aspects.
2.2  It should be taken as a mark of confidence in the basic geology potential of Burkina Faso
that, since 1993, over 20 international mining companies, large and small, have become active in
exploration activities in the country. The companies include Anglo-American (South Africa),
Broken Hill Proprietary (Australia), Billiton (Netherlands), Gencor (South Africa), Outokumpo
(Finland), High River Gold Mines (Canada), Ashanti Gold Fields (Ghana), Channel Resources
(Canada), Rand Gold (South Africa), Santa Fe (USA), Geomaque Resources (Canada), North
Resources (Australia), and several others (see Annex I, map of exploration permits).
Collectively, it is estimated that in 1995 these firms have spent over $30 million on exploration.
The firms are at the "grass roots" stages of exploration (trenches, pits, shallow and deep drilling)
to identify and test for orebodies. It is still too early for a discovery to have been made; however,
preliminary indications are very encouraging. Several factors account for the new interest in
Burkina Faso gold potential, including attention now being devoted to Africa in general in
international mining circles, availability of good "virgin" exploration ground, liquidity in certain
financial markets (Toronto, Vancouver, London, Johannesburg) for risk capital for exploration
ventures, and removal of sanctions against South Africa, which allows the large South African
mining houses to enter the market.
2.3   Mining, if properly managed, can contribute to economic development. Minerals
production can increase a country's yearly value added, tax receipts and foreign exchange
earnings. Moreover, mining operations typically spend 20-40 percent of capital and operating
costs on local purchases, employ and train rural based workforces, and contribute to the transfer
of industrial know-how and management expertise. Globally, extraction of mineral resources
In Mali, for instance, exploration spending by mining companies began on a limited scale in 1987. The Syama
gold mine (4 tonnes/year) was opened in 1990 and the Sadiola Hill gold mine (11 tonnes/year) was opened in
1997.



5
accounts for 3-5 percent of world GDP, 1/5 of world merchandise trade, and employs some 25
million persons. Many countries in Africa, Latin America, and Asia derive substantial portions
of their foreign exchange earnings and tax revenues from the export of mineral products. There
are very real dangers and concerns related to mining, however. Lack of proper environmental
controls and trained personnel to enforce them can leave a bitter and costly legacy for future
generations. Procedures and rules must be put into place for dealing with local communities
which are affected by mining operations. Proper observance of the human rights of indigenous
peoples is often a problem as is dealing with the impacts a modem industrial operation may have
on local cultures and traditions.
Performance of the Sector
2.4   Declared exports of gold represent one of the largest foreign exchange earners for
Burkina Faso. Official gold exports were just over 1 ton in 1996, valued at $13 million, using
current world market prices. In addition, even though the production has declined in recent
years, undeclared exports from artisanal mines are believed to be substantial, (estimated at 2-3
tonnes per annum, worth approximately $24-36 million). The smuggled gold transits
neighboring countries, particularly Mali, Togo, and COte d'Ivoire. The incentive to smuggle is a
direct result of the government monopoly on gold exports and the fact that the State buying
organization, Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP), pays the artisans only 55
percent of the fair market value of the gold produced. The monopoly on gold exports has been
eliminated in July 1996, the role of CBMP is being restructured, and private gold buying offices
will be authorized.
TABLE 2.A: Evolution of Burkina Faso Gold Production
1986- 1994
Kilograms Fine Gold (declared)
Industrial and
Year       Semi Industrial    Artisanal    Total
1986            1,193           246        2,159
1987            3,181           699        3,880
1988            2,558            805       3.363
1989             965           1,255       2,220
1990            1,229          2,295       3,524
1991             956           1,502       2,458
1992             853           1,365       2,218
1993             689           1,268       1,957
1994             523            906        1,429
1995             607            945        1,556
1996             294            769        1,063
Source: CBMP



6
2.5   The Poura Gold Mine, located 200 kms from Ouagadougou, is the only industrial scale
mining operation presently in Burkina Faso. Production has declined in recent years and the
operation has been in serious financial distress since the early 1990s. In 1994, the Government
decided to privatize the Poura mine and seek an international company to take over operations.
Ashanti Gold Fields has been selected to define ore reserves in the underground mine and the
surrounding surface areas and, if the results are positive, to operate the mine. Current plans are
to invest $20 million, of which $6 million will come from private partners and $14 million from
the Government via the mining development and stabilization fund (SYSMIN) of the European
Commission. Because of the involvement of other donors, the proposed project does not intend
to be directly involved in the privatization of the Poura gold mine.
2.6   The Tambao manganese deposit is located in the Oudalan district, approximately 380
kilometers north east of Ouagadougou. The grades and characteristics of the manganese ore are
excellent by international standards, although the reserves are modest in size. However,
industrial development and operation of the deposit is hampered by lack of infrastructure,
principally long and costly transportation routes to seaports. A pilot truck and shovel
exploitation of the deposit was started in 1993 by a Burkinabe-Canadian company joint venture.
Full commercial development of this deposit will depend on penetrating niche markets and, more
importantly, finding an efficient and inexpensive means of transporting the manganese ores to
port.
2.7   The Perkoa zinc deposit, located 135 km west of Ouagadougou and discovered in 1982,
contains massive sulfides with excellent grades of zinc. The World Bank funded the Perkoa
Mining Exploration and Technical Assistance Project in 1984-1991 for $7.4 million to assist in
the delineation of the Perkoa orebody, to find a reputable foreign mining company, and to
negotiate an investment agreement. Subsequently, Perkoa Minerals S.A. was formed, a joint
venture in which Boliden (Sweden) owns 65 percent and the Government 35 percent.
Exploration has proven good reserves; however, weakness in the prices of zinc on the world
market, the financial condition of Boliden, and continuing uncertainties regarding rail
transportation to the coast have delayed full development. Recently, Boliden has relenquished its
rights to Perkoa and the surrounding areas, opening these zones for new exploration.
2.8  In addition to the current exploration activity by major mining companies, good potential
exists for small-scale, locally-owned mining operations. A distinction should be made between
small-scale and artisanal mining. Small-scale miners generally use motorized equipment
(pumps, compressors, hoists, etc.) and other small power tools to extract and process mineral
ores. Use of this equipment not only increases throughput and economies of scale but also
allows the miner to reach depths required to mine hard-rock vein mineralization in addition to the
alluvial deposits. However, use of such equipment requires at least rudimentary scientific,
technical, and mechanical skills. In Burkina Faso such skills, though limited, are either available
locally or could be recruited internationally. In many countries (Latin America and Zimbabwe)
small-scale miners account for a significant degree of mineral production. It is also easier for the
Government to monitor operations and to provide technical extension services to small-scale
miners than it is to artisanal miners.



7
2.9   The letter of sector development policy places emphasis on the rational development of
small-scale mining. Several reforms, supported by the PPF advance, are already underway or
will be undertaken during the project. For instance, revisions to the mining legislation have
strengthened the legal tenure of the small-scale miner allowing him to invest in motorized
equipment, water wells, and other techniques to improve efficiency in operations. Removal of
the government buying monopoly exercised through CBMP will allow the small-scale miner as
well as the artisan to realize the fair market value for the extracted gold. Local private capital
markets need to be analyzed and strengthened, particularly in respect of financial analysis and
evaluation of small scale mining projects, in order to help local entrepreneurs mobilize finance.
Finally, technical extension and training services could be provided by the Government and
private entrepreneurs to support small-scale mining.
2.10  Artisanal mining, on the other hand, makes little or no use of power equipment. This
activity is prevalent at over two hundred sites throughout the country and provides a livelihood
for an estimated 75,000 migratory miners, Burkinabe and other nationalities. Artisanal miners
extract gold bearing ores using simple hand tools, pulverize the material using mortar and pestle,
and wash the powder using crude sluices to pick the flakes of gold from the concentrate. Women
often play a key role in these mining camps both as workers and suppliers of food, retail and
hospitality services. Artisanal mining is fundamentally a result of rural poverty, highlighting a
number of interrelated issues. Health and safety conditions in and around the artisanal mining
sites are dismal: children of miners have no educational facilities; itinerant young men away
from home contribute to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases; and the artisanal mining
process is highly destructive for the environment.
2.11  Experience in many other countries would indicate that resolving the problems of
artisanal mining is not simply a matter of improving the technical proficiency of the artisans but
rather of using an integrated approach to address the social, economic and environmental
dimensions. Government programs to provide technical extension services may be marginally
useful but the lack of scientific and technical skills limits the capacity of the artisanal miners to
absorb modem small-scale mining technologies. Moreover, artisanal camps and mining sites
appear to be organized in a manner appropriate to the nature of the alluvial deposits and the
limited economies of scale which the working groups are able to achieve. Recognizing this, the
Burkina Faso Government has adopted a policy of attempting to improve the living and working
conditions in the camps. Sensitization and education programs need to be directly linked to the
miner, and greater use must be made of the private sector and/or NGOs to deliver such
programs. The proposed IDA project will significantly assist in this effort through an in-depth
socio-economic study of artisanal mining, and a sensitization campaign regarding environmental,
health and safety dangers in the camps. In this respect, considerable scope exists for cooperative
efforts with Bank and other donor-funded projects, specifically the Populations and Aids Control
Project, the Environmental Management Project, as well as Danish support for environmental
sensitization for rural communities.



8
TABLE 2.B: Comparative Indicators of Gold Mining
Burkina Faso and Other Countries
Country           Gold Production   Export Value    Est. No. Artisans   Birrimean
(kilograms, declared)  US$ million               Surface Area
(kms2)
Burkina Faso (1996)   1,063         US$13.0         50,000 - 100,000   70,000
Ghana (1993)      40,677            US$486.5       100,000          75,000
Cote d'lvoire (1993)   1,400        US$16.8         20,000 -40,000    102,000
Mali (1993)        7,000            US$84.0         50,000 - 100,000   43,500
Quebec (Canada)   42,000            US$497         N.A.             30,800
3. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGISLATIVE ASPECTS
Mining Policy and Strategy
3.1   As part of project preparation activities, the Government has instituted a number of
reforms to modernize the enabling environment for mining investment. The reforms (new
mining law, institutional restructuring, suppression of the gold buying monopoly, among others)
flow from a comprehensive dialogue conducted among involved stakeholders on mining policy
and strategy. The dialogue produced a Letter of Sector Development Policy which was endorsed
by the Council of Ministers on 17 January 1996 (see Annex H). The letter recognizes the
increased importance of mining for the economic development of the country. In order to foster
development of the sector, particular emphasis is placed on creating an enabling environment
that will attract and, above all, retain private sector investment in mining. The letter recognizes
the responsibility of government institutions to support investment through the development of
favorable investment the conditions, maintenance of a climate of confidence between investors
and the Government, reinforcement of mining and geology information databases, development
of human resources, and encouragement of local expertise. The central administration has
already been reorganized through the newly established Ministry of Energy and Mines. The
letter clarifies the regulatory mandates of other sector institutions such as the National Mines
Commission, the Mining Development Fund, BUMIGEB, and CBMP (see paragraphs 3.8 -
3.11). With respect to the last two agencies, the letter calls for substantial changes to reinforce
their roles as supporting the private sector rather than competing with it. The letter recognizes
that tax revenues from mining should be increased while, at the same time, maintaining fiscal
mechanisms that are competitive by international standards. The letter also states that procedures
should be put into place to alleviate existing bottlenecks in clearance through customs of
equipment and materials needed for mining operations. The letter recognizes the significant
socio-economic impacts that small-scale mining has in Burkina Faso and the role of the State in
supporting its rational development through programs of technical and/or financial assistance to



9
entrepreneurs. Because mining operations can cause severe damage to the environment, the
letter emphasizes the role of the State in protecting and managing the environment. It recognizes
the need to reinforce government services responsible for environmental protection, calls for the
development of environmental regulations and standards, and requires companies to submit
environmental impact statements detailing, among other matters, plans for site rehabilitation and
mine closure. Finally, the letter puts emphasis on the requirements to train local personnel in
both the public and private spheres.
Legislative Framework
Mining Law
3.2   The existing mining code of Burkina Faso is contained in articles 448 through 546
inclusive of the Law on Agrarian Reform - RAAF of June 4, 1991, as amended by Decree No.
93 of August 31, 1993. Even though the RAAF was passed in 1991 (amended in 1993) the
mining code dispositions, in essence, are based on the old Upper Volta mining code of 1964.
These dispositions reflect the political and economic options taken at that time which are no
longer reflective of international best practices in mining legislation. Because of its critical
importance, new mining law was drafted during project preparation and was approved by the
Council of Ministers prior to negotiations. During project implementation, mining regulations
and other enabling legislation will be drafted to complete the basic mining law.
3.3   The new mining law, to be introduced to the National Assembly within one year
following credit effectiveness, has addressed several deficiencies in the previous mining
legislation (see Annex M). The new law clearly exempts hydrocarbons from the mining code,
which is consistent with international best practices. It has reduced the number of types of
mining tenements, and strengthened the provisions of consultation to adjudicate disputes
between occupants of the surface and title holders of sub-surface rights. The new law reduces
excessive government discretionary authority, especially in the prerogatives of the mines
administration to grant or withhold exploitation licenses. Greater emphasis is placed in the new
law on monitoring compliance with requirements "ex-post" rather than screening mining title
applicants "ex-ante". The new law limits government participation in mining ventures to 10
percent (consistent with other West African countries) where previously this had been a matter of
negotiation. The new law also strengthens the security of tenure of small-scale and artisanal
miners, although artisanal mining authorizations are for shorter duration than regular mining
titles. Mining regulations which detail the application of the fundamental mining law, in
particular with respect to title and cadastre management, are to be prepared during project
implementation. In addition, numerous regulations on health, safety, environment and other
matters need to be prepared. Ancillary legislation, such as commercial codes, occupational
health and safety, labor agreements, and other legal and quasi-legal instruments, will be updated
as these apply to mining operations.



10
Taxation and Mine Investment Code
3.4   Administration of the fiscal framework pertaining to mining investments in Burkina Faso
is confused and ineffective. This has been identified as a serious impediment to investment, not
only in the mining sector but other sectors as well. The fundamental deficiencies in the general
fiscal regime concern excessively high rates of taxation of profits (45 percent corporate income
tax, 25 percent dividend withholding tax), insufficiencies in depreciation schedules and depletion
allowances, and the use of "forfeit" or lump sum payment methods of taxation. Given the
pressing need to provide intemationally competitive conditions for mining investment, the
government passed a Mining Investment Act in 1993. This act was amended in April 1995 to
tighten certain fiscal dispositions, reflecting comments which had been offered to the
Government by the Bank as well as other donors.
3.5   The Mining Investment Act, as amended, brings the investment conditions for the mining
sector, by and large, in line with international best practice. Mining investments are subject to a
35 percent rate of income tax rather than the normal 45 percent. In addition, the dividend
withholding tax is reduced from 25 percent to 12.5 percent. No tax holidays or exemptions from
these taxes are permitted. Investments benefit from duty-free entry of equipment and materials
during the exploration and development phases of the project, and through the third year of
commercial production. Corporate registration and stamp duties are exempted as is the value-
added tax on exported products. A decree adopted by the Council of Ministers in October 1996
establishes ad valorem royalties of 3-7 percent depending on the mineral, surface rents (charges
per square kilometer of the area held under permit), and mining permit issuance fees. The ad
valorem royalties are in line with international practice and the new decree increases the surface
rents and permit issuance fees which were previously very low by international standards.
3.6   There are significant problems with the effective implementation of the Mining
Investment Act. For instance, in spite of the exemptions, customs and excise taxes are still
sometimes assessed on necessary imports for exploration projects. Fees and excise contributions
are often arbitrarily assessed on operations as, for example, road taxes and unit charges on the
transportation of goods, which have no basis in international practice. The customs service
requires guarantees when admitting equipment under temporary admission. While the practice is
a reasonable one, the banking system in Burkina Faso is not familiar with bond guarantees and
hence the importing company must deposit with the bank the full value of customs due,
effectively negating the intended benefit of the customs exemption. In the past the lack of
coordination and communication between the MEM and the Directorates of Taxation and
Customs of the Ministry of Finance has hindered effective application of the legislation.
Improvements in coordination have been made recently. A substantial constraint remains the
inexperience and inadequate training of government personnel responsible for taxes and customs
with international methods of calculation, assessment, collection, and auditing of fiscal
obligations. The proposed project places considerable emphasis on training in applied mining
taxation and sets up programs within the National School for Financial Management for such
training to be made on a continual basis.



11
Mining Sector Institutions
3.7   In the past the Bureau of Mines and Geology of Burkina Faso (BUMIGEB) was the state
agency responsible for all policy, administrative, and geology functions with respect to the
sector. This confusion of functions posed serious problems of conflict of interest between the
role of the state as regulator and its role as direct participant in operations. Beginning in the
early 1990s, the Government moved to distinguish these roles: a full-fledged Ministry of Energy
and Mines was created in July 1995. The Letter of Sector Development Policy also establishes
the primacy of the central administrative institutions and delineates the overall functions and
mandates of the various sector institutions. The PPF advance has supported an institutional
study to further clarify these roles and the preparation of an action plan to render them
operational (see annex A).
3.8   Administration of the sector is vested in the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). The
Ministry is responsible for: (a) the policy functions--the definition of sectoral policy and
strategy, preparation of different legal and fiscal documents, coordination among ministries; and,
(b) the administrative functions -- the day-to-day management and application of the policies.
The Directorate General of Mining and Geology (DGMG), within MEM, develops and
coordinates mineral sector policies, promotes exploration and extraction activities, supervises the
meetings of the National Commission for Mines, disseminates documentation, and monitors
payments of surface rents and royalties by mining companies. The new organizational structure
of DGMG, which includes sub-directorates for geology, mining and small scale mining, is in line
with international standards. Also under direct administration of the Ministry are the Mining
Development Fund and the National Commission of Mines. Other project offices, such as
Perkoa Mineral and the National Office for the Tambao Manganese, are also attached to the
Ministry.
3.9   While the new organizational structure of MEM is put into place, the new organizational
structure and institutional mandates are the major challenges facing the Government. MEM
personnel are mostly mid-level professionals lacking in practical experience. Attracting trained
personnel to the directorate is difficult since the general civil service salary scales are grossly
inferior to those of the private sector or BUMIGEB. Finally, MEM does not have sufficient
infrastructure (vehicles, office equipment, survey devices, computers, etc.) to carry out its
assigned tasks.
3.10 The Bureau of Mining and Geology of Burkina Faso (BUMIGEB) was created in 1978 as
a quasi-autonomous public enterprise of an industrial and commercial character. BUMIGEB
currently employs some 320 persons; its annual budget is around $4 million. In order to raise
funds, BUMIGEB has concentrated on the sale of geo-services, to the detriment of basic
geology, and earth system data collection and mapping. This means that Burkina Faso does not
have complete geological maps which investors require in order to localize exploration research.
The Letter of Mining Sector Development Policy more clearly defines the role of BUMIGEB.
The agency's principal function will be to provide geological survey services (geology
cartography, geophysics and geochemical surveys, hydrogeological reconnaissance), and mineral



12
potential inventories over the national territory. BUMIGEB will execute a "contrat plan" with the
Government from time to time under guidance from MEM. Additionally, within the tasks given
to it by the Ministry, BUMIGEB may assist in diversifying target commodities (other than gold)
and assist in development of small scale mining initiatives.
3.11  The Burkina Faso Gold Marketing Board (CBMP) was created in 1986 and is the state-
owned entity which previously held the monopoly on the export of all gold, for both small- and
large scale operators. A study of CBMP operations and gold marketing in Burkina Faso revealed
that since 1990 gold officially handled through CBMP had declined from 3.5 tonnes in 1990 to
just over I tonne in 1996. The principal reason for the decline was that CBMP would pay the
artisanal miners 55 to 60 percent of the world market price for gold. In 1996, CBMP handled
769 kilograms of artisanal gold; a reliable estimate of the amount clandestinely crossing the
borders is at least 2 tonnes: The monopoly of CBMP was also viewed as a major constraint by
potential private company investors, rendering difficult forward sales of gold and the use of gold
loans, standard financing mechanisms for the development of new mines. The monopoly was
rescinded by Decree No. 96-231 /PRES/PM/MEM of 3 July 1996. CBMP will be restructured to
assist artisanal miners to improve working conditions and to monitor the artisanal mining camps.
Rules and regulations for the authorization of private gold buying offices have been adopted.
Environmental Management
3.12 The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which was developed with Bank
assistance, defines the policy framework for environmental management in the country and
coordination of environmental activities across sectors. Implementation of the Plan has been
hindered in the past by poorly organized and ineffectual government institutions. The Ministry
of Environment and Water (MEW) was created in June, 1995 to replace the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism. The reorganization of the ministry is an indication of the importance
the government attaches to environmental and natural resource management. Of particular
significance is the fact that the portfolios of environment and water have been merged to reflect
the concerns of the Government with regard to the increasing scarcity of water for domestic,
agricultural and industrial consumption.
3.13  To implement a cross-sectoral approach, a National Council for Environmental
Management (CONAGESE) has been set up. The Council has the mandate for formulating
policies and strategies for environmental management at the national level to integrate
environmental concerns into the developmental agenda, and consolidation of data from sector
environmental strategies and actions plans. Other departments within MEW include the
Directorate General of Environmental Preservation (DGPE), responsible (in close coordination
with CONAGESE and sector Ministries) for evaluation of environmental impact assessments
(EIAs), Directorate General of Forests and Biodiversity, which is responsible for forests,
ecosystems and biodiversity.
3.14 The government enacted an Environmental Code in January 1994. This Code replaced
the articles pertaining to environmental matters of the Agrarian and Land Reform Act (RAF) of
1991, [Part VII Article, 547-582]. The Environment Code, however, requires some



13
modifications to take into account the changes that have taken place in the institutional
framework and the new cross sectoral approach adopted by the Government. The Environmental
Code also needs to be complemented with sector specific regulations. The Netherlands is
considering funding technical assistance to prepare regulations, particularly with reference to
EIAs. In addition, the UNDP, UNEP and FAO have selected Burkina Faso as a pilot to carry out
a review of environmental legislation and formulate relevant regulations.
3.15  Given the speed with which industrial mining operations are expected to become
operational, and the continuing environmental problems of the artisanal miners, the Burkina Faso
government will be severely challenged to ensure proper environmental management of the
mining sector. For instance, issues to be considered include site rehabilitation and
decommissioning, disposal of tailings, handling and storage of toxic wastes, air and water
pollution, dust suppression, impacts on flora and fauna, social and local community issues,
indigenous peoples issues, resettlement and relocation, provision of social services, and many
more. Considerable progress has been made in recent years on developing environmental
protection and mitigation technologies and monitoring mechanisms involving public and private
sector institutions. Modalities can be put into place for consultation with locally affected
communities to identify processes for minimizing environmental damage and where necessary to
develop compensation packages for the disturbances caused. Of special concern are the artisanal
mining sites in many areas of Burkina Faso. These are virtually devoid of even the most
rudimentary environmental protection techniques and are much more difficult to monitor and
control. The fundamental problem in Burkina Faso is the critical lack of experience with modem
environmental management and, while the Bank and other donors have been active in assisting
the government with ad-hoc technical assistance, much remains to be done. The mining
companies that are currently active in Burkina Faso have identified the lack of environmental
regulations and government capacity to effectively enforce and monitor compliance as a major
uncertainty effecting investment.
3.16  The letter of sector development policy recognizes the significant impacts that mining
activities will have on the environment. It declares that the state should reinforce the agencies
responsible for environmental protection, require companies to submit environmental impact
statements, and make provisions for site rehabilitation. Accordingly, an officer of the DGMG
has been designated responsible for day-to-day monitoring and supervision of health, safety, and
environment aspects specific to mining operations. The officer will be assisted by a small cadre
of professional civil servants to form an environmental unit in the MEM and draw upon the
Burkina Faso private sector as well as BUMIGEB for specialized services such as laboratory
analysis, data collection, and specialized studies including the development of environmental
guidelines specific to the mining sector. The unit will be responsible for ensuring coordination
with the CONAGESE and supplying sectoral information to CONAGESE as needed.
3.17  The environmental components of the proposed project are designed to increase and
reinforce environmental management capacity at the national and the sector levels. Technical
assistance, training, and logistical support will be directed towards the CONAGESE, and the
directorates within MEW dealing with environmental protection and water management, and the
environmental management unit within MEM. The activities to be funded are designed to



14
address five critical needs: (a) establish national and sector environmental norms and standards;
(b) create national and sector environmental information systems; (c) increase needed skills and
capacity to enforce and monitor compliance with environmental guidelines, norms and standards;
(d) implement a national environmental awareness program; and (e) review the legal and
institutional regimes pertaining to water use and discharge with particular reference to mining
operations. Care has been taken to ensure coordination and complementarity of the proposed
Bank activities with those of other donors, particularly those of the Netherlands. The division of
responsibilities and activities to be undertaken by the different agencies are summarized in
Annex A.
4.  THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE IN BURKINA FASO
IDA Lending to Burkina Faso
4.1   As of April 1997, IDA commitments to Burkina Faso amounted to US$778 million for 50
credits. Of the 12 operations currently under disbursement, 3 are in agriculture, 2 in primary
health, 2 in education, and one each in institutional development, urban development, urban
water supply, private sector, and transport. IFC has no current investments but is very interested
in the potential of mining. In the mid- 1980's relations between the Government and IDA were
strained due to disagreement on public investment program priorities, and new IDA
commitments to Burkina Faso averaged US$17 million per annum; no new credits were
approved in 1986 and 1987. Since the political changes of 1987, the Government has sought
increased help from the donor community. In response, during the past eight years (1989-1996)
IDA has approved 17 credits and quadrupled the size of its program.
Lessons Learned from Other IDA Supported Projects
4.2   Because IDA has been involved in Burkina Faso with a significant lending program only
since the early 1990s, experience with a variety of lending programs is not as extensive as with
other countries of the region. Nonetheless, an assessment (Public Sector Management Review -
July, 1995) of institutional development aspects of various projects suggests that the overall
performance of these projects has been mixed. This is due to several factors and provides lessons
for the design of new projects. The past decade has been one of considerable political
effervescence in Burkina Faso. It is not surprising, therefore, that political instability is cited as a
cause of poor implementation. Strong ownership and commitment at the highest political levels
to the project's objectives, activities and implementation are therefore essential for success. Just
as important as the top level political commitment is a broad consultative participatory process
used in designing and preparing projects to build ownership of various constituencies.
Institutional instability and unclear lines of authority between government departments are also
cited as hindrances to effective implementation. It is thus essential that mandates and
responsibilities of implementing organizations be clearly delineated. Frequent changes in project
personnel, caused in part by the political turbulence as well as poor management skills, point to
the necessity of retaining capable and dynamic project staff. Finally, procurement problems and
lack of familiarity with Bank procedures are also cited as problems; these deficiencies are being



15
improved through project "launch" workshops, and early and effective association with
disbursement, procurement and audit functions.
4.3   Care has been taken during project preparation to learn the lessons of previous projects.
A broad based participatory approach has emphasized the role of a "working group" composed
of senior representatives of relevant government departments and the private sector. The
working group has been primarily responsible, with the assistance of external consultants, for the
preparation of the letter of sector development policy, the study on gold commercialisation, the
formulation of the new mine law, and the institutions study. The project has assisted and will
continue to assist, in the definition and effective implementation of the roles and mandates of the
sector institutions: the Ministry of Energy and Mines, BUMIGEB and CBMP. The project
recognizes the limited personnel and skills available in the government institutions and for this
reason emphasizes the use of local and foreign consultants to build necessary capacity. The
project supervision plan provides for intensive and regularly scheduled visits to assist local staff
in managing the project. A major concern regarding the delineation of responsibilities on
environmental management between MEW and MEM has been addressed by ensuring that
project activities reinforce the cross-sectoral approach recommended by the Bank and adopted by
the government. Technical assistance will be targeted to the specific tasks required by each
institution as outlined in Annex A. Finally, care has been taken to liase with other donors
involved with the mining sector and/or environmental management. The project activities are
complimentary to, and in many cases build upon, these efforts.
Bank Involvement in Mining in Burkina Faso and Other Countries
4.4   During the late 1 970s and early 1 980s the government's strategy for development of
mining emphasized direct State involvement in exploration, development and operations. A few
projects were attempted during this period by State owned entities including the development of
the Tambao manganese project by the General Office of the Tambao Project (OGPT), the
development through SOREMIB of the gold mine at Poura, the operations of the Burkina Faso
Gold Buying Office (CBMP) with respect to artisanal mining, and the regulatory and mineral
exploration roles of BUMIGEB. These operations have been only marginally successful at
stimulating development of the mining sector.
4.5   A break with this tradition of direct State intervention in the sector occurred in 1988 with
the first IDA-supported mining project. Following discovery of zinc mineralization at Perkoa,
IDA approved the Perkoa Mining Exploration and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1482) in
1984 in the amount of US$7.4 million (see paragraph 2.7). The credit closed in 1991 (3 1/2
years late), timely implementation having been hindered by lack of a counterpart team to carry
out promotional work on the deposit. As a result of the Perkoa Mining Project, as well as the
interest in the country's mineral potential evidenced in the past two years by private mining
companies, the trend away from direct State intervention towards encouragement of private
sector investment has accelerated. The number of firms interested, the magnitude of the sums in
play, and the type and quality of multi-national companies concerned point to the urgent need to
capitalize on the reform process.



16
4.6   Over the past 10 years, the Bank has funded mining technical assistance projects in many
countries. These projects provide support to governments to reform legislative, fiscal and
institutional aspects pertaining to mining, strengthen and build capacity within government
supervisory instititutions, up-grade geological databases, put into place environmental
regulations and capacity to monitor compliance, privatize state owned mining enterprises, assist
small scale mining, and conduct other activities. These projects have demonstrated that with
appropriate sector policies and with a sound regulatory environment, governments can attract and
retain investments in the mining sector. In Ghana, for instance, reforms initiated in the mid-
1980s have resulted in a four-fold increase in gold production, the privatization of three
previously state owned mining enterprises, and an increase in exploration and mining
development undertaken by international mining companies. In Mali, private investors have
brought two industrial gold mines into production since 1990. Argentina, which traditionally has
never had a mining tradition, was recently ranked as the first choice by an international mining
investment survey. IBRD approved a technical assistance project to Argentina in the amount of
US$40 million in mid-1995.
4.7   Successful implementation of these technical assistance projects depends on strong
government commitment and support, adequate supervision by Bank staff, dynamic local
coordination, and the extensive use of qualified local and foreign consultants. The
complimentarity of the Bank's technical assistance projects with the role of affiliated institutions
such as the International Finance Corporation and the Multi Lateral Investment Guarantee
Agency is critical. In the countries cited above both agencies are active in mobilizing financial
and insurance guarantee resources for private sector led mining projects. In Burkina Faso, even
though mining projects are not sufficiently advanced to merit serious consideration, the IFC and
MIGA have undertaken scouting missions to the country and have maintained close contacts
with the companies involved.
4.8   IDA has supported numerous projects in Africa and other regions to formulate National
Environmental Action Plans, and to set up the capacity in the countries to operationalize these
plans. In West Africa, projects in the Gambia, Benin, Nigeria and Ghana support the setting up
of enviromnental institutions, formulation of environmental regulations, guidelines, standards
and norms; the setting up of national enviromnental information systems; human skills
development to carry out the formulation of guidelines both national and sector specific as relates
to environmental management; formulation of guidelines for preparation of EIAs and skills to
review EIAs; formulation of environmental education programs and the development of
technical skills for sample testing, laboratory analysis, monitoring and evaluation.
4.9   In Burkina Faso, previous efforts by IDA, to support the Government's initiatives in
operationalizing the NEAP were thwarted due to ineffective institutions and lack of awareness of
international best practices. As indicated in paragraphs 3.12-3.14, the situation has since
changed and the Government has instituted reforms that are in accordance with international
practices. The next stage is to support these initiatives by provision of necessary technical
assistance and training to establish capacity for operationalizing the reformns. The proposed
project provides an opportunity for IDA to collaborate with other donors to provice the assistance
needed to initiate the reforms.



17
5. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives and Overview
5.1   The main objectives of the proposed project are to help: (a) establish an enabling
environment to both promote private investment in mining and to ensure real and sustainable
contribution to economic growth; (b) strengthen public and private sector capacity to effectively
administer regulations and to monitor sector developments; and (c) establish capacity in the
country for environmental management. Additionally, the project aims to: (i) stimulate private
sector response to the growing need for a variety of mining and environment related technical
goods and services; and (ii) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to facilitate the
development of small scale mines and to improve the social, health and environmental conditions
of artisanal miners.
5.2   Consistent with these objectives, the project will comprise four main components:
(a)   Regulatory and Fiscal Framework and Training component will support the following
activities: (i) prepare mining regulations; (ii) strengthen legal skills and negotiating capabilities;
(iii) improve administration of the fiscal regime applicable to mining; (iv) build sustainable
capacity in applied mining taxation through special training modules at the National School of
Finance Management; and (v) provide continued training in mining law and environment
through twinning arrangements with foreign universities.
(b)   Institutional Strengthening and Resources Management component will support the
following activities: (i) operationalize the roles and improve internal management procedures of
key sector institutions: MEM, BUMIGEB, CBMP; (ii) restructure the geo-services currently
offered by BUMIGEB; (iii) improve cadastre and mining title management services at MEM;
(iv) establish and sustain an environmental unit within MEM; (v) up-grade and improve the
geology database, including the creation of a National System of Earth Science Information
(SNIST); and (iv) reinforce the technical capacities of BUMIGEB to assay and test minerals.
(c)   Environmental Management component will help: (i) establish capacity for
monitoring compliance with regulations by strengthening the relevant institutions; (ii) assist in
the preparation of mining sector specific environmental regulations and monitoring procedures;
(iii) establish a national environmental information system and database (EIS); (iv) design and
implement a national environmental sensitization and awareness campaign; and (v) provide
training in areas of environmental policy formulation, monitoring, and management.
(d)   Small Scale and Artisanal Mining Component will support programs to: (i) study the
socio-economic, geology and environmental specifics of artisanal and small scale mining with a
view to determining a strategy, including appropriate delivery mechanisms, for providing
extension services; (ii) establish a pilot training center for small scale miners, with the possibility
to expand to two additional centers in the event the pilot program is successful; (iii) support the



18
Directorate of Small Scale Mining Promotion within the MEM to design and deliver technical
advice, geology information, and extension services to small-scale miners; (iv) assess
mechanisms to evaluate financing proposals of small-scale mining operators; (v) promote the
identification, development and dissemination of small-scale mining equipment through private
sector delivery mechanisms; (vi) implement in coordination with the MEM, an environmental
sensitization and awareness campaign in the artisanal mining communities.
Detailed Description of Project Components
A. Regulatory and Fiscal Framework and Training: ($4.7 million; Duration:five years)
5.3   Based on the statement of sector development policy, as well as the new mining law, this
component will fund technical assistance to carry out the following activities:
(a)   Mining Regulations and Negotiations Capacity: This sub-component will provide
assistance to: (i) prepare enabling regulations under the new Mining Code to cover, in particular,
health, safety and environmental aspects; (ii) reinforce the capacity through technical assistance
and training of the Ministry responsible for mines to administer and implement mining
legislation, including negotiations skills for dealing with the private sector; (iii) fund the
participation of Burkinabe public and private officials in studies, seminars, conferences, and
other training related activities outside of Burkina Faso; (iv) acquire information on minerals
legislation and establish a library for such information; (v) provide for the services of an
independent internationally respected mining attorney to assist in negotiations as may be
required from time to time by the government; and (vi) fund English language training for
negotiators and key government officials.
(b)    Training Program in Mining and Environmental Regulation. In order to ensure that
the government is able to sustain the improvements in administration of the mining sector over
the long term, this sub-component will finance an extensive and continuous training program in
applied mining and environmental law in-country training, seminars, and workshops will be
conducted at least once a year and special short term training courses will be funded. A training
arrangement with a foreign university (University of Quebec, Abitibi) is envisaged to assist in
the establishment of this program.
(c)   Mining Taxation: This sub-component will: (i) assist in the preparation of
internationally acceptable applications texts and manuals in respect of mining related taxes; (ii)
provide in depth training to and upgrade the capacities of government officials in financial and
tax analysis, calculation of tax base, asset valuation, assessment and collection of taxes, and
general application of the fiscal regime; (iii) fund the participation of public and private sector
Burkinabe officials in studies, seminars, visits and conferences concerning mining taxation; and
(iv) provide for the auditing services of an internationally recognized mining auditing firm in the
event it becomes necessary for the government to engage their services during the course of the
project.



19
(d)    Training Program in Applied Mining Taxation. Building capacity and training for the
long term in the application of the mining tax regime is essential if Burkina is to receive an
internationally acceptable level of fiscal revenues from the mining sector. This sub-component is
designed to provide in-depth training in applied mining taxation, accounting, and finance through
the National School for Finance Management. The School, established with the assistance of the
UNDP in 1988, provides professional training to approximately 500 students drawn principally
from public sector institutions. The sub-component will provide short term technical assistance
to train local professors as well as to provide instruction in mining related fiscal training for the
student tax inspectors and technical specialists. In addition to long term training within the
existing curriculum, one or two special seminars will be organized each year around specific
themes. The principal objectives of these seminars is to not only provide refresher training for
civil servants but also a means to train private sector consultants and professional specialists.
B.    Institutional Strengthening and Resources Management: (US$7.0 million; Duration -
Five Years)
5.4   Institutional Strengthening. The sub-component will provide technical assistance to
MEM and the sector institutions (BUMIGEB, CBMP, CNM) to: (a) operationalize the roles,
functions and mandates of each of the institutions as defined in the institutional studies currently
underway and the letter of sector development policy; (b) reinforce institutional capacity and, in
particular, prepare manuals of operations and internal procedures, simplify organizational lines of
authority and relationships, assess staffing needs and prepare descriptions of required skills and
work procedures; (c) develop human resources and provide exposure to international best
practices through participation at international conferences and seminars; (d) strengthen capacity
in the Ministry responsible for mines to effectively monitor safety, health and environmental
conditions at mining sites, including artisanal and small scale mining; (e) conduct a country-wide
study in high potential areas of requirements for mining related infrastructure (power, water,
transport); (f) reinforce the logistical and material capacities of the public institutions to execute
their duties; and (g) subject to positive feasibility studies, to reinforce within BUMIGEB the
laboratory and the pilot mineral processing unit.
5.5   Mining Cadastre and Permit Management. This program will build and reinforce
capacity for the mining title administration within the General Directorate of Mines and Geology
to: (a) prepare diagnostic studies, manuals of internal procedures and operational directives
relative to mine title and land management administration; (b) design and implement a
computerized mining titles cadastre to identify existing titles and potential areas for exploration
and to monitor the obligations of title holders (para 7.2 (i)); and (c), finance visits and study tours
for relevant and responsible Burkina Faso officials in the application of title procedures and land
management. Under this sub-component, suitable data processing equipment, software and
equipment required for the cadastre system will be acquired.
5.6   Environmental Protection Unit. This sub-component will provide technical assistance
to the environmental protection unit within the General Directorate of Mining and Geology. This
unit will complement the environmental monitoring and control functions of MEW which has the



20
mandate for overall environmental monitoring of activities in all sectors. Technical assistance to
this unit will: (a) build capacity in the relevant institutions to review and formulate
environmental policies, strategies and guidelines, and to establish capacity to monitor
compliance with the standards and guidelines; (b) strengthen linkages and coordination with
other sectoral agencies through the establishment of sectoral networks, meetings, seminars and
workshops; (c) formulate procedures and guidelines for issuance of operating permits and
licenses; (d) establish and implement a continuous and comprehensive program of environmental
monitoring of mining operations; (e) provide training in the mitigation and control of specific
mining environmental problems, including site rehabilitation, disposal of toxic wastes, air/water
pollution, consultation with local communities; (f) reinforce capacity to assess environmental
impact statements; (g) provide training in reviews of plans for mine closure and site
rehabilitation; (h) fund the participation of relevant officials in overseas seminars, conferences,
and courses related to mining and the environment; and (i) prepare sector specific environmental
regulations, norms, technical specifications, and guidelines, in collaboration with the Directorate
General of Pollution Prevention. In close liaison with MEW (DGPE, DGFBD), training will be
provided under this sub-component on evaluating of environmental impacts, formulating of
regulations, and in laboratory skills and trend analysis, sample collection and analysis.
5.7   Mining and Environmental Information Database. Sector specific environmental
baseline data do not exist for many parts of the country and, where they do exist, they are poorly
organized and not integrated into the land management system. Such data, if available, would
also assist the Government and mining companies to design and execute environmentally
responsible operations. In order to carry out efficient monitoring of mining operations and to
develop environmental norms and standards, the sectoral agencies as well as the MEW need to
have ready access to environmental baseline data. Under this sub-component, a data base would
be set up in BUMIGEB through an environmental geology service to provide: (a) compilation of
hazardous materials including mine wastes, effluents and emissions generated by mining
operations; (b) general baseline data, information and statistics such as wind patterns,
hydrogeology, flora/fauna, bio-diversity, air, soils and water quality, etc. in and around mining
areas; (c) description and status of internationally acceptable technologies for pollution control
and abatement; (d) details and status of treatment of contaminated water sources; (e) status of
mitigation and land reclamation with regard to artisanal sites; and (f) the collection and
investigation of basic environmental information, including hydrogeological assessments of
major mining districts. The data base will also list details of environmental action plans,
mitigation plans, environmental audits and de-commissioning plans of ongoing mining
operations to provide references and monitoring indicators. This database will be closely
integrated with the National Environmental Information System to be set up at MEW. Apart
from the development of the data banks themselves, the program would result in two main
products: (a) a sectoral environmental assessment, and (b) a mining and environment
management plan, as fundamental tools to orientate the development of sectoral environmental
policies.
5.8   National System of Earth Science Information System (SNIST). This sub-component
will upgrade and improve the current geology and mining database developed with the assistance
of the UNDP. It will assist BUMIGEB to establish an efficient organization to develop



21
consistent data banks and to store, retrieve and disseminate geological information. In particular,
the sub-component will: (a) define, install, and put into operation a National System of Earth
Science Information (SNIST), responsible for the overall sectoral coordination of data banks and
dissemination of information; and (b) coordinate the development of mineral data banks and a
system to analyze and produce thematic sets of information based on satellite imagery and
available data.
C     Environmental Management Component: ($3.0 million; Duration: Five Years)
5.9  In addition to support of the project for the environmental unit within the MEM, this
component will provide technical assistance, training and equipment to the MEW (CONAGES
and the Directorates of Water and Forests, Hydrology, and Environmental Protection) to
operationalize the NEAP and to establish capacity in key agencies for environmental
management. The component will comprise four sub-components as described below:
(a)   Establishment of a National Environmental Information System (EIS). The sub-
component will provide technical assistance, training and equipment to assist CONAGES
in setting up a national environment information system (EIS). The objective will be to
increase availability of core databases, the accessibility and exchange of existing
environmental information held or produced by Burkinabe institutions, and to ensure
compatibility of different types of data. Technical assistance will target the establishment
of an environmental information exchange network, including government services, the
private sector and NGOs, the preparation and distribution of a catalogue of existing data,
the harmonization of data held by different institutions, the development of in-country
capacity to constitute and maintain key databases, and the development of capabilities to
analyze environmental information. The EIS will support key activities of CONAGES,
including environmental policy formulation, monitoring of sectoral policies, programs
and projects, supervision of the EIA process, and the design of environmental education
and awareness programs. The EIS will be set up in close coordination with the
information gathering and processing activities undertaken by sectoral agencies.
(b)   Design and Implementation of an Environmental Education, Information and
Communication program (EIC). Generating awareness of environmental concerns in
the general population is critical to the pursuit of environmental protection and natural
resource conservation. To this end, this sub-component will provide technical assistance,
training and equipment to CONAGES to: (i) integrate environrental education into the
curricula of the primary and secondary schools in coordination with the Ministry of
Education; (ii) integrate environmental education into adult literacy programs through the
preparation of teachers manuals and training courses; and (iii) design and implement an
environmental awareness program for communities, the media, grass roots organizations,
local NGOs, women's organizations and special interest groups. The design and
implementation of the EIC should be carried out in close liaison and consultation with
IUCN and other partners such as the Danish Red Cross, as well as the DGFBD and
DGPE of MEW, which have experience in working with communities and with the



22
dissemination of environmental education. The sub-component will fund workshops,
seminars, and the production of audio and video materials, and promotional materials to
be disseminated through outreach programs.
(c)   Annual Environment Report, Inventory, Hydrology Evaluation, and Industrial
Pollution. Technical assistance, training and equipment will be provided to: (i) prepare
an annual State of the Environment report; (ii) compile an inventory of ongoing projects
and programs in the country and categorize them by potential environmental impact; (iii)
conduct a study on environmental economy and analysis of ongoing projects in the
country; (iv) support the development of an indigenous goods and services industry with
respect to environmental protection through encouraging local consultancy contracts; (v)
conduct studies and/or audits of selected operations as a method of "on-the-job" training;
(vi) conduct a study on economic valuation of natural resources and biodiversity
(DGFBD); (vii) conduct a study on hydrology and availability of water systems in
specific areas towards the development of a program of sound management of water use,
with particular reference to mining activities (DGH); and (viii) evaluate the situation with
respect to industrial pollution and toxic wastes, with recommendations concerning the
management thereof (DGPE).
(d)   Training. This sub-component will provide training, both overseas and in-country, to
officials in the relevant departments of MEW and MEM in the following areas: (i)
environmental policy, education and economics, and valuation of natural resources and
biodiversity; (ii) environmental impact assessments of projects; (iii) screening of policies
and programs for possible environmental impact; (iv) formulation of environmental
guidelines, standards, and norms; and (iv) environmental accounting.
D.  Smal Scale and Artisanal Mining Component: ($4.2 million; Duration: Five Years)
5.10  The possibility of developing small-scale, semi-mechanized mines in Burkina Faso is
considered excellent. These could, in time, offer an alternative to the extensive artisanal mining
in the country which is highly detrimental to the environment and the health and safety of the
artisanal miners. Accordingly, this sub-component will support the sector institutions in the
following activities: (a) conduct technical, socio-economic and environmental studies of small-
scale and artisanal mining areas to determine delivery mechanisms for providing extension
services; (b) subject to positive feasibility studies acceptable to IDA, establish one pilot training
center in order to promote small scale mining -- a mid-term review of the project will be carried
out on the performance of the pilot center; upon favorable evaluation, two additional centers
would be funded under this sub-component; (c) review the capacity of local financial institutions
to assess proposals of small-scale mining operators with a view to identifying local private
financing mechanisms; (d) subject to positive feasibility studies, fund the pilot testing of small-
scale mining equipment and dissemination thereof through private sector delivery mechanisms;
(e) design and implement, in coordination with the environmental sensitization programs of
MEW, an educational campaign directed towards small-scale and artisanal miners in matters
such as environmentally responsible mining practices, disposal and use of toxic chemicals,
environmental protection and site reclamation/rehabilitation, health (including AIDS prevention



23
in association with the Bank-funded program on Population and Aids Prevention), sanitation and
safety.
Project Cost, Administration and Implementation
5.11  Project Cost Estimates and Financing. The estimated cost of the project is $22.5
million, including local duties and taxes, physical and price contingencies, with a foreign
component of $13.1 million, equivalent to 57 percent of total project costs. Costs were estimated
on the basis of 1995 prices, and included six percent yearly escalation for consultant services and
equipment.
5.12 IDA would finance the consultant services, equipment and supplies, and training
associated with the project for a total of $21.4 million, or 95 percent of the total project costs.
The Government would finance incremental operating and some other local costs for
$1.1 million equal to five percent of total project costs, plus any duties and taxes payable on
items procured for the project (estimated at $750,000) through a Project Account. Deposits
would be made for this purpose on a periodic basis (para. 5.23).
TABLE 5.A: Cost Estimates (Inclusive of Local Duties and Taxes)
US$ million)
Project Component                     Local         Foreign     Total
Legal Reform and Capacity Building      0.9           1.6        2.5
Mining Taxation and Fiscal Training     0.7           1.5        2.2
Institutional Strengthening and        2.7            4.3        7.0
Resources Management
Environmental Management                1.4           1.6        3.0
Small-Scale and Artisanal Mining       2.0            2.2        4.2
Project Coordination                   0.6            0.2        0.8
Unallocated                            0.8            1.2        2.0
PPF                                     0.3           0.5        0.8
Total                                  9.4           13.1        22.5



24
5.13  The proposed financing plan is as follows:
TABLE 5.B: Financing Plan (Inclusive of Local Duties and Taxes)
(US$ Million)
Local             Foreign           Total
IDA                       8.3                13.1             21.4
Government                1.1                 0.0             1.1
Total                  9.4                 13.1            22.5
Implementation
5.14 Project Coordination. The Director General of Mines and Geology has been named
Project Supervisor (SP) responsible for the supervision of the project for the Ministry. A local
Project Chief (CP) possessing experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA will be recruited
for the day-to-day management of the project as a condition for effectiveness (para 7.3 (d)). The
CP reports to the Ministry concerning the management of the project and is responsible, inter alia
for: (a) coordination of the different components of the project; (b) liaison with the Bank,
various departments of the Government, consultants and other vendors, and third parties; (c)
organizing various studies, workshops, seminars and conferences; (d) management of project
finances, accounts, and audits; (e) procurement of goods and recruitment of consultants. Officials
within MEW and the MEF have been appointed to liaise with the CP on implementation matters
pertaining to environmental and fiscal components. A Steering Committee (SC) will be
established prior to credit effectiveness (para 7.3(b)). This Committee will be responsible for the
overall supervision of the project, and will pay particular attention to the progress made in
achieving the project objectives. Under the presidency of the representative from the Ministry of
Energy and Mines, the Committee will be composed of senior level repesentatives of MEM,
MEW, MEF, and possibly other ministries involved with the project. The SC will meet twice a
year to examine the implementation of the project and submit to IDA a report of its findings.
5.15  Project Startup. The Project Supervisor and Project Chief would organize a project
launch workshop at about credit effectiveness time to bring together all of the participating
agencies. The workshop would clarify responsibilities and assist in initiating Project activities,
as agreed in the TORs and schedules described in detail in the Project Implementation Manual,
including the key performance indicators which have been agreed to during negotiations
[paras 7.1 (c)].
5.16 Annual Work Program and Budget. Annual work programs will be prepared by the
Project Chief, with the collaboration of all participating agencies, by December 31 of each
calendar year for the duration of the project. The first year's program has been finalized in
consultation with IDA during negotiations. Subsequent annual work programs will be based on



25
an evaluation of the previous year's experience [para 7.2 (b)]. These reviews will be carried out
during supervision activities during the first quarter of each year.
5.17 Mid-Term Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would take place, not earlier
than two years, and not later than 2 1/2 years, after effectiveness of the credit. The review would
be carried out jointly by the MEM and IDA. Annex C contains a detailed list of project
performance indicators; Annex G contains details of the elements to be reviewed at mid-term.
5.18  Procurement. Procurement of goods and services will be in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Consultants to be financed by the Credit will be selected in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (1996).
The main terms of reference for work included in the Project were drafted during preparation and
were reviewed during the appraisal (see Annex F, Contents of Implementation Manual). Draft
contracts for consultants and consultancy services will follow IBRD Standard Form of Contracts,
as applicable. To facilitate management of the various consultants, component activities will be
grouped into convenient packages. The Government has been exposed to the Bank's Guidelines
and Procedures through PPF implementation. The CP will collaborate closely with the Central
Directorate of Public Procurement (DCM) and the Directorate General of International
Cooperation (DGCOOP) whose personnel are experienced in Bank procurement methods and
procedures.
5.19  Procurement of goods, at an estimated cost of $4.3 million equivalent, includes the
purchase of computerwares, furniture, instruments, field and office equipment, and vehicles. The
acquisition of small-scale mining equipment, laboratory and mineral testing equipment is
conditional subjet to feasibility studies acceptable to IDA related to the pilot mining centers and
mineral testing facilities. Specialized informatics and computer equipment, instruments and
technical equipment, and small-scale mining equipment would be procured through ICB
procedures in packages costing over $250,000. Appropriate after-sales service, maintenance
arrangements and spare parts will be procured jointly with such packages. NCB will be used for
packages of amounts less than $250,000 whenever local suppliers ensure sufficient competition
and foreign firms would not be interested, up to an aggregate amount of $1.4 million. Goods and
materials which need to be purchased in packages smaller than $25,000, up to an aggregate
amount of $250,000 would be purchased through national shopping procedures acceptable to the
Bank, requiring the comparison of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. All
ICB procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. For NCB,
standard bidding documents will be developed and cleared with the Bank before use.
5.20  Consultancy. In order to simplify project management and to achieve cost reductions,
the various consultancy services to be engaged by the Government will be grouped into packages
corresponding to the activities of the various components of the project (see Annex D).
Internationally recruited consultants will be responsible for providing workplans, local and
foreign personnel, and some logistical support, in accordance with the terms of reference
prepared for the component activities. Budgets for recruitment of local consultants have in
general been provided under a single arrangement within each component, except as otherwise
noted. The proposals will be invited in a phased manner over the lifetime of the project to reflect



26
the priorities established by the Government and IDA.
5.21  Training. Establishing capacity in the country for effective project implementation and
sustainability are major priorities in Burkina Faso. Towards this end, the project has a major
focus on training and skills development in both the public and private sector. The training will
include overseas as well as in-country training in areas ranging from mining legislation, mining
taxation, environmental regulation, and monitoring, mining and environmental information
systems, geological data collection, retrieval and dissemination, environmental economy and
quantitative analysis and environmental education. The Government and IDA will review
training proposals every six months of project implementation, and provide non-objection. The
proposals will indicate candidates of training, where and when the training is to take place, the
costs involved and what responsibilities the candidates will assume after the training. The
training program for the first year of the project is detailed in the implementation manual.
TABLE 5.C: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million, inclusive of all local taxes and duties)
Project Element     ICB         NCB        Other       Total
Goods and Equipment      2.5         1.8                    4.3
(2.5)       (1.4)                  (3.9)
Consulting Services
Technical Assistance                           14.4        14.4
(14.4)     (14.4)
Training                                        2.7         2.7
(2.3)      (2.3)
Miscellaneous 0 & M                              0.3         0.3
PPF                                              0.8         0.8
(0.8)      (0.8)
Total                    2.5         1.8        18.2        22.5
(2.5)       (1.4)      (17.5)     (21.4)
Note: Amounts in (parenthesis) are to be financed by the Interim Trust Fund.
5.22  Procurement Decisions. All contracts for goods and equipment under ICB and contracts
with consulting firms expected to cost $100,000 or more, and consulting contracts of $50,000 or
more for individual consultants, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The proposed
review procedures will result in a prior review of over 90 percent of total contract value under the
project, which is satisfactory. Procurement arrangements for consulting services are summarized
in Annex D. The eligibility of certain countries to bid on consultancy and goods contracts under
this project, as well as other restrictions, may apply under rules governing procurement for
Interim Trust Fund projects.



27
5.23  Project Account. The Government will establish a Project Account in CFA francs in a
commercial bank for local matching funds. It will make semestrial deposits in advance on the
basis of an agreed budget for the project, proposed by the Government and accepted by IDA by
October 31 of each year. The first contribution of 125,000,000 CFA will be deposited in the
account as a condition of credit effectiveness. [para 7.3 (a)]
5.24  Disbursement. To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of
withdrawal applications, a Special Account will be opened in CFA francs in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation amounts to 250,000,000
CFA francs and covers about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an
amount of 125,000,000 CFA francs representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will be
deposited in the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total
amount withdrawn from the credit account and/or special commitments issued amount to the
equivalent of $ 10 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments below CFA franc
equivalent to $100,000. Requests for replenishments will be submitted monthly. All
replenishments should be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than $100,000 for
equipment and consulting firms; and (b) contracts of less than $50,000 for individual consultants
and training, which will be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All
supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained for review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and external auditors.
TABLE 5.D: Allocation and Disbursement Categories
(Expenditure Inclusive of all local taxes and duties)
Category             Credit        Percentage of Expenditure
Allocation          to be Financed
(US$ million)
1. Consultancy Services      12.5       100% of foreign and
local expenditures
2. Equipment *                3.9        100% of foreign and 80%
local expenditures
3. Training                   2.2        100% of foreign and 90%
local expenditures
4. Unallocated                2.0
5. PPF                        0.8
Total                        21.4
(*) Includes an amount of US$1.4 million to be disbursed following enactment of
Mining Code and satisfactory outcome of feasibility studies concerning a pilot mineral
treatment test unit at BUMIGEB and a pilot small-scale mining training center.



28
5.25  Project Implementation and Reporting. The Government of Burkina Faso will be the
Borrower, represented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The implementing agency will
be the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM).
5.26  Project implementation will be assisted by a Project Supervisor (SP) and a Project Chief
(CP) within MEM. Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the CP will submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank. A first project review to be carried out 12 months after
effectiveness, and subsequent ones yearly thereafter, will provide a detailed analysis of progress
in implementation.
5.27 Accounts and Audits. The CP will engage a private accounting firm to maintain
accounts and process payments pertaining to project activities. The recruitment of a private
accounting firm, and the setting up of an accounting system satisfactory to IDA, are conditions of
credit effectiveness [para 7.3 (c)]. The accounting system will be maintained throughout
implementation of the project. In addition, the CP will recruit such professional assistance as
may be required to adequately manage project accounts and financial records. Among other
specifications, the accounting system should include an integrated database for management of
consultancy contracts, integrated budgeting and budget monitoring systems, multiple currency
capabilities, and reconciliation of accounts with Bank disbursement categories. The Project
Account, the Special Account and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure, will be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and appointed for at least three
years. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year. Appointment of an auditing firm acceptable to IDA is a condition of
effectiveness [para 7.3 (c)]. All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained for review
by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
6. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT
Benefits
6.1   Burkina Faso has significant potential to establish competitive industrial scale gold
production. Currently, officially declared gold production is just over 1 tonne, contributing
$13 million to GDP. Using internationally acceptable parameters and the experience to date in
other African countries, production of industrially mined gold in Burkina Faso could reach 10-15
tonnes per year within 10 years, contributing a value added to GDP of $110-$170 million. In
recognition of this potential, the Government has declared 1995-2005 as the decade of mining
development, and the CAS has identified mining as one of the engines of growth for the
economy. An initial interest has been shown in the country's potential by mining investors.
However, because Burkina Faso does not have a mining tradition, regulatory and institutional
frameworks need to be put into place, and government personnel trained to administer the sector
in order to sustain the present levels of private sector investment, and to derive the maximum
economic benefits from mining operations.



29
6.2   The project supports the establishment of a new mining law and regulations, as well as
the building of capacity to administer the regulations which are essential for sustained
investment. For instance, a properly designed and administered mining title system and cadastre
registry will help to ensure that current levels of exploration expenditure (around $30 million per
year) are sustained and that exploration acreage is effectively worked over time by turning the
ground over to successive companies. Orderly and transparent mining title issuance is an
immediate and pressing need. For this reason, expert technical assistance is being provided early
in the project to help the Government avoid mistakes in dealing with private companies which
could result in costly litigation or forgone revenues at a later date.
6.3   The project will establish needed skills for monitoring, control and audit of mine
operations to ensure satisfactory compliance with financial and fiscal reporting requirements.
Assuming strengthened tax assessment and collection functions, total tax receipts (royalties,
license fees, income, dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes) on the order of $20-30 million
could be anticipated at the 15 tonnes/year level of production.
6.4   The project will put into place regulations, procedures, and monitoring capacity to ensure
that industrial pollution (air, water, soil, disposal of toxic wastes) from mining operations is kept
within internationally accepted standards. Skills will also be developed to ensure that mine
operations are carried out in a responsible manner with due regard to the health and safety of
workers and local communities. The project will put into place regulations for adequate technical
and financial provisions during mining operations to ensure that mines, once closed and
decommissioned, do not leave a bitter and costly legacy for future generations. The project will
develop national and sector environmental management databases, establish norms and
standards, and increase awareness of environmental issues within the general public. The costs
associated with failure to take into account environmental protection during the early stages of
growth of the mining industry are difficult to quantify but could easily reach the tens of millions
of dollars.
6.5   The project seeks to encourage the local private sector to respond to the requirements of
the growing industry for the supply of local goods and services. Based on experience in other
countries, assuming the 15 tonnes/year level of production, a reasonable estimate of purchases by
industrial operations of local goods and services is $15-25 million/year. These purchases would
include reagents and chemicals, construction materials, fuel and lubricants, spare parts, hardware,
small equipment, food stuffs, and other materials. Many of these goods would be produced or
manufactured locally, adding value to the economy and creating jobs. Even when the materials
are imported, they are typically purchased through local distributors, whose profit margins
generate value. Estimated wages paid to the largely rural-based work force is $10 million/year.
While modern industrial mines are not labor intensive operations, the substantial and regular
wages received by a mine worker will typically provide for a large extended farnily in rural areas.
In addition, the communities and region where mine operations are located would benefit from
social and physical infrastructure which ordinarily is associated with medium- to large-scale
mine operations.



30
6.6   The project directly supports the development of small-scale mining through the
provision of technical extension services and the encouragement of manufacturing of elementary
mining equipment. Small-scale mining, ideally suited for local entrepreneurs, will provide
substantial benefits to employment and the rural economy. Over a ten-year time horizon, a
reasonable estimate is the development of seven small-scale mines, each producing 100
kilograms/year of gold for an aggregate value of production of $8.4 million.
6.7   Finally, by suppressing the monopoly of CBMP on gold exports, artisanal miners will
receive a fair market price for their production and clandestine exports of gold will be curtailed.
While it is impossible to completely eliminate smuggling of gold, a reasonable estimate is that 70
percent of the currently smuggled gold (believed to be around 3 tonnes annually) would be
declared and subject to royalties. The project will also help to improve social and economic
conditions in the artisanal mining community.
6.8   Two questions need to be asked when assessing the benefits of the project. First, will the
reforms and the improvements in the enabling environment continue anyway without the project?
Second, if not, then is project design the most effective use of the funds to deepen the reform
process and thereby stimulate investment in the sector? In response to the first question, the
reforms would probably continue but would not be complete or strong enough to sustain
investment nor would they necessarily be consistent with international best practice. The
presence of Bank support, suggestions, and guidance on best practices in the sector during
preparation was instrumental in keeping the reform process moving and on-track. Access to
international expertise through the project is necessary to continue the reforms and to build
human capacity to effectively administer the sector. With respect to the second question,
international technical assistance, if properly managed and twinned with local expertise, will be
cost effective to assist the Government to effectively administer the sector. The Government's
ability to respond quickly to the requirements of private sector developers is becoming more
urgent as these companies approach feasibility stage. Important decisions in respect of
significant financial commitments and environmental impacts must be made over the next few
years. Thus, foreign technical expertise in the project is "front-end loaded". Getting started on
the right foot with mining companies, and applying international best practices from the
beginning, can avoid mistakes which could prove very costly in the long run.
6.9   Based on experience in other West African countries, reasonable assumptions regarding
development of viable projects, and models of hypothetical mining operations based on
international parameters, it is possible to estimate high, medium and low case scenarios of the
contribution of mining to the national economy. These scenarios are summarized in Table 6.A
(see also Annex G).



31
TABLE 6.A: Projected Contribution of Mining
(US$ million)
Scenario       Specification      Yearly Export Yearly Fiscal    Yearly
Earnings     Revenues        Local
Expenditures
Low        1 medium gold mine           45            7             10
Medium    1 medium and 1 large gold     168           28           35
mine
High       1 medium + 1 large gold     246            45           53
mine, Perkoa zinc mine,
Tambao manganese mine
Risks
6.10  The project seeks to build capacity in a modest cadre of government officials, and
encourage the Burkinabe private sector to supply goods and services which have in the past been
supplied by the Government. A principal risk to this approach is the ingrained attitudes that
perpetuate direct state intervention in all activities, compounded by fears that the Burkinabe
private sector will not or cannot respond. Care has been taken during project preparation,
through extensive policy dialogue among government officials, to build commitment for the
private sector oriented approach. The use of local consultants and training activities for both the
public and private sector are key features during project implementation.
6.11  Another risk is excessive government discretionary control over the sector. Care has
been taken during project preparation to build ownership for reforms to liberalize the sector.
This is evidenced in the letter of sector development policy which is acceptable. Furthermore,
the new mining code, the drafting of which was funded by the PPF advance, is in line with
internationally acceptable practices. The new mining code has been approved by the Council of
Ministers.
6.12 A further risk to the project is confusion as to the roles of the government supervisory
institutions, principally BUMIGEB and CBMP. While project preparation activities have funded
studies on the mandates and roles of these institutions, care must be exercised during
implementation to vigorously pursue the recommendations for restructuring.
6.13  Finally, there is a risk that the on-going UNDP mining sector program, the support
proposed by UNDP, UNEP, FAO, The Netherlands and Denmark for environmental capacity
building, and the support provided by the European Commission to carry out geological mapping
programs will overlap with the program supported by the Bank. Care has been taken during
project preparation to maintain close contacts with all organizations to ensure that activities are
complementary and do not overlap.



32
Sustainability
6.14 The extensive dialogue with the Government, private sector stakeholders and the Bank
undertaken during project preparation and through implementation of the PPF has assisted in
building Burkinabe ownership for the project. Furthermore, the project places strong emphasis
on institution building, training, human capital development and environmental awareness. The
effect of this emphasis will be to increase the efficiency of the sector, improve capacity and
effectiveness of both the mining as well as environmental sector organizations, increase fiscal
revenues and enhance the basis for revenue generation.
6.15  Specific actions to be undertaken during project preparation and implementation include
the formulation of a new mining law, enhanced institutional capacity to administer the sector,
and close coordination between MEM and MEW. In addition, the project will be managed
through existing government bodies rather than a separate project coordination unit.
6.16  Capacity building will be through on-the-job training and technical assistance delivered
directly to the line supervisory institutions. Several mining projects are nearing the feasibility
study stage and it is, therefore, urgent that internationally skilled technical assistance be quickly
made available to the Government in order to ensure that they conform to international standards.
It is for this reason that technical assistance in legal, fiscal, institutional and environmental
components has been "front-end-loaded" to take place early in project implementation.
Technical assistance will also be programmed on a "back-stopping" basis later in project
implementation, to ensure sustainability. The consultants' terms of reference will encourage
foreign consultants to work closely with local counterparts, and will include precise and specific
measurements of the transfer of know-how and local capacity building. Experience in other
countries would suggest that these technical assistance programs are sustainable if they are
underpinned by a vibrant private sector and community involvement. Once mining companies
establish operations, a critical mass is formed among companies, trade associations, ancillary
industries, financial institutions, vendors and suppliers, labor unions, community associations
and other segments of civil society. The constituencies thus formed articulate demands for a
sustained response on the part of the Government and, in certain instances, directly assist in the
effort.
7. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONALITIES
7.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached in the following:
a)    adoption of an Implementation Manual incorporating a detailed training plan, and
terms of reference for consultancy services consistent with the activities outlined
in the preceding chapters;
b)   terms of reference for project auditors; and
c)    direct and indirect indicators of project performance, as appended in Annex C



33
7.2    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following project milestones to be
achieved during project implementation:
a)    maintain, project coordination arrangements, as established at effectiveness;
b)    prepare in consultation with IDA, annual work programs and budgets no later than
December 31 of each year; (para 5.16);
c)    carry out, not earlier than two years nor later than two and one-half years after
project effectiveness, a comprehensive mid-term review jointly by MEM and IDA
(para 5.17). The review would evaluate the key activities as outlined in Annex G;
d)    no later than.the beginning of the second year after credit effectiveness, and
subsequently at the beginning of each year thereafter, prepare and submit to IDA a
report on the progress of the project with particular reference to achieving the
project objectives and conditionalities (para 5.26);
e)    no later than June 30 after the end of each calendar year, prepare and submit to
IDA an audit, acceptable to IDA, of the project accounts (para 5.27);
f)    no later than one year after credit effectiveness, submit to the Assembly of
Peoples Deputies (para 3.3), for deliberation and adoption, the new mining code
and model investment agreement;
g)    no later than one year after credit effectiveness, formulate and approve the various
application decrees to be prepared under the legal reform components of the
project [para 5.3 (a)];
h)    no later than one year after credit effectiveness, render operational the institutional
structure outlined in the Letter of Sector Development Policy and prepare internal
procedures and manuals for the institutions (paras 3.7 - 3.11 and 5.4 - 5.8);
i)    no later than two years after credit effectiveness, render operational a
computerized mining title and land management system (para 5.5);
j)    no later than two years after credit effectiveness: (i) render operational an
environmental unit within the DGMG; and (ii) promulgate and put into operation
mining regulations, guidelines and standards pertaining to environmental
protection and consultation with local communities [paras 5.6 and 5.9 (a)]; and
k)    no later than two years after credit effectiveness, design and initiate
implementation of an Environmental Education, Information and Communication
(EIC) programs [para 5.9 (b)];
1)    no later than three years after credit effectiveness, establish the National
Environmental Information System (EIS) [para 5.9 (a)]; and



34
m)   no later than four years after credit effectiveness, put into operation the National
System of Earth Science Information (para 5.8);
7.3   Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government will provide evidence to IDA of the
following:
a)    confirmation of: (i) establishment of the Project Account (para 5.23 and 5.27);
(ii) deposit of the first installment of counterpart funds of CFAF 125 million
(para 5.23); and (iii) appointment of auditors for the project acceptable to IDA
(para 5.27);
b)    setting up of a Steering Committee for the project under the auspices of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines (paragraph 5.14).
c)   recruitment of a private accounting firm and the setting up of an automated
accounting system satisfactory to IDA (para 5.27);
d)   recruitment of a Project Chief, possessing experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA (para 5.14)
Performance Indicators
7.5   Several direct and indirect indicators of achievement of project objectives have been
discussed and agreed between the Government and IDA. The indicators are linked directly to the
economic benefits to be derived from the project. The indicators are phased during the
implementation of the project and will be reported on a regular basis to IDA. The indicators are
summarized in Annex C.



35
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 9
MINING AND ENVIRONMENT INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
Ministry of Energy and Mines
|Mirwster
Permarnt nSeretry 
DIreoaeo nr                     Attced Servics      t          1loatGl of Cand Mt F. -   Clnra Swv
Direeioiate of               SORE.'.18                Drrord  Mln                   Dkkf of
_  Planning              _Poura Gold Mir_                   (DM)                 _    Studi" wnd
Direcrftorates of            S UMIGEB                Dwedond of Geology             Dirdw  of
Povwer                |Gsokogical Survey                (DG)                     Ad _nWo
_      :            1   ~~~~~~~~~~Geo-Servkces                                     end
I CBMP                      Diredtorde of
|Gold Buying Office          alr Mnirng Promobon
_(DPPM)
OGPT 
Tambao Mangano  
PERKOA
Perkoa Zrnc Projer



36
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 9
MINING AND ENVIRONMENT INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND WATER
Minister
Permanent Secretary
Delegate Minister      CONAGES
(Water Affairs)
Directorate General    Directorate General    Directorate General
Of                   Of                       Of
Water and Forests      Environmental              Hydrology
Preservation
Directorate of       Directorate of           Directorate of
-  Village Forest    - Pollution Prevention   -   Potable Water
Directorate of       Directorate of           Directorate of
_    Wildlife and    - Urban Improvement      -  Agro-hydrology
Hunting
Directorate of                                Directorate of
_     Fisheries                               -  Water Inventory
Regional                                      Regional
_    Directorates                                  Directorates



37
ANNEX A
Page 3 of 9
MINING AND ENVIRONMENT INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT
Ministry of Environment and Water
Minister
Permanent Secretary
National Council for
Environment Management
CONAGES
Sitting Consultative      Interministerial            Technical               Permanent
Court                  Council                 Committee               Secretariat
(consultative)        (decision making)            (follow-up)           (implemention)
Division of
Technical and
Administrative
Coordination
Division of
Legislation, Regulation
and Impact Assessment
Division of
Training
Division of
Policy and
Planning



38
ANNEX A
Page 4 of 9
Mining Sector Institutions
1.    In the past,the Bureau of Mines and Geology of Burkina Faso (BUMIGEB) was the state
agency responsible for all policy, administrative, and geology functions with respect to the
sector. This confusion of functions posed serious problems of conflict of interest between the
role of the state as regulator and its role as direct participant in operations. Beginning in the
early 1 990s, a secretariat of mines was established to more clearly distinguish the regulatory
from the operational functions. This reform has been reinforced with the creation in July 1995 of
a full-fledged Ministry of Energy and Mines. The letter of sector development policy further
establishes the primacy of the central administrative institutions and delineates the overall
functions and mandates of the various sector institutions. The PPF advance has supported an
institutional study to further clarify these roles and the preparation of an action plan to render
them operational.
2.    Administration of the sector is vested in the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). The
Ministry is responsible for: (a) the policy functions - the definition of sectoral policy and
strategy, preparation of different legal and fiscal documents, coordination among ministries; and,
(b) the administrative functions - the day-to-day management and application of the policies.
BUMIGEB, reporting to the Ministry (Directorate of Geology), is responsible for the geological
functions - the generation and dissemination of geology and environment database. The
Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP), also reporting to the Ministry, no longer has
the monopoly on gold export operations. Henceforth, it will concentrate on providing technical
assistance to artisanal miners. In addition to these principal entities, autonomous project offices,
such as Perkoa Mineral and the National Office for the Tambao Manganese Project, are attached
to the Ministry.
3.    The new organizational structure of MEM is in line with international practices.
However, the operationalizing of the new organizational structure and institutional mandates is
the major challenge facing the Government. MEM personnel are mostly mid-level professionals
lacking in practical experience. Attracting trained personnel to the directorate is difficult since
the general civil service salary scales are grossly inferior to those of the private sector or
BUMIGEB. Finally, MEM does not have sufficient infrastructure (vehicles, office equipment,
survey devices, computers, etc.) to carry out its assigned tasks.
Central Administrative Institutions
The Directorate General of Mining and Geology, within the Ministry of Energy and
Mines, has overall responsibility for sector administration and management. The DGMG
develops and coordinates mineral sector policies, promotes exploration and extraction activities,
supervises the meetings of the National Commission for Mines, disseminates documentation, and



39
ANNEX A
Page 5 of 9
monitors payments of surface rents and royalties by mining companies. The new organizational
structure of DGMG is in line with international standards. The DGMG is sub-divided into three
directorates:
(a)   Directorate of Geology (DG), responsible for overall direction of mineral
inventory and geology exploration work, including monitoring compliance with work
commitments and expenditure minima of mine title holders;
(b)   Directorate of Mines (DM), responsible for preparation and application of mine
health and safety aspects, monitoring exploitation activities, and overseeing the
protection of the environment in collaboration with other relevant ministries, and
maintaining files on exploitation activities in the country;
(c)   Directorate of Small Mining Promotion (DPPM), responsible for preparation and
implementation of strategies to promote small-scale mining, training of small-mine
operators, assistance in setting up fabrication of local mining tools and equipment, and
legal assistance to small-scale miners.
5.    A mining development fund (FDM) has been established under DGMG, as is the
practice in many countries relying on mining revenues. The fund will receive a portion of permit
issuance fees, surface rents, and ad valorem royalties. These funds will be used to finance
promotional activities, research programs, purchase of control and monitoring equipment, and
general costs associated with the exercise of the surveillance function.
6.    The National Commission of Mines (CNM) is a consultative organ under the Ministry
of Energy and Mines. Its role is to analyze the economic and regulatory context pertaining to
the mining sector, establish sector priorities with respect to the national economy, and review
investment applications. The commission is headed by the Minister responsible for mines and
includes representatives of the ministries of finance, transport, environment, industry and
commerce, health, and labor.
Bureau of Mines and Geology of Burkina Faso (BUMIGEB)
7.    BUMIGEB was created in 1978 as a public enterprise of an industrial and commercial
character. This allows it a certain management autonomy and, in theory, releases it from the
normal complex civil service procedures as well as the applicable civil service salary scales. As
originally conceived, the role of BUMIGEB was to be the all-encompassing state agency
responsible for the sector to: issue mining permits, collect and disseminate geology information,
and sell geo-services, such as drilling and laboratory analysis. BUMIGEB currently employs
some 320 persons; its annual budget is around $4 million. BUMIGEB is expected to be self-
funding but in reality has shown financial losses (approximately $700,000) in recent years.



40
ANNEX A
Page 6 of 9
8.    As a result of its financial difficulties, BUMIGEG has in recent years concentrated almost
exclusively on the sale of geo-services, to the detriment of basic geology and earth system data
collection and mapping. In order to attract mining companies with the technical expertise and
risk capital they can devote to detailed exploration, governments typically supply earth system
data and maps on a regional scale. These maps should include information on topography,
hydrology, physical infrastructure, agriculture and pastoral features, cadastral and land tenure
records, human and animal populations, background levels of pollution and other forms of
information necessary for proper land management and environmental control.
9.   In spite of funding from internal and external sources, basic earth system maps and
information in Burkina Faso are insufficient. For instance, only slightly more than half of the
country (13 mapping sheets out of a total of 2 1) is covered by geology cartography at a scale of
1/200,000, the international norm. Tectonic and general geology maps at a scale of 1/1,000,000
need to be updated, using modern techniques and recent information and interpretation theories.
Geophysical and geo-chemical surveys have only covered one-half of promising Birrimean
zones. During the course of their operations artisanal miners uncover basic geology but, as yet,
no systematic effort has been made to map these areas. Geographical information systems
currently being implemented in other Government agencies, principally the National Burkinabe
Institute of Geography, only treat a portion of the required datasets. The earth system work of
BUMIGEB not only needs to be enhanced but also made compatible with, and integrated into,
the national environmental information system at the MEW.
10.   The letter of mining sector development policy more clearly defines the role of
BUMIGEB. The agency's principal function will be to provide geological survey services
(geology cartography, geophysics and geochemical surveys, and hydrogeological
reconnaissance), and mineral potential inventories over the national territory. BUMIGEB will
execute a "contrat plan" with the Government from time to time under guidance from MEM.
Additionally, within the tasks given to it by the Ministry, BUMIGEB may assist in diversifying
target commodities (other than gold) and assist in development of small-scale mining initiatives.
Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP)
11.   CBMP, created in 1986, is the state-owned entity which previously held the monopoly on
the export of all gold, for both small and large-scale operators. Faced with the phenomenal
expansion of artisanal mining activities partly as a result of the Sahelian droughts, its original
objectives were primarily to control fraud and generate income for the Government through
royalty payments and taxes. A secondary objective was to organize the artisanal miners. A
study of CBMP operations and gold marketing in Burkina Faso, recently conducted by the
Government as part of the PPF advance, reveals that, after some initial success, CBMP is now
having problems meeting its objectives. Since 1990, the gold officially handled through CBMP
from the Poura industrial
mine and artisanal workings has declined from 3.5 tonnes in 1990 to just over I ton in 1996.



41
ANNEXA
Page 7 of 9
CBMP employs 69 persons, and has a network of buying agents at the principal artisanal mining
sites in the country. The posted price for gold purchased by CBMP is set periodically in relation
to the London Bullion Market. However, because of high overhead charges and numerous
intermediaries, the artisanal miners only receive 55 to 60 percent of the fair market value of the
gold they extract. It is not surprising that, in spite of policing efforts, a considerable quantity of
gold is smuggled to neighboring countries. In 1995, CBMP handled 950 kilograms of artisanal
gold; a reliable estimate of the amount clandestinely crossing the borders is at least 2 tonnes.
The monopoly of CBMP was also viewed as a major constraint by potential private company
investors, rendering difficult forward sales of gold and the use of gold loans, which are standard
financing mechanisms for the development of new mines.
12.   The letter of sector development policy stated the intention of the Government to rescind
CBMP's monopoly on the export of gold. Accordingly, the monopoly was rescinded by Decree
No. 96-23 I/PRES/PM/MEM of 3 July 1996, allowing the Government to meet a key condition
of negotiations. The decree stipulates that, after a transitional period of one year, during which
time CBMP will continue to purchase artisanal gold and assist in the shipment of industrial gold,
commercialisation of gold will be done by authorized entities. CBMP will be restructured to
assist artisanal miners to improve working conditions and to monitor the artisanal mining camps.
A further condition of negotiations was the preparation of detailed rules and regulations for the
authorization of private gold buying offices. These regulations have been adopted.
Environmental Institutions
13.   The environmental components of the proposed project are designed to increase and
reinforce the capacity of national and sector institutions in environmental management. The
Government recognizes that the adequacy of the institutions in this respect has been lacking in
the past and has undertaken a number of reforms and reorganizations to remedy the deficiencies.
The principal reform has been the reorganized Ministry of Environment and Water. The new
ministerial organization includes the portfolio of water affairs which previously was a separate
ministry.
Functions of the Permanent Secretariat of the the CONA GES:
(a) analysis of current or future environmental policies and the periodic up-dating
thereof;
(b) preparation and implementation of environmental strategies of sector institutions and
non-governmental organizations;
(c) coordination of the implementation of various environmental agreements;
(d) implementation of the National Action Plan for the Environment (NEAP);



42
ANNEXA
Page 8 of 9
(e) supervision of the coherence of various environmental legislative and
regulatory texts;
(f) application of the Environment Code;
(g) preparation and application of strategies concerning environmental education
and communication;
(h) periodic reports and inventories of environmental projects and programs;and
(i) dissemination of environmental information.
14.   The secretariat is organized into four divisions for: (a) technical and
administrative matters; (b) policy and planning; (c) legislation, regulations and
environmental impact statements; and (d) development of human capacity and aptitudes
for environmental management.
15.   A "delegate minister" within the Ministry of Environment and Water is
responsible for implementation of the national water policy, the general directorate of
hydrology, various services concerned with water and water management, and inter-
African secretariat for water. The General Directorate of Hydrology prepares inventories
and evaluations of water resources, prepares plans for hydro-agriculture and potable water
schemes, executes various water supply and management projects, and supervises the
application of water legislation. The General Directorate is composed of: a Directorate
of Potable Water, a Directorate of Agriculture Hydrology, a Directorate of Water
Resources, an administrative and financial service, a water documentation center, and ten
regional hydrology offices.
16.   The environmental management unit within the Ministry of Energy and Mines has
been created as a condition of negotiations of the proposed Interim Trust Fund credit.
This unit will be responsible for the day-to-day management of environmental questions
related to the mining industry. These duties include, but are not limited to: (a) advising
the permanent secretariat of CONAGES relative to sector environmental policy and
strategy; (b) preparing mining specific environmental regulations, norms, standards, and
control procedures; (c) analysing and recommending environmental impact statements
submitted by proposed mine developments; (d) inspecting and monitoring compliance
with environmental regulations at mining operations; (e) developing and collecting
environmental baseline data and information related to mining operations to be integrated
into the National System of Geology and Earth Science Information (SNIGST); and (f)
assisting in the preparation and implementation of sector specific environmental
education and sensitization campaigns.



43
ANNEX A
Page 9 of 9
DONOR ASSISTANCE AND
DIVISION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSABILITIES
Ministry of                                                    Ministry of
Environment                                                    Energy and
___ _ _ _   _Mines
Item                    Actions              Donor            Item              Actions                Donor
National environmental   NEAP                Bank (1993)       Sector            Develop action plans    Bank
policy                                                         environment
_____  ___  policy
Legislation and         Complete             UNDP/             Sector specific  Develop sector regs,    Bank
regulations             environment code     UNEP/FAO/         regulations      standards, norms
Prepare environment  Bank/lUCN/
regulations         Dutch
Impact assessments      Develop capacity to   Dutch            Sector and site    Develop guidelines   Bank
evaluate env. impact                   impact           for mining
assessments                           statements        environment impact
assessments
National environmental   Design and          Bank              Sector            Design and implement  Bank
information system     implement national                      environmental    sector EIS and GIS
EIS                                   and geology
information
systems
Decentralization and    Strengthen local     Denmark           Local            Put into place and     Bank
local consultation      consultation process                   consultation     strengthen capacity
to explain                                              for local consultation
environment code                                        on mining projects
Capacity building       Strengthen skills in    Bank           Sector capacity    Strengthen skills in  Bank
MEW, CONAGES,                         building          environment unit in
DGPE                                                    MEM
Environment education   Design and conduct  IUCN,              Artisanal mining   Design and conduct    Bank
national            Bank              environment       environmental, health,
environmental                         education         safety training in
education awareness                                     artisanal mining areas
campaign
National water use      Capacity building    Bank              Mining water     Develop guidelines     Bank
and study on water                    use: sources and  and standards for
management                            discharge         water usage and
discharge by mining
operations
Training                Skills development   Bank              Training in      Train public and       Bank
on national level                     mining specific   private sector in
environment      environment analysis
and management skills
Ik
M:\LK\BURKINA\ANNEXA.DOC
05/22/97 9:15 am



44
ANNEX B
(7 pags)
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
(Inclusive of all Local Duties and Taxes)
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT



Sheet6
4  fev 97    _      _     _    -   -_                          _                              _
rcmounMpcflaIoaSneftllaries                                   Bid Package  Intl Mo-nta -Local Mo-nths -Coat              Year IYr2Yr34                                                                                      " 
L      Raoom Component                                                            Ss           422 -1
PFPvaratlOn ofLol eds          _     _       MEMOGMG          lCB-Cons 1
ApWlcallon Des  Td-             -           MEMODGMG          1CS-Cons 
*SeniDr Resident Mining Attoniey  -        ME  MIGM         lCe-cons  --           1533.70  __ 
-Junior Atorney                            MEMIDGMG         lCe-cons 1                 -        12      38,W                                   X     X -
-Regulatory SpecialS           _          MEM,VGMG          ICB-Conks 1             2    _ _  6        67.500        ______
P   Ip,wen nverfwdVvw                   MEM.DGMG         [CS-Cons 1              0 --         0           0
*Senior SheEt Tenn Attomney       _       MEMJDGMG          lCD-Cons 1              0            0  ___0 __
*Junior Attore       _____        __      MEIfGMG           lCD-Cons 1     ____                 la__ 1  57.16-0 ______
*Regulaor Speclelt    ______               MEMIEOGMG   -   CD-Cons I         __   0              0 ___0_              _
LCunel    ,Aft                ~             MEM42GMG          lCD-Cons I -0 -                     a           0
T a*VinAApkelionof Low                     MEMIOGMG          lCD-Cons I      __    0-- _     _   0 ___0 _ 
Huronin Resource Developmnent Speclaant    MEMiVDGMG        ICS-Cons I  -_      _-2              a     54,750 __x 
*Minin Regulaio Apicton Spec              MEMCVGMG          TCS-Co-ns I_            4            0    1f31,3927 __                                              xx 
-Local Reglaory speciahi                  MEMIGGMG          Ica-Cons I     _ __0                10     76.543                                                                              
MeoilooCqieClN              ___        MELt/DGMG        lC-osa __                     0            0 _ _0__
-Negocletkon SpesaiNi                     MSIGM             CB-Conks 1              2            0     60.200              __x
*Local Neotalon Splhst-                   iMEMO3GMG _    CD-Cons 1               -0 ____0 _ _   0
LOCa Legal Co,etoe to AinisOY   __          MEMOA,(MG_   NCD-Cons 1                  0 _          0     227.93    X     X     X     S     S    x                                                                    
_ _        -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -  _
ralnno i Mineend E4  nviomnt Lmw    M-7EM-MGMQ                C-Cn                   0            0           a
-Guest lecurers                           MEMIDGMG  jj          I z           -     7            0    220,048 
*Local Conoulafto                         MEMA)GMG          NCB-Cons 4              0     ~      j_55.469                   5     51xX 
In-Courtry SentnrmkwCost                 MEMIDGMG          Othier                               O!-oT0  50,0001                                                                                                -
Lega Reference USrary (6$10,0=0yr 4 yrs)    MEM -             CS-Cons 1               0            0     40.0001
EhLngugLampTreining(yseamnSO,0/) MM                           Tain                           'O10000                    _     X                                      - -        __-
iternlational    etai k!r                    MEM              ICS-Cons 2              6            0    167,D000x
Vehlmlde(2 4,o4)                            MEM               ICB-Gonos I             0  ___       0    147,000                X
Cornputemn, soltare (1-0 untsjVtS~ 50  ah     E4lDGos20                                                  0.5 
iTrainingarndStudyVtsts-                     MEMii           -Truei- -                0                  10o- --                                 S           X-                      S--        X __i          
toncrenrnenal nratin Costs                  -MEM              Other                   0  _         0    100,000                      X                         
Page 1



Sheelt
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~2Sp9,Burkina aso: Project Sch dube
_________                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Mining and Envrnmna Manag Moit  j
Eownponent/Specifiesons           B-n-fiiarie                   Sidt Paclkage  Intl MontisLcl MotsCs                 er1- Ya                                                              4Year 4                --Ye
------____                                  __7   __                      101  02    03   04J _01[02    03- C4 f01   02.   3 0                        Q1    02   03   041  01   02   03   024
-MininV Tax Specialist end Mhrnrai EcnI it  MMIG              CECn 4                  1            0 _17,250                   X
-Senior Mining Accountant                  IMEMWDGI           ICE-on 4               -1            0      18.250                X
Financial Ann"____    EMIIDGI                        ICE-o ns 4              -1   _____0         10,250                X
-Local Tax Consultants                      MEM/OGI           IC-onr.        _        0-           4      13.000  _      2      21-                                                       -
PIeparnion ofAchnihskativ InstrctiOns MEM/OGI       lCS-Cons 4     _               ___  0             0
L Mining Tax SpecialIs and Mireral Econoist    MEMitGI        ICE-Cons 4              1            5      24,500                     21
*Senior Mhlhtg Acoountant                   MEMIDGI           ICB-Cons 4              I            0      28,500                      21
Financial__________                         MEM/DGI           ICE-Consl 4      __                         22,500D                                                                       ~        1                     -- 
*Local Tax Consultants                      MEM/DGI           ICE-Cons 4              0                   28.000   _     _      X     S-                                               ___
InfftfonlsbK"MEM/DGI                                ICS-Comt 4              0 --          0          0 
-MiningTa-SopnIan anld Mineral Economis    MM2G              ICE-Cons A              I__   1             24.500                      21- X- 
-FIscal InStUtuions Specialist    __        MM/G              CE-Cons 4 _             1  ___       0 _27,500                          X                                                                 -      -
Financial                       MEliA/OGI         ICB-Cons 4              0  ____   5              0_      _ _
-Loal TaitandlnstftutionalCostutants  _     MEMt/DGI  __ICB-Cons4    ---              S a          5      29002                             _ _            
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    EM/OGI     _      CE---nI4  -            0-o         S0  _ _  _     S
Mrining Tee/nTasg            - -               E/G         _    ICE-Cons 4              5            0           0                                                          _                                               1
-Humnan Ransourc Deveiopnmnnnt Specialist  !MEM,1DGI          C-Cn                    2            0      43.750             __       5     21-
-Local Mine Taxation Cnn  aosMEMWDGI                         ICE-o04             -_  0            20      72,887        __                  2       SX                     X                 21   21x
Mine Acconedatancy Troenn          -       -_MEM/DGI            ICE-ConS4_              0            0           5                                                                                                  -
-_iigTX Specialist anid Mimeral Econostot   IMEMWDGI      C Co4T_                C
-Senior Mining Accountant                   MMOI0    107,108                                                                       -x       x                              21X1
FinanciaMEMAnG"                                  ICE-Cons 4               I__                 22,415                      X      1-     -
-Local Mine Tanution Consuftants            MMGI              ICE-Cost 4                           8     20,220                       X     21_-<
____________________          MEM/OGI          ~~~~~~~ICB-Cons 4        S               _  _ _   0_                                  --
-Mining Tax Specialist and Mionral Economist  iMEM/OGI        ICE-Cn 4                14 
-Senior Mining ACCOUntant                  :MEM/DGl -        ICE-Cost 4               1            0X553.2                                  x~-                                                      -
________Ala_rs                           MWEM/DGI                                                       9374ICCE-Cons 4  ___ 3  a I-----    1        -                   xl                                               x     __ -
-Local Mine Tasalon Consutants             .MMGI __           ICE-Cons 4              0     --s                                                     7                   720 220
VNtWi Salscoofr Tax Trainnkg (ENAREF)        .0                                                      0           0     __                                                                    V-----
*Senior TnFPnfessor                         EllAR-EF          I CB-Coms 5-           0-    17000                                            X
-Vnting Lecturers                           ENAREF            ICE-Cons 5              4            0     13-1 7-43                                      2                      -x                      ,           -----
-Local Tax Specialists and Consuotants    'ENAREF            -NCE-Cons 5               '--        247    037 -743i                                                                                                -
-Professional Seminars                      ENAREF           -Trin                    0            0;    40,000       [                    1                                                                   21x                       2
--Equipeent didoiqonu (ordinaleurs a.do-raisuni  ENARE-F      ICE-Goods 2             0             0    11   0                                          1                                                             --
-Special Studiesand Twinning Fond  -                             ,AE  ri              0            0    120000
-operating costs                         -EIrAREF    -        Other                   o                    00                      F                                                          -            --     ----             
0'     0          ~~~~0
intlAuditktainer                  hiMEM/GI          ICE-Conse 6                                 170602                                                                        1
StudyVisits and Training                     MwiEM/OGI         Train                   0             0,   210,000                     x   7        xx                                               x                         x
Yehicules (1 04)  ~MEMWDGI                          ICB-GoodsI              0             0i78.0002
Computemrwosftwarn                   __       MEMJDGI           ICE-Goods 2             0            0 _108,250,        ._              X                 21       ,               1
InrmtlOetn   ot $000y                        MEMAOGI           Ohr0                                  o    100,000F          _                                                                                      
Page 2



SheetO
_____                  ~~~~~~~~2-Se-8________-                                __-___                              an.Fc: ProetSCdu             __
_____  -           _________    ____ -                   ______         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mining and EnvironetlMng nt Prjwc          - -
Comnponent/Spectficatlons          ____   Beeficiarie-s    Bi  akg    It  mta Lcal Mo-nts Coat -Year Iea                                                         Year 3              - Year 4  -                      5Ya 
_______   ______     ______            ~       i    2   03   04   01    02   03   04   01    0203    04 0102                       3 04       01    02   03   04
__ns   ____n     __l_Component                                                                   43  T,049U118
* nstlutional specialistitesm leader       ME-M/DGMG        ICS-Consl1i                   __           390,958    -                      S     x I S-
-Mining edrrnnstntion specialist           MEMIDGMOG        ICS-Cont; I       --    2     _       0      -54000                                                                               __ __           T7 - 
*Sp  iost in geolal sursy mnanagement    MMGM              iCCos13 -                            0      7.70- X                          xF               -     -
- pciehlh geenenenaaee                    MEMADGMG         iCE-Coon I              3_ __  0             740X 
_________                       M~~~~~~__ EMfDGMG  ICE-Consi              5             0    144992                -     X     x    --x
-Locaiconsatants                ~~~~~~MEMIDGOG    ICE-Cons I        _     0     _    54    195,20 8 X         X                X     x S   S     S     S     X X         S       
Mkrhs TAle a-id Cadentf Administration       MEMIDGMG         ICS-Cons 1              5   ___   0             0
-Sr. morink  tItle spegelist               MEMIOGM.G        ICS-Cons I -            8___         0    228,742                5     X     xXX-                                                                         -    -       -
-Sr. GIS - Database rmanagement specelest    _ ME~MIGMG    -CS-Consl                             0      79.700                      X
-Jr. CedWsre andGIS specialists            MEMWtDGMG        ICSmC-Ct                a   -       0      200,429  __           X     S     S     X     X    S
*nisffonntics techeicians                  MEM/DGMG         ]CS-Cons 1   '          0           23      039837                -         --                                        --
04nk  En4eonwnentaiMnagement                 MEMWCEM        -ICB-Cons 5               0                       0                     S     S      X     X     XL-X                                                  X-
*MhinkVgeinfwntmeal menagement specialist   MEMICEM         ICS-Corns 5            10           25    370.807                                                                     -          
*Mining envirnmental enigineer   -         MEMICEM          ICE-Cons 5    ___  5 ____           i      170,323               X     S     S    S
Natural renouronen manageet  elFt EILMGE                   CS--Cots501                        24    4881,212               X     S    S      Sx xitii 
0-d-nist                                      )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EMBMIE  CE-Cons 5  3   24    1740082                                         x
IMEMWEUMIGEE      C-os50__   24                              83,810  __     _    _               X        S    S 
MEM/UMIGE    CSCoon               2           24    145.082X                                 X                             S     XV                          V
MEMIEUMIGEE    ICS-Cons 5                                    2,03I_   _                                   S                   
*Medical doctor                           'MSUGE            IE-os                                       20021-                          -
-Minirg enAronmental informetlon sstma spec. MEM/BUPMIGES  __CS-Cons 5                          24    145 02        -                    S 
*Ofter short tefns spcialists       -    -MEM/UIE            C-osS---12                                1970_                 _XX                                             ST 
National Ear/ Science k1bnstomhnr S~yntir - SWI  MEM/BUMIGEE   ICS-Cons 0 -                                                                                                                                                         _    00   _  I7 
____- ____t                 __            MEMJBULMIGEB   IICS-ConsS               12           30    41,8                                                             S        I              S    A            S
_Geniogy inforation dae poe-~iss,no specasi ztMEM/BEUMIGEB   tIECBCosii -  - - -2,    1__7    108,384                                        AL_X  S             X LLx                     4
-Other short tleon spectalists             ME/UIE            CSCot3                             1       22,384L             X     S     X      X                       x                       S-
* normaiktchtdniclans          - --MEM/EBUMIGIES -CECns5-                                     48F_167,2241             --   -x S                                  I X      x     x
Ser'iCes dapi(laboatoke, *O de irriean, eic) JMEMUMIGEI  I_CE-os5
Specialist. geophysique   -MEM/BUIMIGEE   ICS-Cons 5                                            0      8.42        I __ 
-  pec.itisteen tra8emen minerals        MEM/UMIGEE - ICB-CoonS5                         3            0~ -871-72.            C               - 
-Egutinnnt       -        --               MEM/EUMIGEB                                                515,000,                             ,                              I 
Page 3



Sheet
_~~~                                                                      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  0      I     
Eum      and Other Costs-0                                                                               
*wfnigo OSeda'rlrrdtdtions     a_MIjGG0                                                     __   0 ___  0  _
T af. stLady vskes. cours, seminrrars      MEMVDGMAG         Train                    0 -           0      900000  _                                                 x  -x                            x   -
OlIt  oquWprent spare parts, rskrtenance    MEMIOGMG          NCB--Goods 1             0 ____0              17,250                      x                                     x
*Corrwutes aNW software                      MEMIDGM           IC-od2                   0             0      60375 _                     X                  X
*Work supl,        ________                  MEM/OGMG          NCB-GOods 1I                                   5,750 
*COOfradOSM                                  MEM/DGMIG         Nce-C0ns 6               0             0       51000X
-Iseriteittal oparahi costs                  ME~M/GMG          Othew                                  0      33.000                      5                        5                         5                        5 
pIkbr IS/ and CadasfW Ask/srt                  MEM/OGMG                                   0             0 _ _   0
, rhko study vtek, course, sorrsrams     MEM/IDGMO         Train                    0 -      ~    0      90.000        __            5            5
-Office equipmentt, spare parts. maintenance  MEM/DGMG         NCIB-Goods 1             a             0      48.000x 
C-WCrrpfr and softwae       ___              MEM/OGMG           CE-God 2    - ~ 0 -                   0    132,250                      5x
MEM/OGMG          NC8-GOOd5 I              0    ____0 __             0
____I_C___                                   MEM/DGMG          NICB-Cons 0                            0      20,000x
* Tehk/er  stud JIM)   ole   ssar             E/E               r                       0    --       0  -  1000                  X      X       
-n Office     St op retn corts  mrtano       MEM/CEMG          OCtGher     10                                23_0 __ 0                                                                                                 T -
*f  Emnne fand softwarem__r__                 MEM/CEM            C-od20  -                             0      1500i                                                                                                           L    Z
Tmwm  Sh    Vist. mm. emiars      EM/CEM           CSGodr1ain               0____0               750,000               5 
____equiment_spa______aintnanc               MEM/JCEM          NCB-Goods It             0 ____0             20,000
C. ompetersand sopertei cssMEM/CEM                             OtherG0 ___2__ 0                              19,5000x
VtkSedornvkOrerraOtaaMEMSCEMGE                                CBo03I                 0    _        0           0
V*hTaM/g std( sisx    oressror)              MEM(CEMGE         Tre-Goos I0 ____0                             750000               5      5           5     X
- Ofito. r eqimn,saepisrrotos                MEM     MICEM    INICB-GoOd 1              0             0      2000 
ICorenpuesand soprftwareL                    MEMrBUMIE        CO-hood 20                      -       0  -  ii 000                                                  
___g____E________aba                          MEM/SUMIGEB   C-od                          0 -__0                   0
TnWWQ SLiy 15, CUr&S Smiam       MEM/BLJMIGIEB   CT-oos                     0             0--  147 5000               5      5  t        x 11   -                                              x                                 __
_____umr_ spm_ ars__ k_ nac                  MEMWBUMIGEB    NCB-GoodlsI                 0             0    400                                                                   
-_ompukig studysI_cue s     sore/oae        s MEMVBUMIGEB   TIau         2              0             0    720000                                                                          - T          x
W_rk_spp__s_                                MEM/UMG E    ;NCO-Goods 1                 0'   ___         A       o
Vshlol&L4!~j)MEM/BULMIGEB    ICB-Goodsl                                     0             0    14,5-                                    --
________                                     MEMIBUtMIGEB  NCB-Conssf                   0             0      250,000                  - S                         x      ,     x 
-Irncremental oparalko coss            --'MEM/BUMIGEB    Othe-r                                              402,00                  X- S                        5                            -                       
AW10nal Earth Schmm tntmoffon System - SNIG$ MEM/BUMIGEDage 



Shteet6
-                        ~~~~~~~~~~2-Sep-OS1                                    --Burkina Faso: Project ScOodule                                                                                                    -
Mminin and Envirnmenital Maa*mf~ojc 
-                                                                 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  t       t    -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
_____________n_                         n__     ie       BdPackage  _.inti Months -Locat Monti Ct             erlYa2                                                     fYear 4                              Jea-i5
00             -   n-----                                                                                                   ------- _ _   -__L ___
EnvironmentalCoomponent                                                  --            27           10 29061-
Cepacffy Budding in Envkonnenal Management   MEW/MEM-           CB-Cons 0                                   __
-Human resource devotopmreen specialist     MEW/MEM _         C-Cons 0                2 _                  400XX
Sp_a__    n_ nirnmntlacoutig                MEI_M_C__3                                                                                xx          x   x        _
-Speclahll npdvate sector IM   ct ~studies  MEWIMEM           ICB-Cons 8              3            8    104,080                 X   _                  __x                                          X
-TralinglIn nvlrnrnemntal management        ME-W/MEM          IC-oso         ___1 ___ 68    241,008  --     X                   X     X     X     X     X      X    S      X     S     X     X    x       X     X     x     x   -x    S
S- Ensr Natonm ntal management               MEWMM             TICBCns_   _            0             0     6500                                ~J                                  i i                 t      2      Y 'I
E Personnerdl ospeWils                      MEW              TrICSns0 -    _    0    100,000                                      4  54
______                            M~~~~~~NE-W/MO     _                          __ -      0     0000_                          [                                                   -                      4
E.MniWng ndentol Enmentl eminar             MEW/MEM           TriCBns -               _ -               V- 0,200                    7~                    -      [                                           '
LoEdcatiConcufamintrs nng          -        MEWME             ICTrains                0            0      53.000                                         x   -  xlxv                                -       
IUCN fleevrnmntaiigMEW IMEM0}   -                                                                                                 t     'ns8-----   - 0
- LStCtrNGcs for exhonphaseMEW/ME                            TriCCns    ,             0            12    40,0001                                                 ,           T     l    V                                            - 
NaloalEninnmW nfnratonMENE                IS-on 60                             0           0                 -x~ 
Cop  erardo law'e                      MEWjpMEMtL oehConeo  -                                  0      2__0,      I 00 
=       aCopolrsaanoegoftare COt GS         MEWIMEM          ICB-Coods 2              0            0s   110,04              _                                              -1Yx  
Envonrroiteraldata sysea msE spcait         MEWME            ICB-Conds a              0             a     26,WOl                                        xT                            x                        xx
G B Aomatcquepolan    seiandsotwn           MEWIMEM          ICB-Conds               0'3           0I   105,000       '     I                                                                                                     x 
Trating mftorltwinned instuionsd compueWs ndE                 lS-Goos 2              0.  -         0'  13.2209 ,Fh5.                                                                                        ---                - 
L_ochal Cnslocmstrants      oiwe           M-EW  IE -6CB-ondsS                    -  0 --          S      0290                            
Vehicles(C0NAGESMEV~ -IM=ow                        CCS-oons I       -     2            0      03Odf            -         ~         -                                       X-
Environmentalop uditi csteilst  -=-          ME                te       -              f            a      50200-                            -x                      -x                         ---             xFx
Loc~lConskant  MEWMEM    -    CB-Cns 84                                   133-0-
--                  0F                                               --
0     0           0~~~~ao 



--    ~~~~p-961  __   ____   _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Burkina Faso:Project Sc adule s
ComponerntSpecilikiions            - -           ne 9cire          idPackage   1-nti  ot!oa   oII'ot                  Y Ye      ar               er2Year 3                                       Year 4Ya
______ ______     ____ ______  _____                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01  02  Q3  04  01  02  03 04- 010 Q304 Q0  02  03  04  0 0203  0
Small Scale Mining Component   _____                                   ___               36 --- 48   -4,-195.4322
Technical SWoISS            __-___MGE_   _CB-_ons                                ___ 
-Senior Small Scale/Artinanal Mining Expert  MEMIBUIMIGEB    ICS-Cons 9                 6     - ~     0    184,742   -      ~      x -x                                        XX                                           -
L- L    aSocilogist                         MEM/BUMIGEB    ICB-Cons 9                  0  _     _   4       11.000          _      X x
-Local Geologists                            MEMWBUMIGEB    ICB-Cons 9                -0             12      32,000 __       X     X -X__                                                  --
-Local Mining Engineer                       MEMWBUMIGEB    CITCBOnn9             -     0             3       9,500X
Local S-mall scal/artlisanal mining specialint_- ~MEM/BUMIGEB  ICR-6Consg       ____       _          4______                           X    ____-.                            _           _            __-
-Gold marketing specialist                   MEMIBUMIGEB    ICB-Coons         __                  2_         3                                                               ___0 _0
= Lca Geologist                             MEIPM              NR-os-                                                                                                                                      
Support to DPPM:Small Scab Mm/   __MEMDIPPM           NC-Cn12                                                                                                  -
-Local Mining Engineer        _              MEMIDPPM          N -Cn8                   0  _          2      34,373                                   X     X                  x
-Procensing Specialist                        MEMDPPM          NCB-Cons 8    __    2          ___14          93.873        _      _            X      x     X                  SLJ
-Mining Eonvronointal Engineer                 EMDPM           ICR-Cons 9            -1    -__       I    598.873                                                                                                       ,  xC)
-mine Safety and Heakh Speciailst            MEMJOPM           1CB--COns9              - 1           10      5987
L- Lc  Coonsftents                           MEMJPPM           NCR-Coon8    ____3   -8-69                                                         - -                   X                           
soral Mfin lnotoi nlssMEWIDPPM                                   ICB-Coons 9              0-                      
-Economist/Financial Analyst                 MEM/DPPM          ICR-Cons 9             3               0      93,    ___
-Sall Scalo/Comminfty Banking Expoe        MEM/DPPM           IC-on                   20                   5400                        _
-Local Consuftants                           ME/PM             NCB-Con 9                0            24      81,305                                                       
tineSScaldeMining Equ,pmntoo MannfactureFOtn(ToeMEM/CBMP         ICR-Cons 9     ____0 ____              0   __ 
-Small Scale Minerml Processing Specialist - MEMWCBMP          ICR-Cons                                                                                ____172_                                                                                - -
-Mining equipmont design spocmaiist          MEMCOP            IR-on
-Local consukants and cantractoms            ME/OP _             C-Cn                                       175         ,      8 8                           X     X           X     S     X      S     S                               x  T-x
Mining Centers and Dissemination              IMEMICBMP           _____                        o___                                                                                                                                          I __    -
-Traimig npecuiahst        _MEM/CO-MP                                                   3                            _  5x                                              _           _580                      i     Y'                 7x 
-Mining Engmneer                           -M -EWICBMP5                                                    2493
-Techtnical specialist                      IMEWICBMP2 5j4 
-Local consutants      Capx E/RP                              i0                                      2    2210-                             A~
En enetiSensHtizonio  Campa             _      MEM/MEW/DPPM  NC-osF                                                                                                                                                  __-
*AIDS specialist (from PPLS project)         MEMI~MEWIOPPM ~NCR-Cons 2                                Il      3,500                                            ]       x --
-Mining hea8th aod safely orxpert            MEMWMEW/DPPM  NCR-Cons2 3                 0           6          0
-Localtrainers                               MEMIMEWIDPPM  NC-Cns                                    60    1450,6                                        I                     X X         XVX           X X~ 
GNO                                         MEM/MEWrtDPPM  NCR-Cons 2                  0            38    20.1                                                                       X                                                     
Study Visits,semninrm, Cumeso                   MEMIDPPM    -Train                                      0      8800F                                                                                                                        
Vehloles 12 4045)                                                      n --MMfPP  -IRGods                     137XF   ~
Smat scald mining equipmnt scquistion         _MEMIDPPM.  --JC-Gonods 03910,                                                                                                                                           x -F
FadBbis rehtabiriat,on                          ____                                                    0    400.00
locremnlardl Operating Costs                   MEMIOPPM -        ohr -0 -      T          0I  ____    0       10.                                           _X5 X
Pae 



Sheet6
_  2-Sep-96                                                                                Bu _-__-  Borkina Fas  Pjt  S   dute
_   -0 _       _ ___-~        -      --                  - 2-Sep 9e-_                                                 Mining and Ennironnnentt  Managl  ment Mroje
Component/Specilications       - ____          eeiIries        Bid Package   It Mots  oal MonthsCt                 Year 1                  YeYear2
>-r....X. ___--- -                                                                                                                        Q3 -  0Q0203040    0  Q2  Q 0 304          023 0401  020304
Project Coordination                                                                                56EM8 _ _ t  = 1  83,632                                                                                                    
SeniorLocalConsuatnts                ___                        NC2Cns3                 0           6S    252,93    X    X       X      5:  X          S     X         X S  S                  X X             _ S-     X                 X
Ju_ni,or L~olCnsuftant 2 -   - -             MEM               NCRw-Cons3              0   --- s           61,6-97   x     -x  _x      x  -X       S     X     X            x     x,          ~x                 _ 
Vehicles (I 4o4)                         =    MEM          _   ICB-Goods 1          _  0             0      68,500         X   -                       [                           X;    I                                       t
Equipment (computers, photocopye              MEM              NCB-Goods 1                           0      80,500 _  L
locmemental Operating Costs (52OO500yr  prs)-  MEM    ___--  Other                      0~x
ns2is!eSr- S ~~~~~~MEM                                                                        vni  =0  2*-   t-_xc
Training. Study rasis   __                     E                 ri                                         0.00 oo             X                                                 S
PPF =-___ ______=  ;                                                          --~t                        _  -4~l- L---^t 1Fo  >---- --    +<-800.000
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                                                          2049,67   - - 
Unattocated                                                 ------                                         049,867 _                                                       - |-                                    __-
GFRAND TOTAL PROJECT                                                               -                  t 23548529 --              ---             t                        ,
Page 7



52
ANNEX C
Page 1 of 2
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORABLE PERFORMANCE
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Component                        Indicator                            Unit                 Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 5
US$              US$    US$    US$    Us$
Regulatory               Sustained                           Exploration                    25-30            25-30            25-30    25-30    25-30
exploration                        expenditure
investment                         (US$ million)
~~~~~~~~~~~....... .... M       ,et"'' ... to...nnes..........   ...........I.......... ... .........I............  ..........I..........  ..........I...........  .........I.........
Declared  industrial               Metric tonnes                      1                1                1               1               1
and artisanal gold
production
..........................I..................  .....................................  ...................... ........................  ................. ...  .....................   ....................
Regulatory               Advance mining                      Number of                                                           2             2-3               5
projects                           feasibility
studies
,....... ................................... ..... ... ..........I...... ...... .. ...................... .. .........I............ ......... .... ................. ... ....................
Mining                             Decrees adopted                                     2                2               3              3
environmental                      on specific
regulations                        regulations
Gold                     Competitive gold                    Number of                          1               2                2               2               2
Marketing                purchasing                          operating private
offices
Land                     Time required for                   Days                             60               60               30              30              30
Management  issuance of mining
title
............. .................................. ....................................... .................... ........................ .................... ....................... ....................
Turnover of                        Percent of total                  10                10              15              20             25
exploration acreage    exploration
permit kms2
...... ...............................  ......   ................... ............  ......... ........... .. .....................   . I.........     ...................I.  ....................
Compliance with                    number of site                    20               25              25               35             50
work committments   inspections
Fiscal                   Increase in mining                  US$ thousand                    500              750              750             750             750
taxes                              equivalent



53
ANNEX C
Page 2 of 2
Component                          Indicator                            Unit                  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Us$               Us$    US$    US$    US$
Mining taxation                     Students trained                                                      15              20               20
training (ENAREF)
Environment   Mining sector                                   Percent of total                                     20               40              70               90
datasets (SNIST)                    surface area
covered by 3
datasets
............. ............................  ........................................  ........................ .......................  .....................  ..................... ......................
Health, safety,                     Number of                           2                 2 ..                             2                2
environmenal                        country-wide
inspections of                      inspections
mining sites.
Capacity building                   State of the                                           I               i               I
Environment
Report
.......................................................................................... .......................... ................... .......... .........
Environmental                      Datasets                                              2                2               3               4
Information System    integrated
0 Environmental                     Number of                                             3                6               6                6
Education Delivery    artisanal mining
communities
visited
Small-Scale    Development of                                 Number of new                                          1               2               2                4
Mining                    small-scale mines                   mines
Economic                   Encouragement of    Number of                                          3                 5                5               7                7
Benefits                  Private Sector                      consultancy
firms
............................................  ..............I..........................  ........................ .......................  ....................   .......I..............  .....................
Job creation in                     Number of                        5000              6000             7000            7000             7000
exploration and                     national
mining-related                      man/months per
activities                          year in private
sector
companies
.................................................  ........................................  ........................ ............   ....................   ............... ......  ......................
Expenditure on                      Total payroll of                  1000              1250            1500            1750             2000
wages by private                     private mining
companies                           companies -
US$ thousand,
equivalent



54
ANNEX D
Page 1 of 2
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
BURKINA FAXO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Consultancy Services
Component                                      Foreign       Local        Total
Legal Reform                                      45          142           187
Mining Taxation                                   44           81           125
Institutional Strengthening                       112         423           535
Environmental Management                           27         150           177
Small-Scale Mining                                 42         480           522
Project Coordination                                0         156           156
Total                                             270        1,432       1,702



55
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 2
Summary of Consultancy Packages
Package            Agency              Components                      P/M*
Internationally Recruited
ICB Cons 1  MEM                 Legal reform, capacity building,       262
instiutional strengthening mine
cadastre
ICB Cons 2  MEM                 Inemational Legal Retainer               8
ICB Cons 3  DGI/MEM/ENAREF Mining Taxation and Fiscal Training         127
ICB Cons 4  DGI/MEM             International Audit Retainer             8
ICB Cons 5  MEM/BUMIGEB    Mine environment management, mine
380
sector environment database, SNIST,
evaluation of support services.
ICB Cons 6  MEW                 Environmental capacity building,       196
state of the environment,
environmental information system,
environmental education
ICB Cons 7  MEM/DPPM            Small-scale mining: studies, support   365
to DPPM, equipment design, mine
training center, mine financial analysis
Nationally Recruited
NCB Cons 1 MEM                  Local legal counsel to MEM              60
NCB Cons 2  MEW                 Contracts, public relations            NA
NCB Cons 3 MEM/DPPM/CBMP Support for DPPM and small-scale              157
mines, education and sensitization
campaign artisanal mines
NCB Cons 4 MEM                  Project coordination                   156
NCB Cons 5 CE/MEM               Contractors and services for           NA
BUMIGEB            environment unit, database, SNIST
NCB Cons 6  MEM                 Contractors for facilities rehabilitation  NA
(*) Includes national and international experts
Ik



56
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURESMENTS
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
in US$ million
IDA FY      Disbursement       Cumulative         Cumulative
by Year         Disbursement       Disbursement
as % of Credit
1998              3.7               4.5 *             21
1999              7.5               12.0              56
2000              4.7               16.7               78
2001              2.7               19.4               90
2002              2.0               21.4              100
* Includes PPF



57
ANNEXE
Page 1 of 1
CONTENTS OF IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I.   Introduction
II.   The Project
-     Project Objectives and Overview
-     Detailed Project Description
-     Cost Estimates, Administration and Execution
III.  Implementation Arrangements
-     Coordination
-     Reporting Requirements
-     Accounts, Audits, Financial Management
-     Supervision Plan and Evaluation
-     Terms of Reference for the Audit
IV.  Financial Estimates
-     Total Project Cost by Component
-     Local and Foreign Costs
-     Costs by Disbursement Category
-     Planning and Execution Schedule
-     Consultant and Equipment Bid Packages
V.  Detailed Terms of Reference for Consultants
-     International
-     National
VI.  Equipment and Materials
VII.  Training Program



58
ANNEX G
Page 1 of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project supervision will include the following:
(a) A Project Launch Workshop would take place as soon as the conditions of
effectiveness are about to be met. It would focus on: (i) accounting
procedures needed for keeping project accounts and for setting up and
controlling the Special Account; (ii) procurement procedures, including the
use of the Bank's standard bidding documents; (iii) disbursement procedures,
including replenishment of the Special Account, Statements of Expenditure
and documentation to be kept and to be forwarded to IDA; (iv) audit
requirements; (v) coordination between recipient agencies, including the
selection of individuals in each agency to serve as a point of contact; and (vi)
progress in the preparation of bidding documents for early procurement
action.
(b) Regular supervision missions will be carried out three times a year during
the life of the project.
(c) Mid-Term Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would take place, not
earlier than than two years, nor later than two and one-half years, after credit
effectiveness. The review will be carried out jointly by MEM and IDA and
would evaluate the results pertaining to: (a) the promulgation of a new mining
code including mining regulations; (b) the operationalization of the
institutional structure described in the letter of sector development policy; (c)
the establishment of a computerized mining title cadastre and land
management system; (d) the establishment and functioning of an
environmental unit within the DGMG; (e) the putting into place of
environmental standards and norms specific to the mining industry; (f)
progress and results of the pilot mining training center; (g) the initiation of a
program of environmental awareness; (h) the performance of consultants
under Government contract; (i) project budget and expenditure performance;
and (j) work program and budgets for the remaining duration of the project.



59
ANNEX G
Page 2 of 2
An Implementation Completion Review (ICR) will be carried out jointly by the
Government and IDA three months before the project closing date to review the
achievements of the project in relation to its objectives. This review would serve as the
basis for the Government's ICR report to be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the completion of the project.
Tentative Project Supervision Schedule
Dates            Activity            Skills Requirements      Staff Weeks
July 1997   Project Launch Workshop   Task Manager                   2
Procurement Specialist          1
Disbursement Specialist         1
Accounting Specialist           1
Oct 1997    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer           2
Feb 1998    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Jun 1998    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer           1
Oct 1998    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Feb 1999    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Jun 1999    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Oct 1999    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Mar 2000   Mid-Term Review           Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer           2
Economist/Financial             2
Analyst
Jul 2000    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Nov 2000   Supervision               Task Manager                    2
Mar 2001    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Jul 2001    Supervision              Task Manger                     2
Nov 2001   Supervision               Task Manager                    2
Mar 2002   Supervision               Task Manger                     2
Jul 2002    Supervision              Task Manager                    2
Sep 2002   Implementation            Task Manager                    2
Completion Review
Environmental Officer           2
Financial Analyst               2



60
ANNEX H
Page 1 of 10
MINISTRY OF ENERGY                          BURKINA FASO
AND MINING
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
STATEMENT OF MINING POLICY
(Translation from the original
version in French)
January 17, 1996



61
Annex H
Page 2 of 10
STATEMENT OF MINING POLICY
January 1996
1.    Since adoption of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1991, Burkina Faso
has been engaged in a program of structural reform based on the promotion of private
initiative as the driving force in its socioeconomic development. This development strategy
was designed to make the private sector a major partner in the country's economic growth,
with a pivotal role being assigned to the mining sector.
2.    Burkina Faso has over 70,000 km2 of volcano-sedimentary Birimian formations
(lower Proterozoic), known for their potential as a source of mineral substances throughout
the subregion (Ghana, C6te d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Guinea, Senegal) and in other parts of the
world (Canada, Australia, etc.). Previous geological and mining exploration carried out in
Burkina Faso has revealed a large number of prospective mineral deposits, including gold,
manganese, zinc, copper, and phosphate.
3.    Originally, the Government decided in favor of direct intervention in development
of this substantial potential. Several state mining companies came into being, however
certain of these subsequently proved unviable. Nevertheless, this provided Burkina Faso
with useful experience in the mining sector, particularly as regards the development of
national expertise.
4.    The economic importance of the mining sector and the need for its harmonious
development are such that all necessary efforts and resources must be deployed to ensure its
continual growth. The Government continues to encourage and support private initiative,
whose presence is key to the sector's development. Exploration is already showing
remarkable progress. Many companies of different origins and sizes hold mining licenses
(prospection permits, operating permits). By 1995, according to the World Bank, mining
investment in Burkina Faso already totaled US$20,000,000. Indicators for the coming
years presage a marked rate of growth, not only in expenditure on exploration but also in
the opening up of new deposits.
5.    New legislative and regulatory provisions have been enacted in support of this
objective. A Ministry of Energy and Mining has just been created to design and propose an
energy and mining development policy and strategy for Burkina Faso. It is therefore clear
that promotion of the mining sector has been one of the Government's main concerns since
1991.
6.    To expedite the sector's development in light of the ongoing evolution of world
economic data, the Government needs to readdress and enhance the effectiveness of its own
role. Preparation of a new mining code covering all of the general and specific legal



62
ANNEX H
Page 3 of 10
provisions (taxation, social laws, the environment, etc.) and definition of the roles of the
State (Central Mining Administration, related agencies) and of the private sector are all
elements requiring particular attention.
7.    This new mining code will also take account of the following factors:
* the specific situation of Burkina Faso, a developing country dependent on the
mining sector to promote its development within a framework of equity and
justice;
* the regional and international context;
* socioeconomic fallout from development of the mining sector;
* development of the provinces;
* the phenomenon of alluvial panning;
3 artisanal mining companies;
- promotion of small-scale mining operations;
 development of national expertise;
 relations between mining license holders and occupants of the land; and
3 environmental concerns.
8.    The purpose of this major adjustment is to ensure organization and administration of
the mining sector in conformity with the Government's political will and along lines
consistent with international best practices.
9.    The following chapters review the basic thrusts of Burkina Faso's new mining
policy. They cover the Mining Code, the institutions, taxes and customs duty, small-scale
mining, the environment, and training.



63
ANNEX H
Page 4 of 10
I - THE MINING CODE
(a)    Burkina Faso's mineral resources are the property of the State, which manages them
on behalf and for the account of the country's population.
(b)    The mining sector is open to free enterprise.
(c)    Any operator wishing to engage in any mining activity on any part of the national
territory must first obtain a mining license from the pertinent authorities.
(d)   The procedures to be followed for the grant of a mining license will be clear, simple
and transparent. All technical and financial conditions being equal, licenses will be issued
on a "first-come, first-served" basis. A holder of a mining license who fails to comply with
the obligations set forth in that license may be required to surrender his rights thereunder.
(e)    Holders of mining licenses will be required to submit and comply with an
environmental protection and management plan.
(f)    Any transaction in connection with a mining license is free of hindrance; such
transactions are submitted for prior authorization by the Minister of Mining and reported to
the tax authorities.
(g)   Mining licenses are assignable and transferable without constraint with a minimum
of formalities and subject to compliance with the relevant obligations.
(h)   The Govermnent reaffirms its entitlement to a free share of not more than 10 percent
in the mining companies.
(i)    The prospecting and working of mineral resources by large, medium-sized or small
companies using either domestic or foreign capital are activities encouraged by the
Government on a non-discriminatory basis.
(j)    The exploration permit confers an exclusive right covering all eligible mineral
substances specified in the application and existing within the area covered by the permit.
(k)   If a workable deposit is discovered, the exploration permit will automatically be
followed up by an exclusive mining license, subject to fulfillment of the relevant
obligations.



64
ANNEX H
Page 5 of 10
(1)    Exploration for and working of mineral deposits are subject to the imposition of
certain levies, such as taxes and royalties. They are also subject to aposteriori oversight of
financial commitments, work plans, and compliance with obligations in the areas of
taxation, security and health, and the environment.
(m)   The Government will encourage the effectiveness of exploration activities by
imposing:
*  required levels of work and minimum expenditures per km 2; and
* progressive surface rents.
(n)   Any operator failing to comply with such obligations will be required to surrender
the area covered by the permit.
(o)   Investment agreements between the State and the investors may be concluded,
provided they supplement existing mining legislation and do not conflict with any of its
provisions.
(p)   The Mining Code will be revised to clarify the powers of the Central
Administration, taking account of the possibility of appeal to the courts by a party deeming
himself injured.
(q)   Disputes between the State and an investor will be submitted to one or more
arbitrators selected by mutual agreement, in the case of a purely technical dispute, and to
other courts of ordinary law or an international arbitral tribunal, in other cases.
(r)    While keeping a balance among the various existing incentives, both in the
investment code and in the present mining code, the legislative revision will take into
consideration the supervisory mechanisms essential to the sector's sustainable development
and the setting up of appropriate institutions.
II - THE INSTITUTIONS
(a)   The State's principal role in the mining sector will be to provide support for mining
investments. To this end, it will:
*  develop a legal, economic, financial and tax framework favorable to mining
investrnents;
*  strengthen institutional/promotion capacity and establish special measures to
that end;
  maintain a climate of investor confidence;



65
ANNEXH
Page 6 of 10
maintain and develop basic infrastructures;
strengthen mining information and data gathering systems;
supervise training activities; and
* promote the development of national expertise.
(b)   At the same time as the Government is making every effort to support domestic
private initiative in the mining field, it reaffirmns the necessity to maintain its participation
in mining operations over the short and medium term.
(c)   Support for mining investments will come from the Ministry in charge of Mining,
whose essential function is to support and promote development of the mining sector in
Burkina Faso with a view to contributing to the country's harmonious economic
development.
(d)   The bodies currently providing institutional support for the mining sector come
under the authority of the Ministry in charge of Mining, and comprise:
A.   The Central Mining Administration
B.   Other agencies:
* The Commission Nationale des Mines (National Mining Commission);
* The Fonds de Developpement Minier (Mining Development Fund)
* The Bureau des Mines et de la G6ologie du Burina Faso (Mining and Geology
Bureau of Burkina Faso);
*  The Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (the National Precious Metals
Exchange).
A.    THE CENTRAL MINING ADMINISTRATION
(a)   This body is responsible for administration of all the provisions of the mining code
and for promotion of the mining sector.
(b)   The Central Mining Administration will be provided with the necessary human,
material and financial resources to fulfill its functions, and will be entitled, whenever it so
deems necessary, to delegate its authority or subcontract its activities.
(c)   The Central Administration will also be responsible for enforcing the provisions of
the mining code, particularly with respect to maintenance of a mines cadastre, and the
recording of mining titles and the rights pertaining thereto.



66
ANNEX H
Page 7 of 10
(d)   In addition to its supervisory and oversight functions, the Central Administration
will seek to develop a policy of openness and assistance vis-a-vis all actors in the mining
industry, focusing in particular on small-scale operators.
(e)   As part of its commitment to promotion of the mining sector, the Central
Administration will ensure the active presence of Burina Faso's mining sector on the
national and international scene. To this end, a consultative framework for all actors in the
mining sector (State and private sector) will be set up under the aegis of the Ministry of
Energy and Mining. The purpose of this consultative framework will be to seek solutions to
the concerns both of the Government and of the mining companies. Through its
participation in international events (conferences, symposia, etc.), Burkina Faso will be able
to maintain its attractiveness within the world mining community.
B.    OTHER AGENCIES
1 .    Commission Nationale des Mines (CNM)
(a)   The CNM is a consultative organ of the Mines Administration.
(b)   Its functions may be summarized as follows:
- analyze the economic and regulatory context within which the mining
sector has to operate; and
* receive and examine applications for approval of mining investments.
(c)   In addition to the Ministry in charge of Mining, the following departments
will be ex-officio members of the CNM: Finance, Transportation, Environment, Industry
and Trade, Health and Employment. Cornmission members are appointed on the basis of
qualifications, for a fixed term with provision for renewal.
2.    Fonds de Developpement Minier (FDM)
(a)   The FDM was established principally to provide financing for:
* activities designed to promote the mining sector;
various programs -- exploration, studies, development, operation --
approved by the relevant departments of the Ministry in charge of
Mining;
* procurement of the necessary equipment for oversight of the mining
companies' prospection activities and operations; and
expenditures incurred in the conduct of such oversight.



67
ANNEXKH
Page 8 of 10
(b)   The Government has emphasized its commitment to the maintenance and
strengthening of this fund as part of its drive to promote the mining sector.
3.    Bureau des Mines et de la Gdologie du Burina Faso (BUMIGEB)
(a)   BUMIGEB is a strategic institution of the State, possessing a certain level of
technical expertise. It performs a public service role, and provides various mining-related
services to private sector partners.
(b)   It will sustain and develop this mandate in the areas of geological and
geophysical surveys, geological, mining and hydrogeological studies and works,
inventorizing of mining potential, inspection of classified industrial establishments, and any
other mining services delegated to it by the Government.
(c)   BUMIGEB will perform its public service missions under a contrat plan
with the Government.
(d)   Within the framework of the missions entrusted to it, BUMIGEB would be
able to develop other activities such as the promotion of substances other than gold,
diversification of the target portfolio, and support for development of small-scale mining
operations.
4.    Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP)
(a)   CBMP was established in 1986, with the following purposes:
*  the purchase and sale of gold and of all other precious substances and
stones, in particular platinum, platinoids and diamonds;
*  participation by all appropriate means in the creation or operation of
mining enterprises; and
*  in general, the carrying on of all kinds of operations directly or indirectly
related to its purposes.
(b)   In the present context of structural reforms, the Governnent wishes to
restate its commitment to elimination of the export monopoly on gold produced in Burkina
Faso.
(c)   Today, over 100,000 persons are involved in artisanal operations, working
under extremely difficult conditions. It is therefore imperative that the Government attempt
to improve their working conditions and to maintain oversight over the workings. The



68
ANNEX H
Page 9 of 10
agency best placed to play a positive role in the supervision of artisanal workings and in
collection of the gold is CBMP. It will therefore be entrusted with developing technical
assistance programs targeting artisanal mining operations.
(d)   CBMP could also develop other activities designed to promote the mining
sector.
III - TAXES AND CUSTOMS DUTIES
(a)   The primary purpose of taxation of mining activities will be to increase budget
resources deriving from the development of the sector's mining potential, and a number of
incentive mechanisms will be proposed to promote mining investment in Burkina Faso,
consistent with international best practices.
(b)   Where customs duties are concerned, an exemption procedure should also be
instituted to facilitate the rapid clearance of goods and equipment intended for the mining
sector.
IV - SMALL-SCALE MINING
(a)   Burkina Faso offers many opportunities for the small-scale operation of mineral
deposits.
(b)   The Government is aware of the socioeconomic impact of this type of mining
activity and views the rational operation of small mines as a development priority.
(c)   The Government will set up the necessary support structures to provide the
appropriate technical and/or financial assistance to private operators.
V - THE ENVIRONMENT
(a)   In the mining sector, one of the most important roles incumbent upon the
Government is to promote environmental protection and management and water source
preservation, with a view to minimizing the risk of major environmental disturbance. To
this end, the Government requires every company wishing to work a deposit to first carry
out an environmental impact assessment.
(b)   The Government will strengthen the departments responsible for environmental
protection and management, establish schedules of conditions specific to the mining sector,
require the submission of environmental restoration and management plans, and ensure that
those plans are implemented by licensees in a manner consistent with their commitments.



69
ANNEX H
Page 10 of 10
VI - TRAINING
(a)   To support development of the mining sector, the Government will oversee the
development of national expertise, and will prepare a vocational training plan for both
public and private sector stakeholders in mining development.
(b)   The Government will support implementation of this policy for developing a
national expertise at both its own and the private sector level.



70
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
MAP OF MINING TITLES IN FORCE
(as of December, 1996)
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT



71                      AnnexI
Page 2 of2
4w                                  0   m~~~~~
Li    
S                                     S            S 
-      -            -            C~~L



72
ANNEX J
Page 1 of 4
CONTRIBUTION OF MINING TO THE ECONOMY
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    Mining, if properly managed, can increase a country's yearly value added, tax
receipts and foreign exchange earnings. Globally, extraction of mineral resources
accounts for 3-5 percent of world GDP, 1/5 of world merchandise trade, and employs
some 25 million persons. Many countries in Africa, Latin America, and Asia derive
substantial portions of their foreign exchange earnings and tax revenues from the export
of mineral products. Moreover, mining operations typically spend 20 - 40 percent of
capital and operating costs on local purchases, employ and train rural based workforces,
and contribute to the transfer of industrial know-how and management expertise.
Governments in Africa have inherited mines established during the colonial period,
which has been a mixed blessing in some countries. On the one hand, these operations,
subsequently nationalized, have provided funds for recurrent government expenditures.
On the other hand, governments have generally not proven adept at stewardship of these
colonial operations and have neglected to invest in new plant, equipment, and delineation
of new resources. Since the mid-1980's, many governments have become aware that the
capital and technology necessary to rehabilitate their mining industries can only come
from the private sector. Experience in Africa as well as other countries (Latin America,
Asia) indicates that competitive regulatory conditions and an adequate earth science
database are critical to attracting and retaining investment. Governments have
accordingly moved in the direction of putting into place enabling environments, including
the establishment of regulatory, fiscal and institutional frameworks, and earth science
databases that are competitive internationally and attractive to private companies.
Increasingly, governments in Africa are putting emphasis on sound environmental
management of mineral resource exploitation through adoption of regulations and
building capacity in supervisory institutions. The Bank as well as other donors are
playing significant roles in this effort. The African continent as a whole has considerable
geological potential. Given the proper enabling environment and an appropriate level of
private sector development, it is reasonable to suppose that the continent could develop a
mining sector commensurate with this potential.
2.    Using reasonable assumptions concerning the likelihood of finding and
developing mines, local Burkina Faso cost conditions, comparators with similar mines in
other West African countries, and international parameters it is possible to construct
scenarios for the contribution of mining to Burkina's economic growth. These scenarios
demonstrate that mining generally makes its greatest contribution to economic



73
ANNEXJ
Page 2 of 4
development through generation of export earnings and tax revenues with subsidiary
spin-off and employment benefits. Basic assumptions and considerations regarding these
benefits is as follows:
*  Export earnings. Virtually the totality of Burkina Faso production of gold,
zinc, and manganese would be exported. The price of these commodities, and
thus the projected export earnings, is set on the world exchanges or is
negotiated with customers based on world market prices.
*  Fiscal revenues. In Burkina Faso, the Mining Investment Act of 1993 (as
amended) and other legislation specifies the following fiscal levies: (a) an ad
valorem royalty of 3 percent on gold and zinc, 5 percent for manganese; (b) a
corporate income tax levied at the rate of 35 percent of profits (45 percent for
the Tambao Mn project); (c) a dividend witholding tax of 12.5 percent (25
percent for the Tambao Mn project); (d) customs, entry duty, statistics and
value added taxes, net of exemptions and reimbursements, of 4 perecent of net
sales revenues; and (e) income taxes and statutory contributions for
employees.
*  Spin-off effects from a mine [principally from local (as opposed to imported)
purchase of goods and services] are difficult to estimate. However, based on
West African experience (Mali's Syama and Sadiola Hill mines)
approximately 25 percent of the total capital and yearly operating costs of the
mine could be spent with locally based suppliers and vendors.
*  Employment generation in mining is not as great as in other industrial or
commercial investments. However, the majority of the jobs created would be
in rural areas and the workforce primarily drawn from adjacent towns and
villages. Wages and social charges paid to, for instance, 200 local workers at
a medium gold sized mine, would be around $4 million per year. In addition
to monetary compensation, the workers and their (extended) families would
typically benefit from a wide variety of social services built and operated at
mine expense including schools, health facilities, housing, and recreational
facilities.



74
ANNEX J
Page 3 of 4
Scenario Specifications
3.    High growth scenario supposes during the next 20 years the discovery,
development, and operation of one medium and one large sized gold mine1, the Perkoa
zinc project, and the Tambao manganese project. Relevant information for the project is
as follows:
* medium sized gold mine, production of 4 tonnes fine gold per year, open pit mine
life of 20 years, capital cost $80 million, international gold price of $350 per ounce,
operating costs of $200 per ounce, amortization of capital assets over 10 years, and
free government equity participation in the dividend streams of 15 percent;
* large sized gold mine, production of 11 tonnes fine gold per year, open pit mine life
of 20 years, capital costs of $210 million, international gold price of $350 per ounce,
operating costs of $200 per ounce, amortization of capital assets over 10 years, and
free government equity participation in the dividend streams of 15 percent;
*   Perkoa zinc are derived from the most recent (March, 1993) pre-feasability study,
production of 155,000 tonnes zinc concentrates/year @ 55 percent Zn, mine life of
12 years, investment costs of $554 million, price of $1,250 tonne zinc metal.
*  Tambao manganese project from the most recent (November, 1992) pre-feasibility
study, production of 140,000 tonnes/year @ 52 percent Mn, investment costs of $20
million, mine life of 10 years, manganese price US$2. 10 metric tonne unit FOB.
4.    Medium growth scenario supposes the development of one medium and one
large-sized gold mine over the next 20 years as specified above, with a combined
production of 15 metric tonnes of gold. Due primarily to transportation and operating
cost problems, the Perkoa and Tambao projects are deleted from this scenario.
5.    Low growth scenario supposes the development only of one medium-sized gold
mine as specified above, producing 4 metric tonnes of gold per year.
*  Table N. l below shows the contributions under the high-medium-low growth
scenarios for the mining operations in their 10th year following first commercial
production.
*  Table N.2 shows the contributions under the high-medium-low growth scenarios for
the mining operations cumulatively over the presumed mine lives.
*  Table N.3 summarizes the contributions for exports, fiscal receipts and local
expenditures for the tenth year of commercial production under the high-medium-low
growth scenarios.
These estimates for gold mines are arrived at based on similar developments in Mali as well as
hypothetical models based on international parameters developed by IENIM.



75
ANNEX J
Page 4 of 4
TABLE M.1
YEARLY CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY
US $ million for the 10th year of commercial production
Specification               High Growth    Medium Growth   Low Growth
Total Export Earnings            246.0            167.7           44.8
Ad Valorem Royalty                5.8              5.0             1.3
Income Tax                       23.8             11.3             2.8
Dividend Witholding Taxes         3.7              2.6             0.6
Govemement Equit Particip.        2.7              2.7             0.7
Net Customs/VAT/Empl.Taxes        9.3              6.7             1.8
Total Fiscal Receipts            45.4             28.3             7.3
Wages Paid - Local Employees     21.0              12.0            4.0
Local Yearly Purchases           32.0             23.3             6.2
TABLE M.2
20 YEAR PROJECT LIFE CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY
(Cumulative US $ million for 20 year project lives)
Specification                High Growth   Medium Growth  Low Growth
Total Export Earnings            4,232            3,353            894
Ad Valorem Royalty                108.6           100.6            26.8
Income Tax                       380.4            282.5            70.2
Dividend Witholding Taxes         77.3             65.6            16.3
Governement Equit Particip.       68.9             68.9            17.0
Net Customs/VAT/Empl. Taxes       163.0           134.1            35.8
Total Fiscal Receipts             798.2           651.7           166.3
Wages Paid - Local Employees     345.5            240.0            80.0
Local Yearly Purchases           559.9            465.7           124.0
Table M.3
SUMMARY YEARLY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
US$ million for the 10th year of commercial production
Scenario               Export Earnings  Fiscal Receipts    Wages/Purchases
High Growth                  245.9             45.4              53.0
(2 gold mines, Perkoa Zn,
Tambao Mn)
Medium Growth                167.7             28.3              33.3
(2 gold mines, 15 tonnes)                               _
Low Growth                    44.7              7.3              10.2
(1 gold mine, 4 tonnes)



76
ANNEXK
Page 1 of 5
MARKET ANALYSIS FOR GOLD, ZINC AND MANGANESE
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    When considering investments in developing countries, mining companies place
emphasis on many factors: quality of the resource base, the regulatory and taxation
environment, political stability, anticipated production costs, and market outlook for the
commodity in question. A fundamental consideration is the cash costs of production.
Companies generally seek a position in the lower quartile of the cost curve for other
producers of the same commodity. In the case of gold, for instance, this would mean a
cash production cost well under $200/ounce. The reasoning is obvious. Prices of most
mineral commodities are set on the international markets, such as the London Metal
Exchange, or, for long term-supply contracts with some commodities, in world-wide
competition with other producers. These prices fluctuate over both short and long terms.
To the extent that a mine is a low-cost producer, it will be better able to weather these
fluctuations and meet the financial expectations of its owners and financiers. This is not
to say that forecasts of long-term price movements of commodities are not important.
While notoriously difficult to predict with accuracy, companies can and do assess these
prospects for those commodities of interest to them.
2.    In Burkina Faso, given the present industry interests, there are three commodities
that merit scrutiny: gold, zinc, and manganese. Market forecasts for these are as follows.
3.    Gold. The outlook for gold price through 2005 is robust. Demand will continue
to exceed supply by a slight margin, achieving rough equilibrium by 2005. The
international gold price will show steady if modest growth, fluctuating in the $400 - 540
per troy ounce range in current dollars. The price in the fourth quarter 1995 was $388
per ounce.
4.    This optimistic outlook for gold is due to several factors. The world largest gold
producer, South Africa, is still the dominant force in the gold market though its share of
world production has decreased from 65 percent of world production in 1970 to 25
percent of production in 1994. The lessened importance of South Africa is due to several
factors. Production costs are rising (an average increase of 7 percent over the past year) as
workers demand and receive increases in wages and benefits, and as the mines reach
deeper and costlier levels to extract the ores. Already cash operating costs at some mines
near or exceed the international price for gold. It is possible that new technologies will
allow the mining of the deep deposits and that reductions in labor costs can be achieved.



77
ANNEX K
Page 2 of 5
5.    But on the basis of present evidence South African will continue its slow decline.
Coupled with the gradual decline in South African production is increased production
since the mid-1980's from other countries, notably the United States (world's second
largest producer), Australia, Canada, and other countries. Production from these
countries, basically using low-cost open pit mining techniques and cyanide leaching
processes, has increased by 18 percent, 23 percent and 7 percent, respectively, since
1983. Overall, world mine production and recycling of scrap gold has increased by 5
percent annually since 1983.
WORLD GOLD PRODUCTION SELECTED COUNTRIES: 1983 - 1994
(Metric Tonnes Fine Gold)
Country Rank           1983        1994      Percent of Total
1994 Production
1. South Africa             680         584           25.7%
2. United States             63         331            14.6%
3. Australia                 31         256            11.3%
4. Russia                   267*         175           7.7%
5. Canada                    73          146           6.4%
6. China                     58          130           5.7%
10. Chile                    24          41            1.8%
11. Ghana                    12          40            1.7%
16. Zimbabwe                 14          19            0.8%
Total World Production      1,446       2,269         100.0%
Source: World Bank Commodity Forecasts, 1994
*Entire Soviet Union
6.    The largest demand for gold is for fabrication of jewlery, scientific and electronic
devices. Total fabrication demand has increased by about 6 percent annually since 1983.
The excess of demand over supply is forecast to continue, although by 2005 an
equilibrium in supply and demand is expected. However, demand for gold is sensitive to
price as well as perceptions of anticipated inflation in developed economies. Reduced
inflationary expectations since 1989 has led to a net divestment of gold held by
governments, central banks, and private parties as investment vehicles. Demand for gold
metal is strongest in the Asian (China, in particular) and Middle Eastern countries where
it has occupied an essential role as store of wealth for centuries. As economic growth in
these countries continues, the outlook is for steady or increased purchases.



78
ANNEX K
Page 3 of 5
WORLD GOLD SUPPLY AND DEMAND: 1990-2005
(Metric Tonnes)
Year          Total Supply           Total Demand             Balance
1990             2,651                   2,571                  197
1991             2,404                   2,571                  -167
1992             2,342                   2,859                 -517
1993             2,518                   2,690                 -173
1994             2,545                   2,697                 -153
1995             2,610                   2,740                 -130
2000             2,992                   3,109                  -117
2005             3,475                   3,471                   4
7.    Since 1985 the price of gold has fluctuated in the $360-400 per ounce range in
current dollars. The average price in 1994 was $384 per ounce; the fourth quarter 1995
average price was $388 per ounce. Actual and projected prices from 1990 through 2005
in current dollars per troy ounce and deflated by the G-7 Consumer Price Index are as
follows.
International Gold Price: Performance and Projections
(US$ per troy ounce fine gold)
Year                  Current US$                 G-7 CPI
1990                      383                       383
1991                      362                       345
1992                      344                       310
1993                      360                       318
1994                      384                       344
1995                      400                       352
1996                      440                       358
2000                      500                       365
2005                      540                       349
Source: World Bank Commodity Forecasts, 1994



79
ANNEX K
Page 4 of 5
8.    Zinc. The medium term outlookfor zinc is cautiously optimistic. Demand due to
the recovery of the industrialized economies continues to exceed supply. Prices should
fluctuate slightly around US$ 1, 000/tonne. Cash zinc prices as at July 1995 on the
London Metal Exchange was $1,027/metric tonne.
9.    Production of zinc metal is mainly from primary souces (mine, concentrates,
smelters), with some additions to supply from secondary sources (recycled scrap,
stockpile sales, etc.). Primary zinc concentrate production from mines declined by 11
percent (1993-1992), though a number of new mines, adding 328,000 tonnes capacity are
due to come on-stream by 1996. Between 1995 and 2000, several new projects could
produce an additional 482,000 tonnes of zinc. Because of this highly competitive
environment, new greenfields projects are unlikely to be considered unless they are in the
lower half or bottom third of the cash production cost curve. Recently, Japan announced
the closure of two zinc smelters which should remove excess smelting capacity from the
market, although toll smelting in the former Soviet Union continues to undercut
international smelting/refining charges. Chinese exports of refined zinc (80,000 tonnes in
1992) have declined due to rapid local economic growth. remained stable. Major
producing countries include Australia, Canada, USA, Peru, Mexico, and Brazil. Total
world refined zinc metal production 1994 was 5.4 million metric tonnes, which is forecast
to increase to 5.6 million and 5.8 million tonnes in 1995 and 1996, respectively.
10.   Almost 50 percent of zinc metal is used for galvanizing steel products. This
market grew by 3.2 percent per year (1987-1992), reflecting the superior anti-corrosive
qualities of zinc galvanization compared to competing products in the automobile
industry. Other uses of zinc include zinc alloys (a replacement for plastics in some
applications), the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. Total world consumption of
refined zinc metal was 5.8 million metric tonnes in 1994. Demand is forecast to grow to
6.1 million and 6.4 million metric tonnes in 1995 and 1996, respectively. The USA,
Japan, and Europe consume two-thirds of world production. The Economic recovery in
these countries, together with strong continued growth in the East Asian markets, will
contribute to long-term demand growth for zinc of 1.5 - 2.0 percent per annum.
11.   As noted above, the exports of zinc from the former Soviet Union depressed the
price of zinc on world markets significantly since 1992. However, higher energy and
transportation costs, as well as technical inefficiencies of the zinc smelters/refiners in the
FSU, have rendered the toll smelting of zinc concentrates barely profitable. Domestic
demand for zinc may also be increasing as the economy bottoms out which reduces
quantities available for export. Therefore, perturbations on the market from this source
are declining. The actual and forecast performance of zinc prices is summarized in the
following table.



80
ANNEXK
Page 5 of 5
International Zinc Price: Performance and Projections
(US$ per metric tonne zinc metal high grade)
Year                  Current US$                 G-7 CPI
1990                     1,513                     1,513
1991                     1,117                     1,063
1992                     1,240                     1,119
1993                      962                       851
1994                     1,030                      885
1995                     1,100                     921
1996                     1,200                     977
2000                     1,550                     1,132
2005                     1,600                     1,033
Source: World Bank Commodity Forecasts, 1994
12.   Manganese is an essential ingredient in making carbon or mild- steel. The
medium-term price outlook will closely parallel the outlookfor world steel which, in turn,
reflects the economic performance in industrialized countries. Pricesfor manganese
should remain around $1.80 per tonne unit, depending on manganese content and
presence of impurities.
13.   South Africa and the former Soviet Union account for over 80 percent of the
world's known resources of manganese ore. However, production of manganese is
distributed among several other countries including Australia, Brazil, China, Gabon,
India, and Mexico. There is no shortage of deposits of manganese. However, many are
located at a distance from tidewater ports, or lack other infrastructure to make
development economic. In addition, existing producers can increase production relatively
easily at marginal cost. Supply of manganese over the next three years is forecast to
remain fundamentally in balance with market requirements, although there may be niche
markets for producers whose manganese products have special chemical or technical
qualities.
14.   Metallurgical manganese, ferromanganese, and silicomanganese are used
principally in the production of carbon or mild steel. For these purposes manganese has
no known substitutes. Other uses are batteries, fertilizers and chemicals. Demand for
metallurgical grades of manganese and manganese alloys will parallel the world steel
industry. Like other mineral commodities, the price of manganese is set on the
international metals exchanges. However, many producers negotiate long-term contracts
with customers, and prices may deviate from the spot price.



81
ANNEX L
Page 1 of 4
ARTISANAL MINING
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    Artisanal mining of the type found in Burkina Faso is prevalent in many
developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. In its traditional form,
artisanal mining is essentially a subsistence activity which requires neither large capital
investment nor sophisticated equipment. It is, thus, ideally suited for local private
sector investment. In addition, artisanal mining is a source of livelihood for millions of
unskilled workers, including a large number of women. However, uncontrolled
artisanal mining has several negative side effects such as unacceptable environmnental
practices, poor social, health and safety conditions, illegal mining and waste of
resources.
2.    Governments in the countries where artisanal mining takes place have struggled
for many years to master the social, environmental, and health problems that it poses.
The results of these efforts to date have been mixed. At a recent (May 1995)
International Roundtable on Artisanal Mining sponsored by the World Bank, the
essential elements of an integrated strategic approach emerged from the sharing of
experiences of delegates from around the world. The conference determined that the
contribution of artisanal mining to economic development is limited by three related
factors: (i) lack of an appropriate legal framework, and inadequate institutions; (ii)
insufficient finance and inappropriate mining techniques; and (iii) poor living, working
and environmental conditions in mining sites. A description of these issues as well as
proposed actions to address them follows.
Baseline Surveys
3.    The first step is a baseline survey to assess: socio-economic significance
(production, exports, employment, women involvement, income); organizational
structures (forms of business organization, family units, artisanal miner's associations);
institutional capacity (timeliness and simplicity of registration process, effectiveness of
mining inspectorates); technical characteristics (mining and processing methods, labor
productivity, equipment used, metal recovery rate); marketing channels (export
statistics, pricing, formal and informal marketing channels); environmental, health and
safety performance (land degradation, accidents and injuries, and health hazards).



82
ANNEX L
Page 2 of 4
Improving the Enabling Enviromanent
4.    Issue: In many artisanal mining sites, miners are transient peasants who come
from far-away villages, regions or countries. They tend to operate in the informal
sector without a legal mining tenement to the land. Sometimes, even when the Mining
Code provides for an artisanal mining tenement, cumbersome licensing procedures and
costly registration pose obstacles to obtaining it. Moreover, the possession of a mining
tenement does not always guarantee security of tenure, and the right to sell or transfer
a property to a third party. Finally, other deficiencies of government policy or
organizaiton are disincentives to the orderly conduct of artisanal mining such as the
lack of adequate institutional capability to administer artisanal mining, non-competitive
pricing and marketing arrangements, high tax rates and above-market currency
exchange rates.
5.    Action: Creation of a proper enabling environment for artisanal mining is
essential. Reforming the Mining Code to provide security of tenure and streamlining
administrative procedures enables the artisanal miner to sell, transfer, or mortgage his
claim. This in turn allows the miner to invest in labor-saving devices and technologies
to increase productivity and recovery of minerals. Liberalisation of marketing
arrangements (i.e. elimination of any state monopoly on the marketing of mineral
product and the authorization of private buying offices) introduces competition among
buyers and sellers and, if properly managed, curtails fraud. Taxes and other fiscal
levies such as royalties, license fees and surface rents, need to be modest, simple to
understand and to apply, and rigourously enforced to deter retention of land for
speculative purposes. Small-scale mining units created within the Ministry of Mines
can be effective to review and approve license applications, monitor compliance with
regulations, and provide training and guidance to miners through field offices
established in mining districts.
Alleviating Technical and Financial Constraints
6.    Issue: Most artisanal miners are better at finding deposits than at developing
them. Because they lack the technical and financial resources needed to develop their
deposits, they become trapped in low productivity which adversely affects their ability
to invest in equipment and tools. As a result of low metal recovery and output,
artisanal mining is self-limiting and unsustainable. Moreover, the use of crude
methods compels miners to concentrate their activities on the richest and most
accessible parts of deposits. This, combined with the natural resistance of miners to
adopt new techniques, results in high-grading and resource waste.



83
ANNEX L
Page 3 of 4
7.    Action: There is a close relationship between technical, legal and financial
issues. Removing legal and financial constraints can improve the miners' ability to
acquire appropriate technology and equipment, thus increasing production capacity,
output, and metal recoveries. Mine regulations which establish clear legal tenements
for artisanal miners can encourage the sale or transfer of artisanal discoveries to those
who have the resources and skills to develop them. This should eventually lead to the
creation of a local market for small mineral properties through which artisans could
capitalize on their comparative advantage of finding mineral deposits. This, in turn,
requires that the "rules of the game" ensure the orderly functioning of the market. It
also requires that local financial institutions have the capacity to mobilize domestic
savings and appraise viable investment projects.
8.    The best way to entice local entrepreneurs and local banks to consider investing
in small-scale mining is to demonstrate that the reward/risk profile is attractive.
Reducing the risks and enhancing the profitability of artisanal mining can be achieved
in principle with better knowledge of the geology of deposits and the use of appropriate
technologies and equipment to increase productivity. However, finding the appropriate
delivery mechanism for the delivery of these types of "technical extension services"
has proved a vexing problem in most countries. Some government support for
"training centers" and "pilot plants" may be necessary. However, the evidence
suggests that long-term success is enhanced by increasing the ownership of the miners
themselves in such efforts by having them pay reasonable charges for services
rendered, and encouraging the local private sector to supply tools, equipment and
training advice.
Improving the Enviromnental, Living and Working Conditions of Artisanal
Miners
9.    Issu: In most cases, artisanal mining sites lack basic social infrastructure and
have severe environmental, health and safety problems. Miners leave behind substantial
environmental damage as they move on in their search of a bonanza. In abandoned
artisanal mining sites, land use has been systematically altered, and the natural features
of the area have been replaced with unstable piles of waste, abandoned excavations,
and vast stretches of barren land. Spillage or leakage of solvents, reagents, and cyanide
compounds are major sources of water pollution. Health risks arise from poor
sanitation, lack of ventilation and dust control, and contamination of water in mining
sites by fecal matter, silt, mercury and organic materials.



84
ANNEX L
Page 4 of 4
10.   Action: The enviromnental, health and safety conditions of artisanal mining can
be improved by setting realistically acceptable standards, strengthening the miner's
ability to operate in a safe and environmentally sound manner, and effective monitoring
of operations. Establishing a baseline of environmental information is the first step.
Environmental education can take place through extension services operated by field
offices of the environmental unit in the Ministry of Mines or an NGO or other
community based organization. Social conditions in mining camps can be improved by
encouraging miners to set up an authority structure, and to establish a basic governance
infrastructure (district authorities, police, health officials, security guards). Funds
could be raised by using a portion of mining royalties, levying local taxes and
mandating contributions from all stakeholder groups (claim holders, miners, equipment
suppliers, financiers and buyers, traders, and vendors). To the extent possible, the
camp should be incorporated into other villages to benefit from any public
infrastructure programs (water, electricity, roads) planned in the area.
ACTORS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Actors                              Responsibility
Governments               - improve the enabling environment
- commit to macroeconomic and sectoral reform
- facilitate registration and mine licensing procedures
- provide extension services and training
- establish environmental objectives and standards
- monitor compliance with environmental, safety, health
NGOs, Community and       - organize and train miners
Small-Scale Miners'       - disseminate safe practices
Associations              - motivate and organize artisanal miners
- set up rural credit schemes
- initiate environmental management programs
Donor Organizations       - support for baseline studies
- disseminate information on best practices
- finance policy reforms
- fund the cost of technology transfer
- strengthen micro-finance institutions
- support NGOs and miners' associations
International Mining      - build constructive relationship with the local
Companies                 community
- concentrate on hard rock mining
- service the needs of the local community
- demonstrate basic environmental and safety procedures
- direct purchase of output from artisanal miners
- support of government and NGO initiatives



85
ANNEX M
Page 1 of 6
REVIEW OF LEGISLATIVE CONSTRAINTS IN THE MINING SECTOR
BURKINA FASO
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    There are two main pieces of legislation affecting the mining sector in Burkina
Faso. They are the Mining Law (Code Minier) and the Mining Investment Act of 1993 as
amended. The following paragraphs outline other deficiencies in the Mining Law in
Burkina Faso.
* Structural Deficiencies. In most countries, mining legislation is a distinct and
separate legal instrument. Separating mining legislation from the RAAF will be a
necessary first step to legal reform within the sector. A second problem is that the
Mining Law actually contains provisions that would normally be contained in mining
regulations. During the reform of the mining legislation, the two distinct legal
instruments - mining law and mining regulations - should be prepared. The current
legislation applies to hydrocarbons as well as to solid minerals. Most modem mining
codes exclude hydrocarbons. The duration of the mining license, valid for only four
years (renewable at the discretion of the Government), is not sufficiently long to
provide security of tenure for international financing of mining projects. Instead, there
should be a single mining license, valid for 25-40 years. In some countries, the
legislation provides even greater security of tenure. In Latin America (Chile and Peru,
for instance) a mining title is valid idefinitely as long as fee and work requirements are
fulfilled. Also, the distinction between industrial, semi-industrial, and artisanal
mining tenements is without practical effect; only artisanal mining should be subject
to slightly different exploitation tenement rights. Mining titles are valid only for the
substances specified. A better approach would be to issue the title for any and all
concessible substances to avoid overlapping of permits for different substances. The
legislation does not provide adequate mechanisms to resolve disputes between surface
and sub-surface rights. In practice, these conflicts must be resolved by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines but no specific guidelines, appeal procedures, or enforcement
mechanisms are spelled out.



86
ANNEX M
Page 2 of 6
* Excessive discretionary power. The mining legislation allows too much
discretionary authority on the part of the Government to administer the mine permit
system. For instance, the exploration permit holder who discovers a deposit must
present "proof' to the Ministry that it is exploitable. In practice, such proof could be
subject to considerable interpretation and the title holder, after having invested large
sums in risky exploration, could be held hostage to ministerial authority. In most
countries, the right of exploration title holders to an mining license in the event of a
discovery is automatic and unequivocal, provided that the applicant submits and has
approved an environment impact statement and mining plan. Procedures and reasons
for cancellation of permits should be clearly spelled out in the law or regulations, and
appeal procedures should be specified. The law stipulates that the Minister must
"approve" of any surrender of exploration acreage by the title holder. This is without
practical effect since the Government could not force a title holder to explore on land
it does not wish to work. Renewal of permits should be automatic and not subject to
ministerial discretion, provided that the title holder has honored his obligations and
paid stipulated fees. The right to transfer exploration and mining licenses should be
simple and straight forward. To the extent that the Minister has the right to approve
such transfers, such approval should be automatic provided that there is no prejudice
to the interests of the state. Finally, in the existing legislation, government and state
owned entities have certain "pre-emptive" rights to mining titles. Government entities
should not hold mining titles at all, except for purposes of general investigation in the
earth sciences.
3 "Ex-ante" Versus "Ex-post" Controls. Governments are understandably concerned
that mining titles will be granted to small companies and speculators without the
financial or technical resources to effectively work the ground. However, the controls
in the present legislation are unworkable in practice. Applicants are required to
present financial, technical, and moral guarantees with mining title applications,
however, the Government has no means to verify this information even if it is
presented. Rather than attempting to screen applications and applicants "ex ante", the
Government should emphasize controls "ex-post", i.e., that is strictly enforce
compliance by the title holder with the work obligations and expenditure minimums
upon which the license was issued. Methods to accomplish this such as periodic
inspections, the requirement to relinquish a portion of exploration acreage, and
escalating surface rents, are provided for in the legislation but are not rigorously
enforced. Also, most modern mining codes provide for exploration permits to be
issued on a "first-come, first-served basis", rather than allowing the government to
arbitrarily select applicants in the event of competing applications.



87
ANNEX M
Page 3 of 6
Mandatory Government Participation. The law requires government participation
in mining ventures. In practice, investment agreements signed by the government with
some companies specify that between 10 percent and 35 percent of the equity of the
company formed to exploit the deposit is to be granted to the Government. The equity
is by virtue of (i) the granting of the mining title and (ii) the previous exploration
deemed to have been carried out at state expense in the title area. A portion of the
equity is usually free of financial obligation ("carried interest") and a portion requires
the Government to support the financial burdens of the project ("working interest").
Studies by the World Bank as well as other institutions have called into question the
utility of government participation, even a minority one, in mining projects. Such
participation may not result in the anticipated financial gains, especially not when the
state has a working interest. The Government equity participation also confuses the
constitutional government role as custodian of the nation's mineral resources with its
role as shareholder in a commercial enterprise; the Government cannot be both judge
and jury.
* Lack of Dispositions Pertaining to Artisanal Mining. There is a vacuum in the
mining legislation concerning artisanal mining. Arrete no.
93/01 I/MICM/MDEM/DGEM attempts to deal with this issue but in fact only touches
upon some of the conditions of artisanal mining. A fundamental prerequisite for
assistance to artisanal mining is to provide for secure title for the miner. Present
practice is for the artisanal miner to have only a limited right of occupancy for one
year. The uncertainty surrounding the security of title constrains investment by the
artisan in new techniques or equipment. The artisanal mining title should also be
freely transferable. This would then help to establish a market value for mining
permits and encourage more effective working of the land.
* Lack of Standards and Processing Delays. Mandatory submission of applications
for exploration licenses to the National Mining Commission has led to delays. These
applications would be better handled directly by a special unit within the Ministry. In
any event, it is essential that clear criteria, standards and procedures, uniformly
applied, be used to administer the legislation and to process mining title applications.
The lack of guidance relative to procedures and the limited practical experience of
Government officials in land management, slows down the process of title issuance.
In general, much of the education effort over the years has gone to technical
disciplines: mine engineering, geology, and geo-sciences. Comparatively little
educational effort has been devoted to the legal, fiscal, or administrative skills
necessary to efficiently administer legislation. Burkina Faso lacks a mining tradition
and this skills base may take some years to develop. However, the process can be
accelerated through extensive training in the deficient disciplines, and enhanced
exposure to land management and mine legislation practices in countries outside of
Burkina Faso.



88
ANNEX M
Page 4 of 6
2.   Inadequacies in Auxiliary Legislation. Existing commercial codes are based on
antiquated French models and do not provide for the types of corporate organization
forms (joint ventures, etc.) that are internationally recognized in the mining industry.
Because of potential significant tax consequences in their home countries, this issue is an
important one for the sophisticated mining houses from North America, South Africa,
and Europe. Not only is the law inadequate, but there are few persons, either in the
public or private sector, who are experienced and conversant with corporate law. The
codes on labor, occupational health and safety, union collective bargaining agreements,
and other legal and quasi-legal documents must be studied to ascertain any collateral
effects on the mining legislation.
Taxation and Mine Investment Code
3.    The fiscal framework pertaining to mining investments in Burkina Faso is
confused and antiquated. It has been identified as a serious impediment to investment,
not only in the mining sector but other sectors as well. The fundamental deficiencies in
the general fiscal regime concern excessively high rates of taxation of profits (45 percent
corporate income tax, 25 percent dividend withholding tax), insufficiencies in
depreciation schedules and depletion allowances, and the use of "forfeit" or lump sum
payment methods of taxation. Investors have complained vigorously about the
cumulative effects of many of these small "forfeit" contributions and taxes which
significantly raise the costs of doing business in Burkina. The initial approach was to
negotiate individual investment contracts with each investor, and stipulate in such
contracts the tax regime pertaining to the investment. This proved difficult to
accomplish in practice, and allowed an element of discriminatory rather than uniform
treatment of potential investors. Given the pressing need to provide internationally
competitive conditions for mining investment, the Government passed a Mining
Investments Act in 1993. This act was amended in April 1995 to tighten certain fiscal
dispositions, reflecting comments which had been offered to the Government by the Bank
as well as other donors.'
4.    The Mining Investment Act, as amended, provides a number of guarantees and
fiscal advantages in line with international standards for mining investments. The
guarantees include the rights to manage operations, freedom of choice in personnel and
The relevant legislation is:
-     Law No. 014/93/ADP of 19 May 1993 on the Mining Investment Act.
-     Decree No. 93-186/PRES/ of 16 June 1993 promulgating the Mining Investment Act.
-     Decree No. 95-207/PRES/ of 26 April 1995 promulgating modifications to the Mining
Investment Act.



89
ANNEX M
Page S of 6
procurement matters, international arbitration (ICSID), access to raw materials, and the
right to transfer (subject to exchange regulations) profits, dividends and capital outside of
the country. Fiscal advantages provided for in the initial investment code include:
*  duty free or temporary admission of equipment, material, oil and lubricants during the
period of exploration, and construction of the mine, and for the first three years of
commercial production;
*  exemption during the first seven years of production of the minimum lump sum tax;
*  income tax at the rate of 35 perceny instead of the statutory 45 percent;
*  dividend withholding tax at the rate of 12.5% instead of the statutory 25 percent;
*  exemption from registration and stamp duties and taxes; and
*  exemption from the value added tax (TVA) on exported products.
5.    Specific taxes apply to mining operations and are stipulated primarily in Decree
No. 93-253/PRES/PM/MICM/MDEM of 3 August 1993 relative to fees and payments for
mining titles. For instance, the fees charged for the issuance of a mining title vary
between $100-$ 1,000. These are modest in comparison with rates charged
internationally. In addition to the issuance fees, surface rents per square kilometer of the
permit area are assessed. These rates vary depending on the year of validity of the permit
($1.00 to $3.00 per km2) and are also low by international standards. Overseas investors
would be able and willing to pay much more for exploration titles. However, local
smaller investors may be constrained if fees are raised to international levels. A royalty
based on the ad valorem value of the mineral is levied. The rates vary according to the
mineral commodity: gold - 3 percent, manganese - 5 percent, diamonds - 7 percent. The
rate on gold, for instance, is at the upper limit of international acceptability. The concept
of "net smelter return", that is the full market value of the product less intermediary
charges such as transport, refining/assaying, insurance, sales commissions, etc. should be
applied, but the authorities have no experience in calculating it.
6.    The Mining Investment Act, as amended, brings investment conditions in the
country, by and large, in line with international best practice. However, there are
problems with the effective implementation of this Act. For instance, in spite of the
exemptions provided for in the Mine Investment Act, customs and excise taxes are still
assessed on necessary imports for some projects. Fees and excise contributions are often
arbitrarily assessed on operations as, for example, road taxes and unit charges on the
transportation of goods, which have no basis in international practice. Other seemingly
minor contributions such as the ONAC and CBC, (contributions at the rates of 0.25



90
ANNEX M
Page 6 of 6
percent and 0.50 percent, respectively, on the value of imports and exports) which were
supposed to have been eliminated under World Bank agreements, re-appear in the
government budget under a new label, the "taxe speciale d'intervention."
7.    Finally, the "tax statistique" which previously was levied at the rate of 4 percent
on the export value of products has been repealed as from January, 1994 (for exports
only), removing a very serious impediment to mining investment.
8.    There appears to be little coordination or communication between the Ministry in
charge of mines and the Directorates of Taxation and Customs regarding the effective
application of the legislation. The procedures and paper work required to benefit from
the allowed exemptions are burdensome and time consuming. For instance, customs
regulations require that companies importing equipment deposit, with a local bank, cash
guarantees in the amount of the duties payable, thus effectively negating the intent of the
Mine Investment Act to allow such goods duty free entry. Government personnel
responsible for taxes and customs lack experience and training with international methods
of calculation, assessment, collection, and auditing of fiscal obligations. In order for the
mining industry to make the contribution to tax revenues expected of it, the institutional
and human capacities of the tax administration need to be strengthened.
Ik
M:\LK\BURKINA\ANNEXM.DOC
03/28/97 4:49 PM



91
ANNEX N
Page 1 of 5
THE BURKINA FASO MINING SECTOR
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Declared exports of gold represent, after cotton, the largest foreign exchange
earner for Burkina. Official gold exports were about 1 ton in 1996, valued at $13.0
million, using current world market prices. In addition, undeclared exports from artisanal
production are believed to be substantial, estimated at 2-3 tonnes per annum, worth
approximately $24-36 million. The smuggled gold transits neighboring countries,
particularly Mali, Togo, and C6te d'Ivoire. As a result of the Government monopoly on
gold exports, the artisans receive only 55 percent of the fair market value of the gold
produced. As a condition of negotiations the monopoly, on gold exports has been
eliminated. The role of the state buying organization, CBMP, is being restructured and
private gold buying offices will be authorized.
TABLE 2.B: Evolution of Burkina Faso Gold Production
1986- 1994
Kilograms Fine Gold (declared)
Industrial and
Year       Semi Industrial   Artisanal    Total
1986           1,193           246       2,159
1987           3,181           699       3,880
1988           2,558           805       3.363
1989            965           1,255      2,220
1990           1,229          2,295      3,524
1991            956           1,502      2,458
1992            853           1,365      2,218
1993            689           1,268      1,957
1994            523            906       1,429
1995            607            945       1,556
1996            294            769       1,063
Source: CBMP
Poura Gold Mine
0.1   The only industrial scale gold mine in Burkina Faso is at Poura, 200 km from
Ouagadougou. Traces of artisanal mining at the site and within the concession area, date
back over one century. Industrial mining commenced originally in 1939 and was
continued on and off until 1966. The mine was then closed but re-opened in 1984 with
funding from the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD). The mine is owned and
operated by a state-owned company, SOREMIB. After initially producing close to three



92
ANNEX N
Page 2 of 5
tonnes of gold per year, production has continually declined and the operation has been in
serious financial distress since the early 1990s. At the current level of production, the
operation has difficulty meeting direct cash operating costs and has no surplus to
purchase spare parts, replacement equipment, or consumables. Moreover, important
exploration work to identify and delineate new mineral reserves has been neglected. This
means that the mining method is "hand to mouth" and that advanced mine planning (and
hence ability to raise finance on the basis of proven reserves) is constrained. High-energy
costs add to the company's troubles. SOREMIB initially incurred over 18 billion CFA
francs ($72 million) in debt for the development of the Poura gold mine, which have
since been assumed by the Government. Further debts of 9 billion CFA francs were
assumed by the Government in May 1993 as part of an effort to attract an international
mining company. In 1994, the Government decided to privatize the Poura mine and to
seek an international company to take over operations. Investigations are currently
underway by International Gold Resources (USA) to define ore reserves in the
underground mine and the surrounding surface areas. Current plans are to invest $20
million, of which $6 million will come from the private partners and $14 million from the
Government via the mining development and stabilization fund (Sysmin) of the European
Commission, to re-habilitate the mine and prove up additional ore reserves. Because of
the involvement of other donors, the proposed Bank project does not intend to be directly
involved in the privatization of the Poura gold mine.
Tambao Manganese Project
0.2   The Tambao manganese deposit is located in the Oudalan district, approximately
380 kms north east of Ouagadougou. Reserves have been estimated at over 19 million
tonnes at an average ore grade of 52.8 percent Mn. The grades and characteristics of the
ore are excellent by international standards, although the reserves are modest in size.
Furthermore, industrial development and operation of the deposit is hampered by lack of
infrastructure, principally long and costly transportation routes to seaports. The shares of
Compagnie Miniere de Tambao (COMITAM) are owned 65 percent by Interstar Mining
Group Inc. (Canada) and 35 by the Government through the National Office of the
Tambao Project. A pilot truck and shovel exploitation of the deposit started in 1993. The
objective is to produce enough bulk tonnage to deliver to niche markets in Europe and the
Far East. During the 1993-94 period, the company produced 28,340 tonnes of ore and is
projected to increase this to around 85,000 in 1995-96. Full commercial development of
this deposit will depend on penetrating niche markets and, more importantly, finding an
efficient and inexpensive means of transporting the manganese ores to port. The
privatization and rehabilitation of the railway to Abidjan may be a start in resolving this
transport problem, though a spur line will have to be extended to the mine site.



93
ANNEX N
Page 3 of 5
Perkoa Zinc Project
0.3   Massive sulfide deposits containing excellent grades of zinc were discovered at
Perkoa in 1982. The deposit, located 135 km west of Ouagadougou, is one of the first
deposits of this type to be identified in the Birrimean belts of West Africa. Reserves are
estimated at 5.6 million tonnes of ore at a grade of 18.2 percent Zn. The World Bank
funded the Perkoa Mining Exploration and Technical Assistance Project in 1984-1991 for
$7.4 million to assist in the delineation of the Perkoa orebody, to find a reputable foreign
mining company, and to negotiate an investment agreement. Subsequently, Perkoa
Minerals S.A. was formed, a joint venture in which Boliden (Sweden) owns 65 percent
and the Government 35 percent. Exploration has proven good reserves, and the next
phase of the project will be to test the orebody through underground development work.
Preliminary indications are for a yearly production of 170,000 to 200,000 tonnes of zinc
concentrates at an average metal content of 55 percent Zn. However, the expense of this
development work is substantial, and the company has delayed taking a final decision due
to turbulence in the world zinc markets, the financial condition of Boliden, and
continuing uncertainties regarding rail transportation to the coast.
Small Scale and Artisanal Mining
0.4  In addition to the current exploration activity by major mining companies, good
potential exists for small-scale, locally-owned mining operations. A distinction should be
made between small-scale and artisanal mining. While definitions vary, an arbitrary
benchmark of output from a small-scale gold mine would be 300 kilograms of gold per
year, worth approximately $3.6 million. In many countries, for instance in Latin America
and Zimbabwe, small-scale miners account for a significant degree of mineral production.
In Burkina Faso, at present, only the CEMOB operation could be considered a small-
scale mine. Small-scale miners use small motorized equipment (pumps, compressors,
hoists, etc.) and other small power tools to extract and process mineral ores. Use of this
equipment not only increases throughput and economies of scale, but also allows the
miner to reach depths required to mine hard-rock vein or reef mineralization in addition
to the alluvial surface deposits. However, use of such equipment requires at least
rudimentary scientific, technical, and mechanical skills. Some of the deposits found by
prospectors to date would seem to lack sufficient reserves to justify large-scale industrial
mining. These deposits would be ideally suited to small-scale mining by local
companies.
0.5   The letter of mining sector development policy places emphasis on the
development of small-scale mining which is better adapted to the technical specifics of
the deposits likely to be found. Technical and scientific skills necessary for small-scale
mining, though limited, are either available locally or could be recruited internationally.
Development of small-scale mining will require significant reforms in the Government's
approach. A fundamental requirement is to provide for security of tenure through a legal



94
ANNEX N
Page 4 of 5
right or mining title. Lacking a secure title, the small-scale miner is hesitant to invest in
small scale-mining equipment, water wells, and other techniques to improve efficiency in
operations. Removal of the Government buying monopoly exercised through CBMP will
allow the small-scale miner, as well as the artisan, to realize the fair market value for the
gold extracted. Local private capital markets need to be analyzed and strengthened,
particularly in respect of financial analysis and evaluation of small-scale mining projects,
in order to help local entrepreneurs mobilize finance. Finally, technical extension
services could be provided by the Government and private entrepreneurs to support
small-scale mining.
0.6   Artisanal mining, on the other hand, does not generally make use of power
equipment and tools. Artisans use very rudimentary tools to dig pits, sometimes many
meters deep, to expose the mineral bearing layers of subsoil. Ore is hauled to the surface
where it is pounded into a powder, and washed and panned using simple bowls, basins
and other home-made sluices. Women play a special role in mining activities, picking
the flakes of gold from the concentrate or pounding the hard rocks into fine powder to
better extract the gold. It is estimated that these artisans recover only 40 percent of the
gold in the ore; one-half gram fine gold per day per miner may be a reasonable guess. At
international market prices, this would be equal to $6.00; however, the price realized by
the miner would be adjusted downwards depending on the purity (carats) and type
(powder, flakes, etc.) of the gold. Once the gold is extracted, it is sold directly or through
intermediaries to the Government-owned gold export buying office, CBMP.
0.7   It is estimated that between 50,000-100,000 persons derive a meagre livelihood
from artisanal mining at some 200 mining sites, predominantly in the north of the
country. Artisanal mining in Burkina, while it has been practiced for centuries,
experienced a phenomenal growth in the mid-seventies because the Sahelian droughts
decimated agricultural lands and livestock. Exploiting the near surface (easy-to-mine)
alluvial gold deposits offered a means of survival to thousands of peasant farmers. In
many instances, the allure of quick riches in the mines has caused farmers to move out
of farming altogether. Burkinabe and other nationals, mainly young itinerant men,
migrate from mining camp to mining camp. Villagers also mine part-time, especially
during the dry season when agricultural activities are at a minimum. However,
seasonal mining is not as prevalent in Burkina Faso as it is in other West African
countries.
0.8   Artisanal mining in Burkina Faso, as well as in most other countries, has
substantial negative impacts on the people and areas in which it is practiced. Artisanal
miners work and live in appalling conditions. No safety equipment is used; cave-ins and
rock falls have killed many. Lack of sanitation and dust control, contamination of water
by silt, chemicals, and organic materials, and poor hygiene in the temporary settlements
are significant dangers to health. The wind stirs up dusts which carry heavy metals,
residual chemicals, and other noxious elements to contaminate wide areas. Anarchic
mining destroys forests and grazing lands, further complicating retention of water and



95
ANNEX N
Page 5 of 5
vegetation in arid and semi-arid areas. The itinerant and temporary nature of the camps,
where many men live without families, encourages drug and alcohol abuse, and high
incidence of sexually-transmitted diseases, including AIDS.
0.9    Artisanal mining is the result of rural poverty. Experience in many other
countries would indicate that resolving the problems associated with it is not simply a
matter of improving the technical proficiency of the artisans but rather using an integrated
approach to address the socio-economic, health, safety and environrnental dimensions.
Government programs to provide technical extension services may be marginally useful
but the scientific and technical skills of the miners limit their capacity to absorb modern
small-scale mining technologies. Moreover, artisanal camps and mining sites appear to
be organized in a manner appropriate to the nature of the alluvial deposits and the limited
economies of scale the working groups are able to derive. In Burkina Faso, previous
Government attempts to organize artisanal mining sites, and to provide technical
assistance through different official entities, have not been effective. Recognizing this,
the Government has adopted a policy of putting emphasis on the development of small-
scale mining while, at the same time, attempting to improve the living and working
conditions in artisanal mining camps. In addition to the support for small-scale mining,
the proposed project will significantly assist in this effort through an in-depth socio-
economic study of artisanal mining, and a sensitization campaign on environmental,
health and safety dangers in the camps. In this respect, considerable scope exists for
cooperative efforts with the Bank and other donor funded projects, specifically the
Populations and Aids Control Project, as well as Danish support for village level
environmental sensitization.
TABLE 2.C: Comparative Indicators of Gold Mining
Burkina Faso and Other Countries
Country            Gold Production     Export Value    Est. No. Artisans    Birrimean
(kilograms, declared)  US$ million                   Surface Area
(kms2)
Burkina Faso (1995)    1,500                18.6        50,000 - 100,000    70,000
Ghana (1993)       40,677                  486.5       100,000            75,000
Cote d'lvoire (1993)    1,400               16.8        20,000 - 40,000    102,000
Mali                7,000                   84.0        50,000 - 100,000    43,500
Quebec (Canada)    42,000                  497         N.A.               30,800
Ik
M:\LK\BURKINA\ANNEXN.DOC
04/30/97 12:37 PM






MAP SECTION






4'                                             2                                              0-
MAURITANIA
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                 M A LI                                        A 4
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE D'ETAT                                                                            /                                          -,F.                                K
RIVERS                                                                                               OUDALAN                                GUINRA i ,u-4v       C       RENIN 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                   G (
LIMITES DES PROVINCES                                                                                       0                                           COTE    SGHANAO    1
_. - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   --         |0DM                                                                       LIBERIA.        RE
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
-14~~~~~                                                        ~     ~~     ~ ~~                    ~~~~ ,w/   /       0D;O ~                14-            ,.                    ,,e
50        100         150        200            ,             LOROUM                                --          SENO                           ATLANTIC OCEAN
KILOMETERS / KILOMETRES              ,       ._YATENGA_!___.,_,____2
YATENGA                                                                         .                            2
A.                           - . Ouahigouya           BAM
r  *   L  Kongoussi         >                         YAGHA
C                 j      SOUROU               Ot,              0       SANMATENGA r,
C                   '         lTougon      1.                                            2       G                           -                         N  I G  E R
0                                   o~~~~~  Koyo  I      GNAGNA                   -
M    A    L  I                  KOSSI                                  PASSORE .  Yk-'O                                                                      ;
J    Nouno
0                NAYALA                                  RLTENG.l                                        KOMONDJARI
12-      15j -  deougou- R-o -,-          pOUAGADMZ                               Uio U r,                                 '
BANWA              MOUHOUN           SANGUIE   BOULKIEMUtE      KADROG                                                                        tAt,t
I  .1           \ GANZOURGOU, tKu-el               G OU R MA                    TA P OA       \ \
2-                   _._ ...... Ae;                                                                                           ^ . Kombissiri  0 o  
-# BAZEGA                   -                       FadoaN'Gourma                     Diapaga           12
LES SALE                              f'Oc 
J"Bt -  ,. Manga    Tenkodogoo
) KENEDOUGOU                                                 -*              ZI R                0DN,   -  BOOULGOUD
HO, ._             TUY                                                         - '  P.                 KOULPELOGO        KOMPIENGA
|             ~~HOUET,                              '                                            S
Bobo-                                  SISSItI                  NAHOURI p
rf                                                           2       r       odar        O ODioulsso o  0-Ao  0 _
0~~~~~~~~~IB 
\ - s ~~~~~~~~~%Diebovgou, 
Bonforo           *' BUOURIBA
LERABA                                             A                                                                                                                    B  E  N    I N
COMOE                    PON oGaoua (
c,  G                                                                                                                                      'N<      
10     t                 3_  ~^_)NOU                                                                                                                        ThisstopNmanwBproduced by the
',g'r        """      -j *                                                                                                        TM,ap Design Unit of The W\l-d ,an
*~~~~~~N.  /                                                                    , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The b-udro    col-r, de-ointio-
' -this mp do not imply, on the pat of
-   The Wold Dook Gro u any ATdgnt O
>                                                                                                                                            g.l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.t- f.,,y f-,,t.ry,.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   n h eglsatsofoi trior,o
'.11  GHANA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- an-ndors--ot or accptanc 0f
COTE    D'IVOIRE                                                          2TOGO                                                                                suh ho-d.rie-
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2                  0                                                21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.









IMAGING
Report No.:        16165   BUR
Type:     SAR



