Page  1
April 27, 2000 
H.E. Tertius Zongo
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
Re:
Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental Management 
Project
(Interim Fund Credit No. N029 BUR) Amendment to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(New Category (Works)/Reallocation/Project Account)
We refer to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement (the “Agreement”), as 
amended, between Burkina Faso and the International Development Association as 
Administrator  of the interim trust fund established with funds contributed by certain 
members of the International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 
184 of the Board of Governors of the International Development Association (the 
“Association”), dated July 28, 1997, and to the letter dated November 2, 1999 from His 
Excellency the Minister of Energy and Mining to you, in which he requested to 
(i) establish a new disbursement category for “Works”; and (ii) reflect that the 
Government’s counterpart contribution be deposited in the Project Account annually, as 
opposed to semiannually.
We are pleased to confirm, therefore, our consent to amend the Agreement as 
follows (with the changes indicated in bold): 
1.
Section 2.02. (a) is amended as follows:
“(a)
The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund  Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.”
2.
Section 3.02 (b) is amended as follows:
“(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of 
125,000,000 CFAF 
(one hundred twenty-five million CFAF); and (ii) thereafter, 
deposit annually at least the 
amount referred to under the preceding subparagraph 
or such amount as needed for the 
carrying out of the Project and previously 
agreed to by the Administrator; and”.
3.
Section 3.03 is amended as follows:
“Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.”
4.
Schedule 1 to the Agreement is deleted and replaced by the Schedule annexed 
hereto as Annex A.
5.
Schedule 3 to the Agreement is deleted and replaced by the Schedule annexed 
hereto as Annex B.
6.
Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 is amended as follows:
“(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) 
and (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.”
Page  2
All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in force.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and 
dating the confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to 
us, while keeping the original for your records.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation of this 
letter.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Country Director for Burkina Faso 
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: ____________________
ANNEX A
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Category
Amount of Interim Fund Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in
% of Expenditures
   SDR Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a)
for Parts B (1) (d)    900,000
100% of foreign
and (e) and D (3) 
expenditures and
and D (5) of the 
80% of local
Project
expenditures
(b)
Other
1,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ Services
8,700,000
100%
(3)
Training
   800,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(4)
Refunding of Project 
1,050,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) 
Agreement
of this 
(5)
Unallocated
   150,000
100% of foreign 
Page  3
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
TOTAL
14,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures.”
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)
payments made, or to be made, in respect of expenditures under Category 
(1) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until: (i) the Borrower 
has enacted a Mining Code, acceptable to the Administrator, and such Code has entered 
into force in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) the Borrower has furnished to the 
Administrator the studies referred to in Parts B.1 (d) and D.2 of the Project; and 
(iii) the Borrower and the Administrator have agreed upon the recommendations of said 
studies or the amendments to be made thereto, as the case may be.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts 
for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (ii) services of: 
(A) consulting firms for contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (B) 
individual consultants for contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iii) works  
under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
ANNEX B
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
Page  4
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preshipment Price Inspection
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third party 
inspection firm.
(c)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost $250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand 
dollars) equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,200,000 (one million two hundred thousand dollars) equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 (twenty-five thousand dollars) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 (two hundred 
and fifty thousand dollars) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 (two hundred fifty thousand) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Subject to the eligibility restriction set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, 
Page  5
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 (one hundred thousand) equivalent each, or 
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 (fifty thousand) equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank 
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) 
single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, 
as reasonably determined by the Administrator, (iv) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 (one hundred 
thousand) equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants 
raising the contract value to $50,000 (fifty thousand) equivalent or above.
Section III:
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
