                                       Burkina Faso
      Mining Sector Capacity Building andEnvironmental ManagementProject
                                    Credit No. 029-BUR
      Proposed Reallocationof Funds and Amendment of the CreditAgreement

                                         Summary


 1.     This memorandum seeks the Executive Directors' approval for reallocation of
funds for the Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental Management Project,
which would change the Development Credit Agreement. A credit for the Project, of
SDR14.8 million, was approved on June 30, 1997 and became effective on April 28,
 1998. The original closing date, December 31,2002 has been extendedto June 30,2004.

2.      The Project's overall objectives and scoperemain intact. The main reason for the
reallocation of hnds is to increase the "consultants" category to provide additional
services for environmental management and to extend consultancy services to five
additional mining sites to improve conditions of 20,000 artisanal miners and their
families.


Project ObjectivesandDescription

3.      The objectives of the Project are to: i) establish an enabling environment to both
promote private investment in mining and to ensure real and sustainable contribution to
economic growth; (ii) strengthen public and private sector capacity to effectively
administer regulations and to monitor sector developments; (iii) establish capacity in the
country for environmental management; (iv) to stimulate private sector response to the
growing need for a variety of mining and environment related technical goods and
services; and (v) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to facilitatethe development
of small scale mines and to improve the social, health and environmental conditions of
artisanalminers.

4.     The project has four main components: i) regulatory and fiscal framework and
training; ii) institutional strengthening and resources management; iii) environmental
management;and iv) small scale and artisanal mining.

       B. Background andRationale for Restructuringthe Project

5.     Background. The credit was approved on June 30, 1997 in the amount of 14.8
million SDR. The credit became effective on April 28, 1998. Of the original amount, as
of May 11, 2003, approximately 10.5 million SDR or 71% has been disbursed. The
undisbursed amount is 4.29 million SDR. The original closing date of the Mining Sector
CapacityBuilding Project (31 December 2002) has been extended to 30 June 2004. The
closing date was extended to allow the project to: 1) scale-up the excellent results
achieved to improve the living and working conditions in three artisanal mining sites by

                                              -2-

 expanding the technical assistance to five additional sites; 2) reinforce the training and
 capacity building for the earth science and environmental database management system;
 and 3) to reinforce the institutional strengthening and training in the public institutions.
 The reallocation would not be detrimental to the execution of the project since the work
 initially programmed has been completed in all categories. However, the re-allocation
 will allow the project to capitalize and deepen the good results achieved so far and to
 enhancethe sustainabilityof the project's development objectives.

 6.      Prouosed Reallocation.        The reallocation would primarily increase the
 "consultants" category of the credit agreement by using funds from the `2mallocated"
 category (1.25 million SDR), and funds saved in the categories "equipment" (1.50
million SDR) and "training" (0.5 million SDR). In respect of the equipment category,
cost savings have been achieved since, as per the credit agreement,the feasibility studies
for equipping a pilot mine and metallurgicaltesting facility were not deemed sufficiently
positive to warrant acquisition of the equipment for either unit. In respect of the
"training" category, savings have been achieved by maximizing in-countrytraining rather
than external training. The "works" category would also be slightly increased. The
amounts in the other categories remain substantially unchanged. Further details on the
proposed reallocation are contained in the attachment to this memo.

7.       Rationale for re-allocating the Credit funds : Reallocation of the funds will allow
the project to enhance the achievements in two of its principal development objectives:
improving the living and working conditions of small scale and artisanal mining and
building capacity to improve management of the environment.               The project has
successfully completed installing equipment and training at three artisanal mining sites
which have significantly improved living and working conditions. The reallocation of
fkds will allow consultancy services to be acquired to work on five additional sites to
improve the conditions of an estimated 20,000 artisanalminers and their families. Good
progress has also been achieved to design and install an integrated database management
system for earth science and environmentalinformation. The reallocation would provide
additional consultancyservices and time to reinforce the training and capacity of persons
who will be using the system. Another principal development objective of the project -
improvingthe enabling environment to attract and retain formal mining investment has  -
been substantially completed, notably through improvements in the legal and regulatory
framework. The re-allocation of funds will, however, pennit acquisition of consultancy
services to reinforce and deepen government oversight institutions and the capacity
within them. This has become all the more necessary since with the recent up-hun in the
world market conditions investors are showing renewed interest in Afiica mining in
general and BurkinaFaso in particular.

                                   -3-




      Category         Original    Original    Proposed     Difference
                       Credit        Credit    Reallocation
                       Amount      Amount
                                 (as amended)
Goods
 a) for parts B(l)(d)    900,000      900,000       780,000    -120,000
and (e); D(3) and
D(5) of the Project
b) Other                1,700,000    1,700,000      320,000  -1,380,000


