Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N029 BUR
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental Management Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds contributed 
by certain members of International Development Association pursuant 
to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
Dated July 28, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N029 BUR 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1997 between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) the Interim Fund, consisting of the funds contributed by certain 
members of the Association, has been established pursuant to the provisions of the 
Interim Fund Resolution with the Association acting as Administrator thereof;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Administrator has received a letter from the Borrower's Minister of 
Geology and Mines, dated January 24, 1996, submitting the Borrower’s Déclaration de 
Politique Minière dated January 17, 1996 and describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to reform its mining sector (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the terms "Development Credit Agreement," "Credit" and "Credit Account," 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement," "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account," 
respectively;
(c)
a new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries”;
(d)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the currency of any 
country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories;  or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge 
of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations";
(f)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity; and
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days; or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit; or (c) at any time the Administrator determines, 
with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, 
that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; or (d) at 
any time, the Administrator determines that 
the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit is inconsistent 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund 
Credit 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Interim 
Fund Credit; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall 
Page  3
remain unwithdrawn 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Artisan Miner" means a miner exploiting mineral resources as defined 
under Exploitation Artisanale in the draft mining code approved by the Council of 
Ministers of the Borrower on December 18, 1996, and “Artisan Mining” means the 
activity carried out by such Artisan Miner;
(b)
"BUMIGEB" means Bureau des mines et de la géologie du Burkina, the 
Borrower’s Bureau of Mines and Geology, established pursuant to Decree No. 
78-165/PRES/MCDIM of May 17, 1978, as modified by Kiti No. AN VII-0181/FP/PRECO/SEM of 
January 25, 1990; 
(c)
"CBMP" means Comptoir Burkinabé des métaux précieux, the Borrower’s 
Precious Metals Board, established pursuant to Kiti No. 86-190/CNR/PRES/PRECO of May 
21, 1986; 
(d)
"CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means Franc de la communauté francophone Africaine, 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(e)
"CNM" means Commission nationale des mines, the Borrower’s National 
Commission of Mines, created in accordance with Art. 475 through 477 of Kiti No. AN 
VIII-0328 TER/FP/PLAN-COOP of June 4, 1991, relative to the rural and land-tenure 
reorganization of the Borrower’s territory, modified by Decree No. 
93-252/PRES/PM/MFP/MICM/MDEM of August 3, 1993;
(f)
"CONAGESE" means Conseil national pour la géstion de l’environnement, the 
Borrower’s National Council for Environmental Management, established pursuant to 
Section 2.2 (articles 11 and 12) of Decree No. 95-342/PRES/PM/MEE of September 19, 
1995; 
(g)
"DGMG" means Direction générale des mines et de la géologie, the General 
Directorate of Mines and Geology in MEM; 
(h)
"Environment Code" means the Borrower’s law No. 092/94 of January 19, 
1994; 
(i)
"MEE’s General Directorates" mean MEE’s three General Directorates of eau 
et forêts (water and forests), préservation de l’environnement (environmental 
preservation) and hydraulique (hydraulics); 
(j)
"MEE" means Ministère chargé de l’environnement et de l’eau,  the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for Environment and Water; 
(k)
"MEF" means Ministère chargé de l’économie et des finances, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for Economy and Finance; 
(l)
"MEM" means Ministère chargé de l’énergie et des mines, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for Energy and Mines; 
(m)
"Mining Legislation" means the Borrower’s mining legislation, contained, 
inter alia, in articles 448 through 546, inclusive, of Kiti No. An VIII 328 
TER/FP/PLAN-COOP of June 4, 1991, as amended by Décret No. 93 (252/PRES/PM/MICM/MDEM) 
of August 31, 1993; Décret No. 014/93 ADP of May 19, 1993, portant Codes des 
Investissements Miniers, as amended by Loi No. 06/95/ADP of April 26, 1995; Décret No. 
96-231/PRES/PM/MEM portant réglementation de la commercialisation de l’or; Arrêté No. 
93/011/MICM/MDEM/DGEM of 24 August 1993, portant fixation des conditions 
d’exploitation artisanale de substance de mines; once entered into force, the Code 
referred to in paragraph (3) (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  4
(n)
"NEAP" means the Borrower’s National Environmental Action Plan of 
September 1991, as amended to date; 
(o)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the implementation manual referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, setting forth, inter alia, Project 
monitoring and performance indicators, the initial two-year procurement plan for the 
Project, sample bidding and contract documents, other relevant arrangements and 
procedures for carrying out the Project and a Project financial management manual, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Administrator, and 
such term includes any Schedules and Attachments to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the cumulative Project preparation 
advances granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of 
letters, dated February 6, 1995, countersigned February 28, 1995; and October 24, 
1995, countersigned January 23, 1996; respectively, between the Borrower and the 
Administrator;
(r)
"Small-Scale Miner" means a person in charge of an enterprise as defined 
under Exploitation Minière à Petite Echelle in the draft mining code approved by the 
Council of Ministers of the Borrower on December 18, 1996;
(s)
“Small-Scale Mining" means the activity carried out by such person, and 
“Small-Scale Mine” means the object of said activity; 
(t)
"SNIST" means Système national d’information sur des sciences de la 
terre, BUMIGEB’s National Earth Science Information System; and 
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Page  5
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007 and ending June 
15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the Schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account 
in CFAF, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Administrator, and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Administrator;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of 125,000,000 
CFAF (one hundred twenty-five million CFAF); and (ii) thereafter, deposit semiannually 
at least the amount referred to under the preceding subparagraph or such amount as 
needed for the carrying out of the Project and previously agreed to by the 
Administrator; and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account, in accordance with 
paragraph (b) above, shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s contribution 
for expenditures under the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Administrator, 
not earlier than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date and not later than 
thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, or at such other date as the Borrower and 
the Administrator shall agree upon, a review (the midterm review) of the progress made 
in carrying out the Project.  The review shall, among other things, assess: (i) 
progress made in carrying out the various parts of the Project, including compliance 
with financial, accounting, procurement, disbursement, audit and other covenants 
relating to the Project, assessed against Project monitoring indicators set forth in 
the supplemental letter of even date herewith; and (ii) coordination of 
Project-related activities between BUMIGEB, CBMP, CNM and MEE.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator, for its review and comments, and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, a report on the progress and status of the 
Project, covering the points to be reviewed.
(c)
Following such review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted 
in the implementation of the Project or to implement such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan, designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
Page  7
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to ensure that:
(a)
no mining title under the Mining Legislation shall be granted to any 
Government entity or agency, or any enterprise or company owned or controlled by the 
Borrower; and
(b)
all potential mining activity not covered by the stipulations of 
subparagraph (a) of this Section is subject to prior authorization by MEM.
ARTICLE V 
Page  8
Remedy of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has:
(a)
opened the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed a Chef de Projet with qualifications and experience acceptable 
to the Administrator, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement;
(c)
appointed a Project Accountant, with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Administrator, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and installed an automated accounting system for the 
Project, acceptable to the Administrator;
(d)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(e)
appointed a monitoring committee to supervise Project implementation 
according to a regulation acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 6.02.  The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
BP 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Page  9
Telex:
5555
SEGEGOV
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA) or
Washington, DC
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Gaëtan Ouédraogo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of Interim Fund
   Credit Allocated
     (Expressed in
% of Expenditures
Category
    SDR Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) for Parts B(1)
  900,000
100% of foreign
(d) and (e) and
expenditures and
D(3) and D(5) of 
80% of local
the Project
expenditures
(b) Other
1,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
Page  10
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
8,700,000
100%
Services
(3)
Training
1,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4)
Refunding of Project
  600,000
Amount due pursuant 
to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
1,400,000
TOTAL
      14,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures.”
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)
payments made, or to be made, in respect of expenditures under Category 
(1) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until: (i) the Borrower 
has enacted a Mining Code, acceptable to the Administrator, and such Code has entered 
into force in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) the Borrower has furnished to the 
Administrator the studies referred to in Parts B.1 (d) and D.2 of the Project; and 
(iii) the Borrower and the Administrator have agreed upon the recommendations of said 
studies or the amendments to be made thereto, as the case may be.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts 
for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; and (ii) services 
of: (A) consulting firms for contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (B) 
individual consultants for contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) the promotion 
of private investment in mining while ensuring sustainable benefits for the Borrower’s 
economy; (b) the strengthening of administrative capacity to regulate and supervise 
mining activities, in accordance with sound environmental practices; and (c) the 
promotion of Small-Scale Mining and improvement of the working conditions for Artisan 
Miners.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
Regulatory and Fiscal Framework and Training
1.
Regulations Pertaining to Mining Legislation, Taxation and the Environment
Preparation and adoption of regulations, standards and manuals of procedures 
pertaining to, inter alia, the health, safety and environmental aspects of activities 
under the Mining Legislation and to the taxation of mining activities.
2.
Legal Training and Enhancement of Negotiating Skills through:
(a)
provision of training to MEM’s staff and selected participants from the 
private sector, through special courses at local and foreign institutions in the areas 
of: (i) administration of Mining Legislation, (ii) preservation of the environment 
pursuant to the Environment Code, (iii) negotiations with private investors in the 
mining sector; and (iv) applied mining taxation; and
(b)
provision of technical advisory services to assist in: (i) negotiations 
with private investors in the mining sector or, alternatively, providing legal 
services for the Borrower in said negotiations; and (ii) the carrying out of financial 
and technical audits.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening and Resource Management
1.
Institutional Strengthening through:
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in defining the role, 
function and mandate of BUMIGEB, CBMP, CNM and the various directorates of MEE, and in 
implementing work plans and monitoring performance, through the preparation of: (i) 
manuals of operation, (ii) internal procedures, (iii) work procedures, (iv) plans 
relative to staffing needs, and (v) job descriptions;
(b)
provision of training to selected MEM staff to strengthen their capacity 
for monitoring safety, health and environmental conditions at mining sites, including 
Small-Scale Mining and Artisan Mining sites;
(c)
carrying out of a study to: (i) assess mining-related power, water and 
transport needs, and (ii) propose measures to control mining and industrial toxic 
waste pollution and damage within the territory of the Borrower;
(d)
carrying out of a feasibility study for the establishment of a pilot 
mineral treatment test unit at BUMIGEB intended to promote and diversify the 
utilization of other minerals than gold; and
(e)
establishment of said pilot test unit referred to under subparagraph (d) 
of this paragraph 1.
2.
Mining Cadastre and Mining Title Management
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to MEM for the preparation of: 
(i) manuals for internal procedures and operational directives relating to mining 
titles and title management; and (ii) a computerized mining title cadastre to identify 
existing titles, potential areas for exploration and to monitor the obligations of 
title holders;
(b)
acquisition of data processing equipment and software required for said 
cadastre referred to under subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 2; and
(c)
provision of training in cadastre administration to selected staff in 
MEM.
3.
Mining and Environmental Information Database
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to establish a database in 
BUMIGEB for maintenance of general baseline data, information and statistics on all 
environmental aspects related to, or in and around, mining areas in the Borrower’s 
territory;
Page  12
(b)
integration of the database referred to under subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3 with the national environmental information system pertaining to the 
mining sector installed at MEE;
(c)
carrying out of an environmental assessment of the mining sector; and
(d)
establishment of a mining and environmental management plan in accordance 
with the NEAP.
4.
National Earth Science Information System
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to enable BUMIGEB to develop 
data banks and to store, coordinate, retrieve and disseminate geological information 
to the general public, through the establishment of SNIST and a system to analyze and 
produce thematic sets of information based on, inter alia, satellite imagery and other 
geo-scientific techniques;
(b)
acquisition of equipment and software to support the activities set forth 
in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 4; and
(c)
establishment in BUMIGEB of a drill-core storage, a library, a maps 
library and a mining museum.
Part C:
Environmental Management
1.
Capacity Building:
(a)
Strengthening of CONAGESE and MEE’s General Directorates to implement the 
NEAP through the provision of training to: (i) build capacity for review and 
formulation of environmental policies, norms, standards and guidelines; 
(ii) strengthen linkages and coordination with other sectoral agencies; (iii) prepare 
the Borrower’s annual state of the environment report; and (iv) compile an inventory 
and evaluation of ongoing projects and programs in the territory of the Borrower, 
categorized by potential environmental impact;
(b)
provision of technical advisory services to MEE’s General Directorates to 
undertake technical studies pertaining to, inter alia: (i) economic valuation of 
natural resources and biological diversity; (ii) hydrology; and (iii) the development 
of a water usage-program in selected areas within the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
provision of training to the staff of the environmental protection unit 
within DGMG to enable it to: (i) formulate procedures and guidelines for the issuance 
of mining titles; and (ii) establish and implement a comprehensive monitoring program 
to assess the effects of mining operations on the environment; and
(d)
provision of training to selected staff of MEE and MEM in the areas of: 
(i) environmental sciences, including environmental accounting and impact assessments; 
(ii) reviewing and screening of policies and programs for possible environmental 
impact; and (iii) formulation of environmental regulations and standards.
2.
Establishment of a National Environmental Information System
(a)
Establishment in CONAGESE of a national environment information system, 
comprising environmental information held by other institutions and agencies of the 
Borrower, making the databases of such system compatible with each other, and the 
information contained therein accessible to interested parties;
(b)
provision of training to create capacity within CONAGESE to operate and 
maintain such information system as referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 2 and process information and data contained in, or to be used for, such 
system; and
(c)
acquisition of equipment to support the activities set forth in this 
paragraph.
3.
Establishment of an Environmental Education, Information and Communications 
Program
Page  13
Provision of technical advisory services and training to CONAGESE, to enable it 
to:
(a)
integrate environmental education into the primary and secondary school 
programs and into adult literacy programs; and
(b)
establish an environmental awareness program through representative 
groups of the population residing in potential mining areas and furnish the 
appropriate materials to said groups.
PART D:
Small-Scale and Artisan Mining
1.
Carrying out of studies of Small-Scale and Artisan Mining including technical, 
socio-economic and environmental aspects to determine delivery mechanisms for 
extension services.
2.
Carrying out of a feasibility study for the establishment of a pilot Small-Scale 
Mining center for mineral processing and training of Small-Scale Miners.
3.
Establishment, by CBMP, of the pilot center referred to under paragraph 2 
heretofore.
4.
Carrying out of studies to assess existing credit facilities for Small-Scale 
Mining.
5.
Acquisition and testing of Small-Scale and Artisan Mining material and equipment 
and its promotion.
6.
Implementation of awareness programs for Small-Scale and Artisan Miners on 
topics such as, inter alia, environmentally safe mining techniques, treatment of toxic 
substances and health issues.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preshipment Price Inspection
Page  14
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third party 
inspection firm.
(c)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand dollars) 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
(one million two hundred thousand dollars) equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 (twenty-five thousand dollars) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 (two hundred 
and fifty thousand dollars) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 (two hundred fifty thousand) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Subject to the eligibility restriction set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 (one hundred thousand) equivalent each, or 
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 (fifty thousand) equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank 
Page  15
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) 
single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, 
as reasonably determined by the Administrator, (iv) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 (one hundred 
thousand) equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 (fifty thousand) 
equivalent or above.
Section III:
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; 
consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders 
offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for 
such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and shall not amend 
or waive any provision thereof without the prior approval of the Administrator.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project:
(a)
a Project supervisor, and a Project chief in MEM, the latter with 
experience, qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b)
the monitoring committee referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, under the chairmanship of a representative of MEM and comprising 
representatives of MEE, MEF and other ministries as called upon from time to time, in 
accordance with their respective relevance to Project implementation; and
(c)
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Administrator quarterly progress reports, in such scope 
and detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, the first such report to be 
furnished to the Administrator not later than three months after the Effective Date;
(b)
review, every six months, beginning nine months after the Effective Date, 
applications for training under Part A.2 (a); Part B.1 (b) and 2 (c); and Part C.1 
(a), (c), (d) and 3 of the Project, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and submit its recommendations for training for the Administrator’s 
approval;
(c)
undertake, jointly with the Administrator, before the end of the first 
quarter of each calendar year, annual reviews of the progress made in Project 
implementation, such review to examine the proposed work program for the following 
year, the budget allocated to said program and the implementation performance during 
the preceding year, having regard to the Project performance indicators referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)
apply, in relation to the review referred to under the preceding 
subparagraph (c), the procedures specified in Article 3.04 (b) of this Agreement 
relative to the midterm review;
Page  16
(e)
establish, according to recommendations, acceptable to the Administrator, 
of feasibility studies previously furnished to the Administrator, the pilot unit 
referred to in subparagraph (e) of paragraph 1 of Part B of the Project, and the pilot 
center referred to in paragraph 3 of Part D of the Project; and
(f)
implement the work program for the following year as approved after the 
review referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than two years after the Effective Date, implement the actions, 
provide training and carry out the studies, as the case may be, referred to under 
Parts A, B.1, 2 and C.3 of the Project;
(b)
not later than three years after the Effective Date, implement the 
national environmental information system referred to in Part C.2 of the Project; and
(c)
not later than four years after the Effective Date, implement the 
national system of earth science information referred to in Part B.4 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of 250,000,000 CFAF (two 
hundred and fifty million CFAF) to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount of 125,000,000 CFAF (one hundred and 
twenty-five million CFAF) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
Page  17
basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  18
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
