Document of
The World Bank                    ;?              X
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3289-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
OF THE STATES OF MALAYA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA
FOR A
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
April 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.0 = M$2.30
M$1.00  =  US$0.435
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (cu m)             =  35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 meter (m)                      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (sq kn)       =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                     =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic meter per second (cms)  =  35.31 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 kilovolt (kV)                  =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)          =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)          =  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 kilowatt (kW)                  =  1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                  =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)            =  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)             =  3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
ABBREVIATIONS
EPU    -  Economic Planning Unit, Malaysia
KED    -  Kinta Electric Distribution Co., Ltd.
LNG    -  Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC   -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MN     -  Merz and McLellan Consulting Engineers, UK
NEB    -  National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya
PRHE   -  Perak River Hydroelectric Power Company, Ltd.
SEB    -  Sabah Electricity Board
SESCO  -  Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
NEB:         September 1 - August 31
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAY S IA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The National Electricity Board (NEB)
Guarantor:            Malaysia
Amount:               US$86.3 million [including the capitalized front-end feel
Terms:                15 years, including three year s grace with interest
at 11.6% per annum.
Project Description: The project comprises:
(a) Z/5 kV Kenyir-Tanah Merah transmission line;
(b) About 1ZO km ot lIZ kV transmission lines and
suDS tations;
(c) Rural distribution network in Kedah, Kelantan,
Trengganu and Pahang States;
(d) Minihydro schemes; and
(e) Consulting services tor the Z/5 kV line and
minihydro schemes.
lhe project covers a three-year time slice
(1983-85) ot the rural electrification program in
Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang which, inter
alia, will result in the supply ot electricity to
about 130,000 households.
Risks: There are no unusual risks associated with the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Cost Estimate:
(US $ Million)
Item                                                Foreign    Local    Total
1.  275 kV Kenyir-Tanah Merah Line                    11.0       7.3      18.3
2.  132 kV lines and associated substations            8.9       6.9      15.8
3.  Rural electrification projects                    77.1      85.7    162.8
4.  Mini-hydro projects                               20.6      25.4      46.0
5.  Consulting services
(a) 275 kV line                                 0.6       0.2       0.8
(b) Kedah Valley Project                        -         1.4       1.4
(c) Mini-hydro projects                         0.9       -         0.9
Base Cost                            119.1    126.9    246.0
6.  Physical contingencies                             4.5       4.3       8.8
7.  Price contingencies                               28.6      30.8      59.4
Total Project Cost /1                    152.2    162.0    314.2
8.  Front-end fee on Bank Loan                         1.3       -         1.3
Total Financing Required                 153.5    162.0    315.5
Financing:
Foreign    Local    Total
IBRD                          86.3       -        86.3
Supplier's credit             15.5      10.0      25.5
Commercial banks              51.7       -        51.7
NEB-s resources                -        19.7      19.7
Government equity              -       132.3    132.3
Total                  153.5    162.0    315.5
Estimated
Disbursement:
Bank FY         1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual            3.3   20.0   30.0   27.0    6.0
Cumulative       3.3   23.3   53.3   80.3   86.3
Rate of Return:         About 26% for the Rural Electrification program,
accounting for about 65% of the project cost.
Appraisal Report:       No. 3733-MA, dated April 26, 1982.
MAP:                    IBRD No. 16192
/1  The costs are net of taxes and import duties as NEB is exempt from them.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATES OF MALAYA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA FOR A RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya (NEB) with the
guarantee of Malaysia for the equivalent of US$86.3 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Rural Electrification Project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA) is dated October 14, 1977. In July 1980,
a book, written at the request of the government and entitled "Malaysia:
Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society" was published. This section
contains information gathered in recent updating missions; a new economic
report is under preparation.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia-s economic performance has
been outstanding. The per capita income of US$1,670 in 1980 (World Bank
Atlas) is among the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita
GDP growth has averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per
capita growth achieved in the sixties. This sustained good performance is a
reflection of several factors including the country's wealth in natural
resources especially ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; good economic and financial management; and, not least,
stable social and political institutions. Three specific elements have been
important: first, substantial attention and priority has been given to
agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in the sector, which have
cushioned against occassional steep price declines; second, manufacturing
growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two decades, following
first an import substituting pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards
exports; third, in a very open economy with exports and imports averaging 49%
of GDP (1970-80), exports have diversified from an initial large dependence
on rubber and tin to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income
between ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious
poverty problem. In 1970, about half the households in the country had
insufficient incomes to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter,



- 2 -
clothing and other basic needs.  This poverty has been concentrated among
agricultural families, which are predominantly Malay. In 1971, the govern-
ment declared a New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority
to eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalance in income,
employment and the ownership of assets. More specifically it was targetted
that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be reduced to 16.7% of
households, and that the share of Bumiputeras /1 in the ownership of the
corporate sector will increase from about 4% in 1970 to at least 30%. These
intentions serve as the fundamental policy objectives of government. In the
mid term of this program, substantial progress has been made. By 1980, the
incidence of poverty had declined to 29% of all households and there were
125,000 fewer poor households than in 1970.  The Bumiputera share of
corporate assets increased from 4.3% in 1971 to an estimated 12.4% in 1980,
whilst the Chinese community achieved their target 40% share in 1980, some
ten years ahead of schedule. Over the same period, there were significant
changes in the distribution of employment in line with the restructuring
objective that employment in all sectors and at all levels reflects the
racial composition of the country.
5.        The government's overall strategy of pursuing high growth, along
with a series of direct interventions have been instrumental in this fast
pace of achievement of the NEP objectives. In particular over the last
decade, the rapid opening of income and employment opportunities in the
modern sector, where productivity and wages are much higher than in agri-
culture, successfully channelled the flows of labor market entrants into
positions where they did not become, or remain poor. Simultaneously, this
reduced the pressure of population on the agricultural base. Thus, only 14%
of the net addition to the labor force between 1970 and 1980 was accounted
for by new agricultural employment, in contrast to previous decade where 35%
of all new jobs were found in agriculture. At the same time, high labor
demand facilitated the penetration by Malays into occupations and sectors in
which they were previously under-represented, as well as fostered Malay
mobility into the more senior levels of occupations. In addition,
restructuring corporate asset ownership was made easier by the rapid
economy-wide growth, where redistribution could occur from the increments to
national wealth rather than from existing stocks. Direct interventions by
the government, however, also proved important in the progress toward
achieving the NEP objectives. These were particularly extensive in
agriculture, including new land development and farmer resettlement, major
irrigation schemes, technical and financial support for rubber replanting,
extension and marketing assistance, and selective subsidy programs. The
success of many of these programs is attested by the fact that smallholder
productivity over a range of products increased significantly during the
decade, with positive impact on farm income and reduction of poverty.
/1 "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to
refer to Malays and other indigenous groups.



The government also directly intervened to achieve the asset redistribution
target. Because the volume of MAalay savings is relatively small, as may be
expected with lower average Malay incomes, substantial amounts of corporate
equities were purchased by the government to be held "in trust" for the
Bumiputera community. Recently a scheme has been developed to divest these
government holdings to individual Malays.
6.        Against this broad background of progress, the economy has been
*          undergoing some important structural changes.  Industry has replaced
agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and manufactured exports have
replaced import substitution as the cutting edge of industrial growth. As
*          noted, the composition of exports has changed from a rather narrow to a much
more diversified set of commodities. This diversification has proved
important as two of Malaysia's major foreign exchange earners - timber and tin
show signs of flagging vitality. In the case of timber, exploitation of the
resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences and the government
has now established a Forest Conservation policy which will limit, in effect,
the quantum of exports. In the case of tin, increasing costs of extraction
and the exhaustion of many mines have resulted in declining export volumes.
But perhaps the most important ongoing change in the economy's structure is
the diminishing retention of labor in the rural areas, such that it is
expected that the agricultural labor force may soon peak before declining in
absolute numbers. Whilst plentiful evidence points to selective processes at
work fostering this outcome, the precise turning point is not easy to predict
as much depends on the rate of growth of and the pace at which labor can be
absorbed in the modern sector. Nonetheless, some of the symptoms of this
change including accelerating migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns, more visible "shortages" of semi-skilled agricultural
laborers and an increasing incidence of idle and abandoned land suggest that
future problems of agriculture and poverty in Malaysia may differ in important
respects from those of the past. The poverty problem is likely to be
increasingly characterized as one of aging, elderly farmers, unable to adjust
fully to loss of family labor, with consequent reduction in their farm output.
The great importance of agriculture to the Malaysian economy both in terms of
its contribution to GDP as well as its role as a major earner of foreign
exchange - makes it important to devise policies which maintain the agricul-
tural resource base, improve land/man ratios, augment agricultural labor
productivity and incomes, and improve, through social interventions, the
*          standard of living in the rural areas.  Mindful of these challenges the
government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of agricultural
strategy and policies, with the intention of announcing a National
Agricultural Policy later this year.
7.        Whilst, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occassional difficulty.
This is true of the very recent past where Malaysia has been particularly
affected by downturns in the prices of major export commodities. Between 1977
and 1980 prices for palm oil, rubber, timber and petroleum increased rapidly



- 4-
and export receipts nearly doubled.  The terms of trade improved by 15% in
the same period and real national income increased by more than 10% p.a.
Since 1980, however, prices for rubber and tin have fallen rapidly, palm oil
and timber prices have not recovered to the high levels experienced in 1979
and. in part, due to the recession in the OECD countries, petroleum and
manufacturing export volumes have declined.  Somewhat expansionary, contra-
cyclical, fiscal and monetary policies have been applied to cushion the
impact of terms of trade imposed losses in real income and to maintain the
momentum of growth. In combination, these elements have led to sharp
deterioration in the current account of the balance of payments from an
average surplus of about 2% of GNP in 1977-80 to a deficit of about 10% in
1981 and an expected similar outcome in 1982. Gross external reserves
declined from about 5 months import coverage in 1980 to 4 months at the end
of 1981. Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, increased from
an average of 4% in 1976-79 to about 10% in 1981.
8.         In the short run, Malaysia should not find it difficult to weather
external deficits of this magnitude. The country has rarely run large
balance of payments deficits with the result that its external indebtedness is
relatively low, and in recent years, the debt service ratio has averaged
about 5%. The country's creditworthiness ratings are, therefore, excellent.
Over the medium term, however, very large deficits will not prove sustain-
able. Some relief on the export side may, however, be expected. Recovery
from the international recession should improve major commodity prices and
restore some of the dynamism of Malaysia's manufacturing export growth;
additional foreign exchange will be earned as the country begins to export
LNG, starting in 1983. At the same time a more appropriate balance between
national expenditures and national income will need to be restored. The
"boom" years of 1977-80 substantially raised the investment ratio to GDP as
well as facilitated very high import growth. Close surveillance over the
level and growth of public expenditures, of the efficiency of public
investment, and of the size and sources of financing for the public deficit
will need to be exercised. In the longer term, the economy will no longer
be able rely so heavily on the rapid growth of primary commodities. Whilst
Malaysia is rich in natural resources, which will provide a reliable base
for the expansion of the economy, the growth rates of the production of such
commodities as rubber, palm oil, petroleum and forest products are all
likely to be lower than in the past. With growth decelerating in the
resource sector, continued rapid industrial growth will increasingly become
essential to successful economic performance. This imperative arises not
only from the viewpoint of production, and the creation of real incomes but
also from the viewpoint of achieving the NEP targets.  As the most obvious
areas of import substitution have been exhausted, sustained rapid growth in
manufacturing will have to rely increasingly on export expansion. Policies
will, therefore, have to ensure a favorable export environment. The
Government is presently undertaking a series of studies to serve as the
basis for the reformulation of industrial and export incentives.



- 5 -
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery over the
medium term, continued expenditure restraint by the government, and an
improved incentive structure for exports, the current account deficit should,
relative to GNP, decline from 1983 onwards and achieve approximate balance
later in the decade. Under this scenario, Malaysia will continue to enjoy a
7-8% GDP growth over the next few years. The debt service ratio will
increase from its average 5% of exports in 1977-80 to 12% of exports in 1990.
At end-1980 about 16% of external debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
World Bank. These percentanges are expected to remain unchanged by 1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has made 52 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,281.47
million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water
supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of March 31, 1982, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to $1,097.82 million. Twenty-three loans have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of projects under implementation.
11.       In view of Malaysia's proven capability to prepare and implement
traditional infrastructure projects independently, the Bank's present lend-
ing strategy in the country is to support the Government's programs to
combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an
institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the Agricultural Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
12.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years.  The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development



projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Ten
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 11 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years.
13.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more
heavily on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives
in providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure in the future will be selective, concentrating
on providing access to rural areas and rural electrification. The proposed
project will substantially increase the capacity to supply electricity to
four of the less developed states in Malaysia. It is expected to contribute
to the vitalization of the disadvantaged communities and provide the possi-
bility of using electricity to improve the productivity of the poor.
14.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1982 amounted to
$1.14 million (Annex II).
15.       Overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia has
been satisfactory.  Disbursement performar-ce. measuared in terms of cumulative
disbursements to cumulative commitments from FY75 to FY81 displays a pattern
of continuous improvement over the six-year period, although the ratio of
commitments to disbursements has remained unchanged. Overall disbursements
performance of $94.3 million in FY81 represented a 38% improvement over the
FY80 figure of $68.1 million. Based on actual disbursements for the first
half of FY82, the outcome for FY82 will probably be some $35 million above
the FY81 level. Actual disbursement by March 31, 1982, is $84.3 million
against the revised FY82 estimate for the year of $164.1 million. Despite
these improvements, disbursements lag behind the revised estimates for the
first half of FY82 by about $22 million. The major problems causing
disbursement delays are: delays in project start-up due to manpower
shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures; limited capacity
of the Public Works Department and the local contracting industry.  To
improve the situation, the Bank carried out its first project implementation
review in collaboration with the implementing agencies in November last
year. Further reviews will be undertaken periodically with a view to
improving the overall implementation of projects, which should have a
positive impact on disbursements. It is also proposed to reinforce the
implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements for the
benefit of the implementing agencies.



- 7 -
PART III - ENERGY AND THE POWER SECTOR
16.       Malaysia is dependent on oil for almost all of its commercial energy
requirements; oil consumption of 150,000 barrels per day (bpd) in 1980
accounted for about 93% of commercial energy used. Fortunately, the country
is a net exporter of oil. Petroleum exports have risen in value from about
*           $340 million in 1975 to $3.1 billion in 1980.  Against this the net value of
crude imports in 1980 was $800 million, providing export earnings of $2.3
billion or roughly 18% of total export earnings on crude account. However,
the rapid growth in oil consumption, averaging about 8.5% over the last 10
years, will either reduce the exportable surplus or lead to early depletion
of recoverable reserves. Diversification away from oil is, therefore, a
major policy objective.
Energy Resources
Oil
17.       Oil production increased from about 100,000 bpd in 1975 to about
276,000 bpd in 1980. Government conservatively estimates remaining recover-
able reserves at 1.74 billion barrels as of January 1981 whereas industry
sources put ultimate recoverable reserves at about 3-3.6 billion barrels.
Gas
18.       Total proven gas reserves are 31.2 trillion standard cubic feet
(sef), but expected reserves are 43 trillion scf. About 70% of the reserves
are non-associated gas, produced independently of oil production. Two gas
fields offshore in Sarawak are under development by the Shell Oil Co. in
order to supply gas to a liquified natural gas (LNG) plant in Bintulu coming
on stream in 1983, which will yield six million tons of LNG per year for
export to Japan. Gas will also provide for industrial development in the
Bintulu area including an ammonia/urea plant. Also a gas gathering system
and pipeline is planned from gas fields offshore Trengganu to transport the
gas onshore, where a 450 MW combined-cycle power generating plant is planned
for commissioning in 1984. A decision has also been taken to double the
capacity of this plant. Government is formulating other plans for gas
utilization, including the possibility of a pipeline across Peninsular
Malaysia to transport gas to the more populous west coast, for use as fuel
for existing or new power plants and in various other industries. A study
on gas development and utilization is being undertaken by Petronas (see
para. 24); the Bank has assisted in drafting terms of reference, developing
a framework for negotiations and advising on consultancy contracts.
Consultants have been selected.



-8-
Hydropower
19.       Hydroelectric generating capacity in Peninsular Malaysia is 640 MW,
with annual production of about 2,000 GWh. An additional 600 MW of capacity
(2,300 GWh) is under construction. Further schemes amounting to about
1,000 MW (about 5,000 GWh) are identified and in various stages of planning.
20.       Considerable hydroelectric potential is available in Sarawak and
Sabah, where there is little demand for electricity. In Sarawak alone pre-
sently known hydropower potential is about 10,000 MW. A feasibility study
for developing some of this potential for use in Sarawak and Peninsular
Malaysia is underway.
Coal
21.       Total coal reserves, estimated at 400-500 million tons, are loca-
ted mainly in Sarawak. Only 20% of these are considered economically exploi-
table and the quality is poor. Hence, domestically produced coal cannot
play any significant role in reducing the country's dependence on oil.
Organization
22.       A cabinet committee on energy formed in 1980 is responsible for
evolving the energy policy. It consists of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Minister, and Ministers of Energy, Trade and Industry, and Science and Tech-
nology. This committee is supported by a "Committee of Officials" chaired
by the chief secretary to the Government with representatives from Petronas
(para. 24), Treasury, the Ministries of Energy, Science and Technology, and
Trade and Industry, the National Electricity Board and the Economic Planning
Unit.
23.       The Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts created in
1979, has the responsibility for coordinating the activities of diverse
governmental agencies dealing with energy. The Secretary General (Energy)
is the highest level public servant in the Ministry. However, in practice,
the Ministry's responsibility for energy policy so far, has been limited and
consists primarily of jurisdiction over the National Electricity Board. An
Energy Unit was created within the Ministry in 1980 to act as a secretariat
for the cabinet committee on Energy, which is expected to have a wider role
in the energy sector in the future.
24.       Petronas, established in 1974 as a Government company, has operat-
ing responsibilities in the oil and gas sector. Malaysia's Petroleum
Development Act gives it exclusive rights over exploration and production of
petroleum. Petronas supervises work programs for exploration and production
of contracting oil companies and has authority to negotiate future produc-
tion sharing agreements. Exploration activities by Petronas are undertaken
through a subsidiary company, Petronas Carigali Berhad, formed in 1978.



-9-
The Power Sector
25.       Value added by the electric power sector accounts for only about
2% of GDP. However, electricity provides motive power to the manufacturing
and mining industries which amount to 20% and 5% of GDP respectively. The
growth of the power sector has kept pace with Malaysia-s economic
development. Between 1970 and 1980, GNP grew at an average rate of about
7.5% in real terms; the total electricity consumption grew at an average
rate of 12.8%.
26.       Electricity accounts for about 28% of the total consumption of
commercial forms of energy. Liquid petroleum fuels are used to produce
about 86% of electricity; the total petroleum fuel used for power generation
in 1980 was about 12.5 million barrels.
History of Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
27.       Of the nine power projects financed by the Bank, six have been
completed and are operating satisfactorily. The seventh project is also
substantially completed. Works financed under the eighth and the ninth
projects are under construction and no difficulties are expected. Project
completion reports and project performance audit reports (PPARs) for the
fifth and the sixth loans (700-MA and 1031-MA) have been issued. The fifth
project was completed about three months behind schedule with a cost overrun
of about 15% whereas the sixth project was delayed by eleven months and the
cost overrun was 31%. However, in both the projects the PPARs note that the
projects were executed as planned and major project objectives were
achieved.
Power Sector Organization
28.       Power in Malaysia is supplied principally by autonomous Govern-
ment-owned entities. The largest of these is the National Electricity Board
(NEB) serving Peninsular Malaysia, with the exception of part of the State
of Perak which is supplied by the Perak River Hydroelectric Power Company
(PRHE). The Government has acquired all of the ordinary shares of PRHE and
is now its sole owner. The final integration of PRHE with NEB is proposed
for October 1982. Sabah and Sarawak (the two states on the island of
Borneo) are supplied by Government-owned statutory authorities, the Sabah
Electricity Board (SEB) and the Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation
(SESCO).
Supply and Demand of Electric Power
29.       The installed generating capacity by the end of FY81 was 2,579 MW
out of which about 25% was hydro, 17% diesel, 4% gas turbines and 54% steam.
Out of this, NEB accounted for 2,168 MW of capacity (84%), of which 28% was
hydro. However, 86% of the total electricity production of about 9,120 GWh



- 10 -
in Pensinsular Malaysia was from steam, diesel and gas turbine installations
using oil. The production of electrical energy in Peninsular Malaysia in
FY80 was 810 kWh per capita and the consumption was 720 kWh. About 53% was
accounted for by industry, 31% by commercial users and 16% by residential
consumers. The transmission and distribution losses (about 10%) are
reasonable.
30.        NEB regularly conducts load forecasting studies to determine
shortterm (5 years) as well as long-term (20 years) forecasts. The fore-
casts up to the year 2,000 on the basis of such an analysis show the growth
rate to lie between a low of 8.7% and a high of 10.4% p.a. NEB has accepted
a mean of 9.3% growth rate for long-range planning which is reasonable. To
meet this demand about 2,040 MW of additional generating capacity is pro-
posed to be commissioned by NEB by the end of 1985, through projects under
different stages of implementation. It is estimated that an investment of
about M$6.2 billion ($2.7 billion), between 1982 and 1985 will be required
by the NEB for the development of generation, transmission and distribution
facilities to meet the projected demand.
National Electricity Board (NEB)
31.        The National Electricity Board, established under the Electricity
Act of 1949, is a financially sound, well-organized, and well-operated
utility. It regulates the production and use of electric energy in
Peninsular Malaysia and grants licenses for the installation and operation
of independent electricity works. NEB's Board of Directors is appointed by
the Minister of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts, and is subject to the
terms and conditions he may determine. The Board is headed by a Chairman
and a Deputy Chairman, who is also the General Manager.
32.        NEB's organization has been evolving to cope with the increase in
work load and responsibilities. A Rural Electrification Department, report-
ing directly to the General Manager, was organized in 1978 to improve effi-
ciency in the construction of rural schemes.
33.        NEB's billing and collection systems are efficient.  The corpora-
tion has been exempted since January 1980 from payment of corporate taxes
and custom duties. Dividends are normally paid to the Government on the
equity invested.
34.        Under the Electricity Act, NEB has the power to fix tariffs; how-
ever, in practice, tariff questions are reviewed and decided by the Govern-
ment. The latest tariff increase, of about 52% implemented in December 1980,
resulted in NEB having tariffs higher than most of the neighbouring countries
(paras. 59-62).
35.        NEB has 60% investment participation in a cable factory and a
transformer factory. Previous loan agreements contain a covenant that



- it -
limits NEB's investment in industries to a maximum of 1% of its gross fixed
assets revalued each year. This covenant is repeated in this loan (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 5.08).
Rural Electrification
36.       Rural Electrification in Malaysia began in the 1950s when, for
security reasons, a large number of villages were electrified from diesel
generators to provide perimeter lighting. Rural electrification with social
objectives, however, commenced with the first five-year Malaya development
plan (1956-60) on a small-scale, and slightly accelerated during the second
five-year plan (1961-65). During that decade about 600 villages with about
62,000 consumers received electricity. Subsequent five-year plans have
placed increasing importance on rural electrification.
37.       Financing of a rural electrification study was included under the
Seventh Power Project (Loan 1178-MA), in order to formulate a comprehensive
rural electrification plan and to review its technical, economic and finan-
cial implications. The study was completed in August 1978 by the Middle
West Service Company of Chicago in association with the Perunding Bersatu
Sdn. Bhd. of Kuala Lumpur.
38.       Implementation of the growing rural electrification program was
initially constrained by several factors, viz. organization, staff, mater-
ials procurement, way leaves, etc. Organizational changes were made and
special steps were taken to coordinate materials procurement, way leave and
other activities which were causing delays. As a result the implementation
performance of NEB for the rural electrification has improved substantially.
39.       The rural electrification program for the five-year period
1981-85 envisages an investment of M$868 million (US$377 million) and will
result in electricity supply to about 400,000 residential consumers. Over
60% of the investment will be in the comparatively less developed states of
Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, and Pahang. Current projections show that the
level of electrification in rural Malaysia will reach 75% by 1990, 85% by
1995 and 95% by the year 2000.
40.       Bank involvement in this subsector can be justified in terms of
the role of rural electrification in supporting the Government's objective
of poverty eradication through (a) job creation, particularly in the modern
industrial sector, labor absorption from low productivity occupations in the
rural areas: and (b) productivity improvement, especially of the rural poor.
The rural electrification program will facilitate industrial decentraliza-
tion and industrial expansion outside the 70-75 gazetted towns in Peninsular
Malaysia. The plans for development emphasize creation of modern off-farm
jobs, accessible to rural centers. Already, some 76 industrial estates have
been established and energized.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       The project includes part of the development program formulated by
NEB for the development of the transmission and distribution network in the
eastern states of Peninsular Malaysia and includes a three-year time slice
(1983-85) of the rural electrification program in the less developed states
of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang. The feasibility studies for the
transmission components were carried out by the planning department of the
NEB; the rural electrification program has been planned by the rural elec-
trification department of NEB, in coordination with the Economic Planning
Unit of the Government; the feasibility of minihydro schemes is being
studied by Stanley Consultants of the U.S.A. A Bank mission appraised the
proposed project September 1981 and negotiations were held in Washington in
April 12-14, 1982; the Malaysian delegation was led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob,
Deputy Secretary, Finance, The Treasury. Supplementary data are in
Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3733-MA), dated April 26, 1982,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Objectives
42.       The objective of this operation is to support NEB's efforts to
bring the benefits of electrification to those provinces now having a low
degree of electrification. By expanding the Peninsular transmission grid to
the states of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang, NEB is establishing the
foundation for subsequent electrification which will support development of
local manufacturing and economic activities. The project would assist NEB
in providing a distribution network to rural households in the villages of
Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang which have not previously had access
to electricity. Also minihydro projects will be constructed in the states
of Kelantan, Trengganu, Pahang and Johore to provide electricity in rural
areas.
Project Description
43.       The project comprises:
(a) a 275 kV transmission line from Kenyir (Trengganu) to
Tanah-Merah (Kelantan).
(b) about 120 km of 132 kV transmission lines and five 132/33 & 11 kV
substations with about 150 MVA transformer capacity in the states
of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang.
(c) rural distribution network in Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang
States involving about 478 km of 33 kV overhead lines, 22 km of 33
kV U.G.



- 13 -
cables, 1,600 km of 11 kV lines and cables, 5,000 km of 400 V
lines, 790 stepdown substations and some 140,000 service connec-
tions to residential, commercial and industrial consumers.
(d) minihydro schemes of about 50 kW to 1,000 kW capacity each in the
states of Kelantan, Trengganu, Pahang and Johore under investiga-
tion, which are found technically and economically feasible.
(e) consultancy services for the engineering and construction
supervision of the 275 kV transmission line, for the implementa-
tion of minihydro schemes, etc.
Evolution of the Project
44.       The 275 kV and 132 kV lines are a part of the transmission devel-
opment program, studies for which were carried out by Preece Cardew and
Rider consultants of the U.K. in 1976/77. These were reviewed and updated
by the NEB.
45.       The current rural electrification program consists of the normal
distribution expansion program funded by the NEB (RE-1), which includes
schemes which meet the financial viability criteria of the NEB, and the
program fully or partially funded by the Government which is designed to
accelerate the rural electrification activities (RE-2). The latter includes
schemes which primarily originate from local and provincial authorities.
The selection criteria for inclusion of projects in this program are both
social and technical e.g. (a) equitable distribution of schemes so that less
developed states get a higher allocation; (b) availability of other infras-
tructure facilities like roads, water supply, schools, etc.; (c) proximity
to the grid; and (d) cost per connection. This program will also create the
infrastructure for distribution network for the eventual extension of
electric supply to commercial and industrial consumers. Nearly 60% of the
RE program included in the project falls in the second category.
46.       The Government has assigned high priority to the development of
the minihydro schemes, perceiving them as an economical option for providing
electrical energy to rural areas for improving the quality of life and promo-
ting development. The NEB has been made responsible for the implementation of
the minihydro development in Peninsular Malaysia.
47.       A pilot program to implement six minihydro schemes was formulated to
provide NEB with experience to study the feasibility of schemes and select
appropriate technology and experience. Equipment for these schemes was pur-
chased by negotiations with suppliers in countries having experience in mini-
hydro development, including China, India, Japan, Germany and Canada. The
program was expanded to 22 schemes for immediate implementation (1980-82)
which is in progress. The Intermediate Technology Development Group (UK)
provided advice and arranged training of personnel for undertaking this
program.



- 14 -
48.       To accelerate the minihydro program, the Government employed three
consulting firms in 1980, to explore minihydro potential in the country and
propose about 100 viable schemes. Interim reports of these consultants will
provide sufficiently detailed technical and financial analysis to permit the
Government to select specific schemes for more detailed feasibility studies
and specifications for procurement of equipment.
49.       The project will include those schemes in the eastern states of
Peninsular Malaysia which are found technically feasible and economically
justifiable. During the Bank appraisal and negotiations, criteria were
agreed for selecting the schemes to be included in the project (para. 50).
Stanley Consultants (USA) will carry out detailed benefit/cost analysis of
each scheme.
50.       The minihydro schemes will be of three types viz:  (a) those which
will be connected to the grid immediately on commissioning; (b) those which
will replace existing diesel generation in rural areas; and (c) those which
will serve isolated communities not likely to have supply from other sources
in the near future. The justification for implementing schemes in the first
category will be based on their being able to provide energy at a lower cost
than the long-run marginal cost of supply from the grid. The evaluation of
benefits from the second category of schemes will be based on cost savings due
to the displacement of diesel generation. For the third category of schemes,
the justification will be based on the direct and surplus benefits arising out
of the use of electricity by consumers in the areas served by the schemes.
They will also have to be proven to be the least cost alternatives for
electricity supply.  The schemes having an internal economic rate of return
of at least 10% will be considered acceptable for Bank financing under this
project.
Engineering and Construction
51.       Merz and McLellan Consulting Engineers (MM-UK), along with the local
consulting firm of Tahir Wong, were appointed consultants by the NEB for the
engineering and construction supervision of the 275 kV transmission line,
under terms of reference accepted by the Bank. The engineering and con-
struction of the 132 kV lines and substations will be carried out by NEB's
transmission department who have adequate experience in such works. A local
consulting firm, Tenaga Ewbank Perunding, will be responsible for the
engineering and construction supervision of the Central Kedah Valley 33 kV
system development project which is one of the major subprojects in the rural
electrification program. Other components of the rural electrification
projects will be carried out by the respective departments of NEB viz. the
rural electrification department, the distribution department and NEB's
District Managers in the states. Stanley Consultants, Inc. (USA) are res-
ponsible for the investigation and engineering of minihydro schemes up to the
point of the preparation of tender documents. NEB has set up a minihydro
department for the implementation of the minihydro schemes with in-house
capability. However, advisory services from consultants will be sought in
areas like vendor selection and construction supervision according to the
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02).



- 15 -
52.        Consulting services for 275 kV line would amount to about 68 man-
months of which 31 man-months will be provided by the local consultants. MM's
man-month cost for the head office services is E 3,010 ($6,0P0). Man-month
cost for the local consultants is M$4,900 (US$2,130). The man-month cost
including travel, subsistence and other direct reimbursible expenses is
estimated at US$10,000 equivalent. Services of Stanley Consultants, Inc. for
minihydro work and Tenaga Ewbank for Kedah Valley 33 kV system development
are not being financed by the Bank. Estimation for further consulting
services for the minihydro projects is based on a man-month cost of $10,000.
Implementation
53.        The project implementation is to be completed by June 30, 1986.
The construction of the 275 kV line and 132 kV lines and substations is
expected to be completed by December 1985, and the minihydro projects by June
1986. The rural electrification program extends up to December 1985.
Cost Estimate
54.        The total project cost is estimated to be US$314.2 million /1 out of
which US$152.2 million (48.4%) is in foreign exchange. Basic prices have
been determined on the basis of materials and construction costs of ongoing
transmission and distribution projects, at March 1982 price levels and are
exclusive of taxes and import duties since NEB is exempted from them.
Physical contingencies of about 10% are provided.  Price contingencies amount-
ing to about 23% of base cost plus physical contingencies were estimated with
the following inflation rates for both local and foreign costs: 1982-8.5%,
1983 to 85-7.5%, 1986 and after-6.0%.
Financing Plan
55.        The following financing plan is proposed for the project:
Source                       Foreign   Local   Total
…---- US$ million…
IBRD                             86.3       -      86.3
Supplier's Credit                15.5      10.0    25.5
Commercial banks                 51.7       -       51.7
NEB's resources                   -        19.7    19.7
Government                        -       132.3   132.3
Total                     153.5    162.0   315.5
NEB will borrow from commercial banks with the guarantee of the Government.
Supplier's credit is proposed for financing the 275 kV transmission line
construction. The Bank loan, which will finance about 27% of the project
/1   The financing required, including the front end fee for the Bank loan,
would be US$315.5 million.



- 16 -
cost, will be used to finance the foreign costs of 132 kV lines and sub-
stations, minihydro projects, selected distribution equipment and consulting
services.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       All equipment and materials financed under the proposed loan would
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
57.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items and 70% of the cost of
imported items procured locally; and (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
consultants' services. The disbursement of the proposed Bank loan is expected
to be completed by December 1986. No disbursement will be made for expend-
itures prior to the loan signing.
Improvement of Rural Electrification Program
58.       During the appraisal of this project several measures were identi-
fied which would be introduced to improve the efficiency of the rural elec-
trification program: (i) strengthening of the NEB's planning department for
rural electrification, (ii) introduction of an information system which will
enable evaluation of the rural electrification program already implemented
to provide feedback for improving future planning, (iii) reviewing the design
standards for rural distribution to achieve cost reduction without reducing
safety and reliability standards below acceptable limits, and (iv, e.icouraging
productive uses of electricity in the Government-financed rural electrifi-
cation schemes. NEB has agreed to prepare detailed proposals and implemen-
tation programs for these, acceptable to the Bank, by September 1, 1982 and
implement them by September 1, 1983 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
NEB's Financial Position
59.       NEB has a sound capital structure (long-term debt as a percentage
of total capitalization was 42%) and satisfactory liquidity position at the
end of FY81. This was achieved as a result of tariff increases of 13.2% in
FY80 and 52% in FY81, coupled with equity injections of $293.0 million in
FY79 through FY81. Prior to these measures, in the five years ended FY80,
NEB was unable to implement tariff adjustments at levels adequate to recoup
fully the increases in operating costs, mainly fuel costs, which it was
required to pay at international prices. As a result, NEB's profitability
declined and in FY80 suffered an operating loss (about $36.0 million) for
the first time in its history. During FY81 NEB experienced a substantial
reduction in its sales growth rate./l   This was due mainly to delays in the
completion of the transmission line from Prai to the load center of Kuala
Lumpur and the need to put Port Dickson Thermal plant out of service for
unscheduled maintenance. Additionally, it appears that the steep tariff
increase implemented in December 1980 triggered electricity conservation
actions by the consumers. As a consequence NEB's rate of return on revalued
assets was 6.4% in FY81 and the self-financing ratio (SFR) was 10.2%,
compared to 25% convenanted under Loan 1808-MA for that year. This low
SFR is due to reduced sales volume, as explained above, larger capital
/1 Sales increase in FY81 was 7.4% compared to 11.1% in FY80.



- 17 -
development expenditure and a substantial increase in working capital.  NEB
and the Government have agreed to take steps to ensure that the recent
improving trend in NEB's financial position is maintained (para. 60).
60.       NEB has agreed to exchange views with the Bank on any proposed
changes in its tariff structure [draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(a)]. In
addition, to avoid the adverse impact of future increases in fuel cost and
other operating expenses, a procedure for yearly reviews and adjustment of
NEB's tariffs as required, was agreed with the Government and NEB [draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02 and draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(b)].
61.       Under Loan 1808-MA (Ninth Power Project), following a government
request, a self-financing ratio (SFR) covenant was introduced to replace the
rate of return covenant under previous loans. At that time the following
SFRs were agreed: 15% for FY80; 25% for FY81 through FY84 and 30% there-
after. Since then NEB has revised its development program. The revised
investment requirement is more than two and a half times that foreseen when
the Ninth Power Project was appraised in 1978. This increase is largely due
to cost updating and the more capital-intensive coal-fired schemes now
proposed to diversify energy sources. As a result, the self-financing
ratios agreed previously are no longer realistic. Accordingly it was agreed
during negotiations that NEB should be required to generate the following
minimum self-financing ratios: 15% in FYs82 and 83; 20% in FY84, 25% in
FY85 and FY86 and 30% thereafter (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.05). The
projected SFRs are expected to result in rates of return on net revalued
fixed assets in excess of 7.0% after FY83.
62.       Under Loan 1808-MA it was agreed that NEB would limit its current
liabilities to one-third of its cash operating expenses. NEB has managed to
reduce this ratio from 42% in FY78 to 32% in FY80. It is now considered
that at this stage a current ratio covenant is more appropriate to monitor
NEB's liquidity position. Such a covenant will require that NEB's current
ratio should be not less than 1.1 at any given time. This change was
introduced in the proposed loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.07).
63.       NEB's debt service coverage is expected to exceed 1.8 each year
during the period FY82 through FY88. Previous loan agreements require NEB
to limit its long-term debt to 60% of the sum of equity and debt. This cove-
nant will be repeated in the proposed loan agreement (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.06).
Benefits and Risks
64.       The project will not only result in providing electricity to about
130,000 households, but will substantially increase the NEB's capability to
supply electricity in the states of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang
which are the least electrified states in Peninsular Malaysia. The trans-
mission lines are justified as least cost alternatives for meeting the demand.
The benefits of rural electrification are evaluated by taking direct as well
as surplus benefits into account. For residential consumers, benefits
include revenue to NEB as well as savings due to substitution of kerosene by
electricity for lighting. The benefits for commercial consumers were estimated



- 18 -
by taking into account increased profits resulting from electrification by
use of refrigerators and other appliances. For industrial consumers the
benefits were equated to the cost of producing electricity by diesel
generators. On this basis the rural electrification component of the
project will have an internal economic rate of return of about 26%.
65.       There are no unusual risks in a transmission and distribution
project of this type. Also the minihydro schemes are being investigated in
sufficient detail to reduce uncertainties.
Ecology
66.       Transmission and distribution projects will be designed and
constructed in accordance with the current technological practices and will
cause minimum disturbance to the environment. Also no safety hazards are
foreseen. The minihydro projects will also be engineered and implemented to
confine adverse ecological effects to a minimum. Since all minihydro schemes
will be of the run-of-the-river type without reservoir storage, the environ-
mental problems will be concerned mainly with forest clearance for access
roads and clearance of small areas for powerhouse construction. NEB proposes
to coordinate closely these activities with the Ministry for Land
Development and the State agencies concerned with agriculture and forestry.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft  Loan Agreement between NEB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
68.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 29, 1982



- 19 -                                     ANNEX 1
TARLE SAk                                         Page  1  of 5
MALAYSIA - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSLA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
LAND ARLA (THOUSAND SO. KM )                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOIAL             32Y.8                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       65.1               1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNY PER LAtITA (US$)                   250.0        470.0    1370.0                 1136.1                   1616.2
LNERGY LONSUMPI1ON PEx CAP1IA
(KILOGRAMS OF CUAL EQUIVALENI)      252.8        518.0      767.2                1150-.6                   1324.1
POPULAYION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATION, M111-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  802s.0      10729.0   13137.0
URBAN POPULAIION (PERCENI OF TOTAL) 25.2          27.0       29.1                  40.8                      64.2
NOPULAIIoN PROJECTIONS
A)PULASION lN YEAR 2000 (MIlLIONS)                         19.9
STaTIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                         24.3        32.5       39.8                 373.1                      34.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    150.b          193.7     197.4                2382.8                      94.5
POPULATION AGL STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YEs.                          45.2         45.4       4L.5                  39.8                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                          51.2         51.5       55.1                  56.7                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ANOVL                     3.b         3.1        3.4                   3.5                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.5         2.9        2.2                   2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                4.6         3.6        3.1                   3.8                       3.7
GRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       39.1        32.6       28.3                  29.7                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.1          6.8       5.7                    7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..           ..       1.8                    1.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNIhG
ACCLPTORS. ANNEAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        56.0       80.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .:            7.0      36.0                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           85.0         99.0      118.0                 123.7                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    105.0       113.0      117.0                 112.6                     107.6
PRoULLNs (GRAMS PER DAY)            48.0        51.0       57.0                  62.5                      65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.0        18.0       22.0                  19.7                      34.0
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORIALITY RATE       13.3          7.8       2.0                   4.8                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.3          59.5       68.2                  64.0                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               *-        40.8       31.8                  50.2                      70.9
ACCESS IO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PO uLATION)
TOTAL                                           29.0       62.0                  45.9                      65.7
URBAN                                          100.0       93.0                  68.0                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..          2.7      49.0                  34.4                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        59.0       60.0                  53.4                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..       100.0      100.0                  71.0                      75.7
RURAL                                 *         43.0       43.0                  42.4                      30.4
OPUULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7467.9/d    4527.0/d  8733.7/e               4428.7                    1728.2
FOPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1776.0/c    1467.1/d  1288.8/d./e            2229.7                    1288.2
PoPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              265.0/d     320.8/d   306.0                  588.5                     471.2
URBAN                                 ..       147.1/d       ..                 579.6                     558.0
RURAL                                 ..      2463.8/d       ..                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          17.9     17.2                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
ToTAL                                5.9         5.6/d
URBAN                                5.9         5.9/d
RURAL                                 ..         5.5jd
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.0          2.6/J
URBAN                                2.3          2.3/d
RURAL                                 ..          2.8/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        43. 4Ld
URBAN                               82.9        84. 7/d
RURAL                                 *-        30.15Ld



- 20 -                                           ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0         91.0      94.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                 108.0        95.0       95.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE                83.0        87.0       92.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 19.0         35.0      48.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                  25.0        40.0       52.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                13.0        29.0       44.0                   48.6                     35.6
VUCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.2        2.0                   21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         32.0      31.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                          38.0         26.0      27.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         53.0        55.0         ..                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         22.2      39.1                   12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         37.7         40.1     119.4                  174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         12.1      53.0                    50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  61.0         73.0     149.3                  106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0           9.4       2.7                     4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2745.3       3622.2    4573.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.0         31.4      31.3                   37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.1         56.0      50.6                   50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.7         14.0      15.8                    21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                34.2         33.8       34.8                   40.2                     31.8
MALE                                  48.8        45.7       47.3                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               18.9         21.5      22.0                    31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.3                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           .      279.0                      .
RURAL                                ..           ..     252.0                  193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     313.0                     ..                     513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     283.0                  234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      16.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      46.0                    32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962;  /d Peninsular Malaysia;  /e Government personnel only.
May, 1981



-21-                                                  ~~~~M~NEX 1
- 21  -                                               ~~~~Page  3 of  5
DEFINITIONS Op SOCIAL NT IClAfORS
scla -,cefl c  dasca If-edar  of eaglieude, i-cat-  trends, cad  baw---te  caca fr-Ja, difft--ca                      -betaaearut_ae
af  lteobecaauar   faca>  ar  lacel  fcls01lyraa  garay where DEAcl mI lAlaceeNry                         -trc  aad liddla~ raee  le c-..rser~
aa-cluselffai-tes-)  It la  -f-eecc  grap dat  eta a--ag-w  aePeplflcat bedefuccst  f-  - tac   cdcccac and dah-  caly ale
sarllya   bcucrcmc ay fba  dtefe ..o.adcaat.   lace, the ....t-ge of  -....... ...acg rtah adlctt  dap-dlfa cc-ae  -aiaclklty zl dat
LAIi.do cace-d-Sbo1r-ucTta   e  HsSa  dd-ce,cit,  cr  Fcl -1-~
Iced  -   Ic- ufc   raoerfatuIg la-d are  cd lalend aaes                                        rhr   r  rotell dtalde bterrprlu   cIhclbcpcl bade
tan oc.pe . pasc-te .  a tad Ottah.r gccdsae cc ac ice falIa-  1978 data                         habI Iatca   eaer .  uela  Is act bcatll l-a-n  P-ru-el  seafted
bya   es  caa. pyolr            neltblfacs-t  per-llug  -re-ipalllr acac
GSF PER 0AP1101 'II")   1(5 I eNaC    l   ssfas   tcctrcscetplr,                                      dPaI-' r   a  ccoed              cc  hamylels  crere, h',       ta ,alt
c-leted by saws... ccctctc _     bad alaald Saul Atlln  (1977f  bectct; 1910                       cad -edirallttesra    errcuy               etd lcyys               barb  a
191.d  cadl 1579 da-la.                                                                            wecacsu--,cus,  lala,trydwIl  Ic   t-alat  cad
c_ocOty) cc kale grac  at cccl eta -ntcu   loac; 19hO, 19>1.cc  ISIS 19ecer--.  Spatawllas  bhsoccals art cclded ccly>                                       d trc t acll-
date.                                                                                             datacae  erOcpfl         -e ctul1 atatee at udutesta-  cc - disctola-
ft-c heePllele dOcod.d by ale.-b eleat beds.
P>OPLATION AIll SITALe STATISTICS
lacal PetclaclaaA. lt-ertbara)    Irf Holy 1; 1960, 1970, wad 1979                  0005100
0                             ~~~~~~~~data.                                                                                   Aceat   teaccss-d)aac hseblstt~bldl   rtlttaactl
dill .t.aI drfiillacaeaobcaeaaw  atfecs cap-rbtlly at date                                       sad  ha   caAras              Scectar cc   dg- as> orny n blh iacltded cc
a_.Egacacarl_e; 1910',170  wd199dec.                                                             tbha  uwb       a  las Oscars1 otac-..
Faculatlaw Palactlane                                                                   ceragtcuabtrocwrnar-  rarc-a-cctdl,crwr.atdraecl   ocedl...cI
lag lite epccrat bId c- eah             a    Ith -cuaty's  et cacota iuc.-                   Accs  olarlle(areta   ulia)-caa,ohc   n   as 
led,ad f_wal  lIfe                -bitec   eall Oilaga   >77.5 pasta.  The Ilrs-           Panuar  atal "nll"l"ecc. it,       ttt"Is Ia ill"a,q ecaa
meter  tar  arstlty  nao els  hera Iba   esl   sohu-sln   be                            at nasal, aa,wd tal   uel iag  c-p-i-ft 1.
flesl l1isp  -aadilg cclaua lecel aapaaDsly-0leclgycfrwe.
Elat  reetr   is ha  aelg'    ar  a- chec  cwI        a  fnwla   aD . caccicy             tICATION
Snatlanay eaaclcten-Duate    ...acy pepaletian the.ta Is a  gca-th star                  .rwr  aa        aal   aesdf l                   ..leas  rena, nla and ta
a_tasaactan-   This is coibend   ...yIF tec  fecllitayt case  te-ltre 5a                          ltcay s-hel-age yapulatt...; aec-llOclde  chillcc sgcd 6-11
'bh,   laeec  ee  atathc trdacacs .Iat  eah gacstnyear  bus ad)ustrd tar diltfernt lengths at prIest>  edactian  tat
at  eearylemetael   _soly      T  It.elcsypplca   es   w                                  aatleut          canta   _dcater,              . etlctny  aed11peas
aetleaed  -a the basis at tte .ra. eased  ...rs.....s.t.e at  be papalllaca                      eta  at   puIl  ar  belac at aboerth  atit                Kche-ae
sets      :,  00  ldt!~tl.end.                                                                   ed-cfst-nrtltctretctIl  -lestat y"      r  atl a-pyr-d pe l-at  -ncealauc
cite has besa reActed                                                                            ...al.  at10c I     >t  Yet fa ...cceead eacrs   t  g-neccll
P-r  a. On. - yltd->e-  y            Paata e  square kllna...  1>1c bletarc   a>                 Iact.ae   nalettsaa    teaadal-lcecs   nttt
tasal area; 1910, 19>0 and 1919 dataneuetcIalldsca.  ia te    rarn    brtataeldeys-d
anly; 1960. 19>0 cad 199de.al-sewnheccl      anr,mdsttwylslsaet    naltc
Fayclentai   0 A     ..uc.ca   tre-e-s  - O.l-lee  (f-Ic peers). . aaklng-age  (ll-                  yttwary and  -seadery Il...la dicidad by  -au-  a Isaac bet   Itlth
Iyears),  a  reO    6d5I years  -a ad erec   o..e..atc         f  itd-y-e  Papa-                   arspeadlaglese
lta;1911, 1970, cad 1979 dtan.                                                               Adalt lIteat  cae  rc t) - Liertm-eda1ce  fable te read and ertee)
GaplslanOras laetR     rss)-  a    - oclal1 g-ath -raa         f at.easelrid-                  sac      l ysreag   at ntatl adult  apulatta.  aged 15 yeats a adar
fas -llu -ean   Dec 1950-60, 1960-70, sat 1970-79.
Pa tucela  Scanb lae-tsrrst)                         ,-,thOnc    gea t.cne  at  tbentac     CONSUttPTIlN
lalr    c   950-60, i960-7l, end 1970-79.                                               PcegrCr   crtaea   aoctn      aeee   cscurs   ae
trd Lit   aelt  tree ... aacsdl - AIca  lir  haas  per   ..aucId at mid-yeas                  care ;7cain  lees tesIght Perae;scuds.baa..,hase   n
pplee;1910, 1970. sad 1979dens                                                            all tesy vmh,lrle.
Crud   eat h Elte tpra  tlauc-d) -   -ol  ed  ytchac..acdc at  ld-pee.                           ld itecMl... lysttbaeerd  Icuelcl-All atyce aDf.eu                         trrdia
Daeta;1911, 1970, end 19 79 den.-                                                         lrscacn serlpublic Per tha.....d atF                  llta;eree   t
Irass Deraduacac pat-Ir-rcs turbin  at dacgtn, saarcntt  tee--  ila                          Itan..s...I    ltts      caatced it Dear  abe  regtstct               If atrdi
betcana  taptdaalspeciad itft    aetne phrewern..             .           igfpat    e-sesasL  ette;_fasite  recent years say rat be  -pm...able slat
Ill In  c _e; amuel   fiye-ps   --rgew  sadIst in 1919, 1970, and 1979.                          maceIe.et tea~,b ateibId 1 enaa..
Faily P"'billc- Aaaesre dP        el(nauas          - aanac  number at --npra-                 DlPhs.et   amscene                    i_esa) - TVcser  tar bra-da-e  na
aI  lt htc-contaIdet-as  atdm- sapls   a .tin..analflasly   aslgp..gra..                          g.s.n-1 pablit  Per nth.s..d papalatia;  ..clcdea  altaesed II  -e-ser
Fesily Flaatna-Dscre (araman at crried name) - Psc....sge at caried                  tIaaus irtamsd In years ebma rsgits ta   atb lf  set  see In. istfft.
aceca  ebfld-bealrtacsa   (15-44 years) etate  btrrb--a-rl deei.e. ta                       seesm    icaahnI  cchoederletn                            s  th    .rrg  a.r-
PlOD  tIn N5TRIgI_N                                                                                  ta he  detly 'It  tepesatlattu  tsute
leAse D lea  Praduetas  ec Cett  (119-71100  -Indeatptapcare                      Cucem  AnnuaI A-tmdsc- peBapa..e Dm-gsd ac the numbe  atI
prdnsa  a,ll teed casedisll-   P-adutits  alae  seden   eed                                tickets sl-d duttig tha y-s, iratadiag sdtete  ta. driesIn ale wa
te -aewlded.  Agg9-gan  P-ad-nte  at.f  ten  canty Ea be...d an                        1IABOR1FORCE
aenia..nI.. secrge praducet pctnenmighte; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 data,                   .     1us1 Icta  trt P   ntuuaeOml - Iantminllyathr- petmns,latlll
Per cetasnl   tcats(p-reatt fCltr                      .rt)- apcrd  re               rd ftamescdi ac..                     yd.u..ldlgtaeetm,eaees   t.
snergnmgtrslmanat uae  acd suplIes arltbl_ lnaa-aaiyper-nplnt                      castg papaltl   a  all ages               iii..ltttas    ID yera-  aaattm   Are
pe  .AEilbleaP ..e  ..ap..s  deasi  ycdctti,epre -less... man aaps...bls; 1960, 1970 std 1979 data.
ap-rs,sa  atse  I   ta . geneppei_ nad   antsl teed, seds,                                   Peas(ees)- PFm1i  Ilatr- aa  as- per-snsg  at nasa  lehan teects.
Iwattlesl se  Is ta   p     ..eJ.,a, cud Ia..s. I  distribasl      R. cqut-              Aatrlsr   eraa)-lae   areI  erIghtree ..tnIng mad
means wr  act.tA by PFAD bes.dan phystlgll na,l  -I,ds ta  an-me  mst-                          htstn  emPeretg   at nacPE    el later ta ; 1960. 19711 sad 1979 dens.
rE>ad  elth aacidmstgi rtteatlnepctwnat, tady -igtgbc, sm                             Ind-usr  tre--et) - Lbta  frE.--E in  lisg,aactprssntautg
ca    n   tc ibetnatppuata,en   llmn   10  s               fsesta  ease  assd cleantlaty. eaersd gas as p-rcenngs at ta-s  lebe  teens; 1960.
lauselhldine;1      911,-90  ead lp    1977 dece. ET1970 end 1979  cc
Dec sr Is ca,le  D prsmie(gras at de) -  ratsntanmat  t ye  asyts            eetttletan gte (erast) -nata,fels, 1ad ttsnl   - Prttaymcts a
act  -uPly af twad Per I,,, Nan supply at teed Is de'tlnede bter.. R.-                         antlyyse              aptcd  ts nasa,  cie, end tfwle lebo  Darts c
qurmasDtal     asactes_ senbllsbd by 19SDA p-aide tar...t. D5 5g55 at Ntl, wale cr0Isel  pot'letian ct dl, sge ey- ra-ti-y;
alasc   o tI  cres  at eacat peo-et  per dcy and 201 gefe  at  rtal end1991, 1970, end 1979 dmes.  Tdhese ar  bssd an ILls. P-rtlaipat-o  es
Pulep    Iet,a  etab 11 gere  htauld be anslpaet    bessed                                       mletgeesccent   teapplsr,ed be.g time  -rd.  A4
anma  panlADsnercreg   tot chs  -al%. prep-d by PAD In ehs Thtrd                    IaEa_tasescygcl-mct  aD pac,leett- order 15 emd 65 sad ....
gN_ld Faad S-rns; 1991-61, 1970 cad 1977 dt.                                                   ta  nhc stal1 later tarts.
tiDed trm   neel  an ussI  Rams per dey; 19161-65,197111    sad 1977 dane,                 INCOME DISTRIBUIO71N
1bld    -4e y0ltasliyNes(telhd         sn-b     ace  des  c  teaed  s                     Pehane  a   rOse  ncs  (ah  scahsa   In)- Reastred byrlbith
age grad  10 tests, c  chIldrenin this ag  graup; ta  test derlali teIns            eaa, rtihesc 20 p-rces, p--e  20 peeet, end paee-  40 pateest
etsl.!desed. dm-rd team if Itte   bles; 19811, 1970 cad  1979 dana.                              a   emtl
HEALTH1                                                                                          PO111TY TAGgET GROUPS
Lets tewatway es  treb lcats) - -nSeg  number at yserc atltts  -mssats                  The tel. ea  esi.  se Is  t  rety appreaitmec   maueatpaa-y ler-ls,
me lit"cb .186~0,R ogyl sad 1979 Ames.                                                           medshaldgbe itla p-tred steb  raederele sb            l
AlIa. n  gae]Wter(t .a.a et  atleac - hmetal    ie.fsad rural -~   y NEs-                         cst-dcil  ae.,s  dty   plac es-1te  cat-teal                   -belwnt  t-1ea
W.ts ,p:y      , Pldm    ree   se  n  eeesa   ncenlht  asaam lessd                      l-lmitegleetey  Perecty dIntet PIr-  (-119 eec. fdets   l-.uten cad rurll-
a Z    tlnsmnr    aaecns    anrsamealcpnaelttw    tteaacy    re Aerel ta dmrtred team hsh  easel
teasPElp as              rbadpam  lcasd   -nat  tars heta   dId  wecta   e beuse nay he          le-rel vs   ducestr  tb cs   titlgI   tnae
_asteedshia  ec taa.   I   I reaanhi  ans a:tt      b-usd. Is tatm1`i atca d                Ewetiassd PRuI1leta  Nela  gla_le  Pas     Iam  lenitd  -ps-b-  -d uthe1
eac hestl   macass ca..d  iP-ly-hncsIceet             memersat  te  aashaR-wa  canal  -                         Pet-etya  aul a    tahcel ta fl eden.ar               'Pwaun
""tsIIsIcct deatr1tet Its -aweh'.scant- :                                        at                ..aIechlan-.bafc  hiaht...  sadl easel --
N..hsitd sp-d       sunsthi   bssndarels -rs hpsapee              Itwya1wIala.~                                                                        L-Ilb
1s  issltcdctleas,b                                                                                                                                 Nayh.h.  1  .pl.i- ..' 198
daplela   tw halle  dPwlpulss  dits   17mset                    pe hetatg pths
ticess tccetl-Xm   eu   tait. el ecosl m  nasrerty .aw.             - Id..1-
Peuaia  w   asesPre     Pplsa   uits   yNte  tpssaa
sable ca  Canals  eden  nes.bcetelsr                   , a    ...s.san di ceses,



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980:                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      %         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979  1980
GNP at Market Prices            22,461    100.0          6.4       7.8     7.6   6.2   9.2   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment        6,690      29.8         6.7       9.6    20.8   7.5  11.1  18.2
Gross National Saving            6,443      28.7          .         .
Exports of Goods, NFS           13,996      62.3         6.0       8.0     4.5   7.4  14.0   3.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           13,295      59.2         2.9       7.3    15.1  12.4  20.0  16.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 /a
Output              Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln      Z          M        %          US$         _%
Agriculture               2,792     24.6         2.1    41.2         1,351       60.5
Industry                  3,657     32.2         1.2    23.5         3,035      136.0
Services                  4,920     43.2         1.8    35.3         2,701      121.0
Total/Average       11,369    100.0          5.1   100.0        2,232      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                       % of GDP
1980          1980         1971-75         1976-80
Current Receipts                  16,371         31.9           24.0             29.1
Current Expenditures              15,615         30.4           22.5             26.4
Public Authorities Surplus           291          0.6             0.8             1.0
Current Surplus                    1,047          2.0             2.3             3.7
Development Expenditures           9,596         18.7            10.8            14.2
Foreign Borrowing (net)            1,590          3.1             2.3             2.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money           4,124  4,668  5,762  7,552  8,714  9,982  12,748  14,819  17,467  21,663  27,648
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          957  1,174  1,357  1,652  1,999  2,600   3,321   4,006   3,765   4,585   5,646
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                        2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278  6,077   7,511   9,008  11,844  15,311  20,823
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                    33.9   36.0   40.5   40.3   38.1   44.7    45.4    45.8    48.2    49.0    53.8
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8  144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3   180.1
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index              1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4    4.5         2.6     4.8      4.9      3.6     7.0
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         -8.4   22.7   15.6   21.7   21.0   30.1    27.7    20.6    -6.0    21.8    23.1
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1   15.1    23.6    19.9    31.5    29.3    36.0
/a In 1970 prices.
. not applicable
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 23 -                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1978   1979   1980    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
(US$ million)                   (US$ Million)
Exports f.o.b.                  7,658 10,948  12,819   Rubber                       1,924    18.3
Imports f.o.b.                  6,035  7,902  10,699   Timber                       1,626    15.4
Nonfactor Services (net)         -784 -1,021  -1,397   Petroleum                    1,994    18.9
Resource Gap (deficit)            839  2,025      723   Tin                         1,037      9.8
Factor Services (net)            -730   -759    -911   Palm Oil                     1,052    10.0
Net Transfers                     -37    -54      -56   All Other Commodities    2,899    27.5
Balance on Current Account        144  1,212    -244
Total               10,532   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         490    668      910
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                 1,473  1,334   1,038   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Amortization                    858    587      398
Subtotal                        615    747      640                                     US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -502    469  -1,322   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   4,696
Increase in Reserves (-)         -459   -672    -472   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   4,696
International Reserves          3,243  3,915   4,387
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      %
Imports                         665    942   1,504
Exports                       1,060  1,981   3,111   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          2.3
Of which:  Crude Petro-                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum          1,017  1,922   3,022   Total Outstanding & Disbursed          2.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            587.39
1971              3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                         510.43
1972              2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,097.82
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
1980              2.22           0.45
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                        Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-three loans fully disbursed                               454.97
880     1973   Malaysia          Population                      5.00       0.22
931     1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                   19.50       2.78
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00         19.27
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)                19.00       6.49
1044     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement                36.00      10.44
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50       4.33
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   32.00       2.41
1213     1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                       21.50       8.55
1214     1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)           26.00       7.28
1294     1976   Malaysia          Rural Development              21.00       7.54
1329     1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                 35.00      18.79
1376     1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                  35.00      13.67
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00       4.65
1444     1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                     39.00      24.13
1493     1978   Malaysia          National Extension             19.00      14.36
1522     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00         16.12
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                     13.00      4.15
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement                28.00      25.52
1608     1978   Malaysia          Population (II)                17.00      14.79
1618     1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50         13.56
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50         17.73
1657     1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                  38.00      27.39
1717     1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                     31.00      23.72
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                      50.00      41.61
1899     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Development        25.00      23.94
1900     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit             30.00      30.00
1957     1981   Malaysia          Rompin-Endau                   40.00      40.00
Area Development
1960     1981   Malaysia          Trans-Perak
Area Development              50.00      50.00
2013     1981   Malaysia          Felcra                         37.00      37.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                    1,281.47
of which has been repaid                            180.53
Total now outstanding                               1,100.94
Amount sold                                43.89
of which has been repaid                 40.77        3.12
Total loans now held by Bank                        1,097.82
Total undisbursed                                                510.43



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                         business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                    financing        -      1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                      Cement          1.28      0.28       1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel           2.45      1.01       3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel               -     0.23       0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.          Textiles        1.25      0.25       1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                    financing        -      0.63      0.63
Total gross commitment                                 4.98      3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09      3.46       7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                      0.89      0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                                          ____



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 31, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearance of about 33,600 ha of land and
planting of 26,200 ha of oil palm, construction of 5 palm oil mills, 8
villages, access roads, power and water facilities and settlement of about
7,000 families. The project is fully disbursed and the Project Completion
Report is being prepared. About 31,100 ha of oil palm have been planted
(118% of appraisal estimate) and 5,940 families have entered the schemes.
Major project works are nearing completion and project performance has been
generally satisfactory. Total project costs at $163 million exceed
appraisal estimates by 80%. However, the economic rate of return is
expected to be favorable because increase in commodity prices should more
than offset the increased costs.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 25,500 ha of land and
planting and maintenance of about 22,300 ha of oil palm; construction of
three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families. The project is progressing satisfactorily. About 21,000 ha
of oil palm or 95% of appraisal target had been planted by December 1981 and
the third and last palm oil mill financed under the project is expected to
be completed in September 1982. However, there is considerable delay in
settler entry due to delays in provision of water supply by the Public Works
Department (JKR). Disbursements are 70% of appraisal target.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen MARDI-s research
programs and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of
Agriculture. The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was
changed from commodity specific research to include all broad-based research
programs of the Research Institute. Subsequently, the loan was reduced from
US$28.5 million to US$20.5 million involving reductions in the use of consul-
tants, livestock, equipment and civil works components. The project is now
progressing satisfactorily, but recruitment of consultants has remained a
problem, as MARDI has decided against any long-term appointments. In order
to build a more effective link between research and extension and to improve
the transfer of new technology to farmers, MARDI and DOA have recently
agreed to work more closely. After a long delay, the construction of ELU-s
office complex and installation of the ELU and DOA computers are underway.
Disbursements are in line with the reappraisal target but there has been
some reallocation of proceeds, in particular, the agreement with the Bank to
finance a metabolism unit and controlled environment facilities.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/
state relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the
main constraints are (a) the inability to fill operative level posts due to
the shortage of trained staff and the temporary status of posts; and (b) the
inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works
designs. Hiring of operative level staff will improve significantly in
Peninsular Malaysia in 1982 because of the increase of graduates specialized
in agriculture; however it will continue to be a major problem in Sabah and
Sarawak. Civil works construction is expected to show considerable
improvement in Peninsular Malaysia. Progress is satisfactory in Sarawak and
improving in Sabah.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Progress has been slow due mainly to delays in forest clearance
and land release in some areas of Pahang State. In January 1982, Bank
agreed to FELDA-s request to replace the problem areas and change the crop
mix. The project now consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
21,000 ha of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa; settlement of
7,200 smallholders; and construction of necessary housing and infrastructure
facilities. FELDA plans to accelerate the project implementation rate to



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
complete all plantings by late 1984 in line with appraisal estimates. About
13,800 ha have been planted to date against the appraisal target of 29,100
ha, but disbursements to December 1981 were only $2.5 million against the
appraisal target of $16 million.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date:  February 23, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 16,400 ha of
traditional coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, and fruits; new
planting and replanting of about 6,900 ha with hybrid coconuts and
associated cash crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the
importation of about 6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of
about 3,350 integrated dairy and beef operations in coconut areas; and the
strengthening of support services for crop and dairy production. The crop
component is progressing with uneven performance; rehabilitation is ahead of
schedule while replanting is considerably behind schedule. At the end of
June 1981, 9,400 farmers had received assistance to rehabilitate 8,500 ha
(117% of appraisal estimates) and replant 1,900 ha (62% of appraisal
estimates). In the future progress is projected to slow down due to the low
prices of cocoa and coconut. The dairy/beef component is about 2 years
behind schedule because of the delay in establishing a cattle holding
center. Only when the center is established, import of heifers will
commence. The first shipment will consist of heifers purchased and raised
in New Zealand for about one year.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Effective Date:  June 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project will provide assistance to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR
land settlement schemes to complete development of their holdings and to
replant or rehabilitate existing crops. About 1,800 families will be
settled to develop landholdings on the schemes. About 11,300 ha of
rubber will be planted, 5,700 ha rehabilitated and 2,800 ha replanted, and
1,200 ha of orchard rehabilitated.  With the exception of settlers' housing,
implementation of the project is behind schedule. Progress of planting and
replanting have been delayed due to insufficient supply of planting material
and delays in construction of farm roads. RISDA's extension unit has been
established but is not yet operating in the project area. TAKDIR still lacks
the necessary managerial and implementation capacity and requires considerable
strengthening.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Effective Date: June 2, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project was designed to support the expansion of Bank Pertanian
Malaysia's (BPM) portfolio of agricultural production credits, and term loans
for rural development and agricultural production; and provide assistance to
expand BPM's branch network, to improve its financial management and planning
function and to develop its staff training program. The project includes a
large credit component for smallholder loans up to 15 years, depending on
crops, at interest 1.5% above prime rate.
Loan No. 2013 FELCRA I Project; US$37.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1981;
Effective Date: March 10, 1982; Clsing Date: December 31,
1986
The project would finance the fringe area and rehabilitation scheme
elements of FELCRA's tree crop program for the Fourth Plan Period (1981-85),
extending to a total 34,000 ha. It includes the development of about 50
proposed fringe schemes and rehabilitation of about 40 existing unassisted
land development schemes and provision of two palm oil mills. Although behind
schedule, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Land develop-
ment is underway in 14 schemes, and construction of palm oil mills and
procurement of equipment for both the mills are also underway.
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in a tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers development
centers, and improvements in research and extension. All civil works have
either been completed or started and expect to be completed by end-1983,
except for the farm roads which would be completed by 1985. The pace of
agricultural development, initially slow, has now improved. The Government
has formulated an action program to accelerate the agricultural development
component. Consultants will be engaged to assist the Government in the
preparation of the Phase II of the project.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,



30-                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers' development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Problems related to land
acquisition, staffing and limited construction capability which initially
delayed implementation of civil works have been largely overcome. Most
project components should be completed by end-1983, some three years behind
schedule. Agricultural support services have been established and are
working well.
Loan No. 1444  National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems
with a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout
Malaysia; technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equip-
ment and a completed feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation
project (Loan 1957-MA). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and
work should be completed by end-1983. Of the 195 proposed schemes to be
implemented under the project, 84 schemes have been either rejected or
deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 16 new schemes have been
added. The revised number of schemes proposed under the project is now 127,
covering about 42,000 ha, all of which have been approved by the Bank for
inclusion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team. Construction of 39 schemes had been completed and 73
schemes are under construction.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of an irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. Draft agricultural
services operation and irrigation O&M manuals have been prepared. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1985, about two and a half years
behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985,
some two years behind the appraisal estimate, but those difficulties have
been largely overcome and progress is more satisfactory. Total cost of the
project is now estimated at US$115 million, up about 92% from the appraisal
level of US$60 million. The substantial cost increase was due to the high
inflation rate in the construction sector and some increase in work
quantities.
Loan No. 1717  Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date:  September 4, 1979;
(Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area,-where the storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project (Loan
434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary irri-
gation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement
of operation and maintenance facilities, and drainage and coastal protection
works serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected
by end-1985, as compared to end-1983 at appraisal. Implementation was
initially hampered by delays in land acquisition, the nationwide lack of
contractors due to the booming construction sector and the need for
retenders due to high bid prices, but these problems have been largely
overcome and implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Total project
costs have increased to US$100 million, about 45% higher than the appraisal
estimate of US$69 million.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, and Anak Endau
rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
and for housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families. The
Project Manager was appointed on December 21, 1981. Overall project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily but delay in appointing
consultants has delayed land clearing operations by up to 12 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
- 32 -
Loan 1960 Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State. It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states. The
Project Coordinator was appointed on November 16, 1981. Implementation of
the rice develpment and rehabilitation components is progressing
satisfactorily but some construction works are behind schedule due to DID
staffing constraints. Part of the treecrop development has also been
delayed by contractor and drainage problems.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date:  June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project includes seven secondary schools, one junior college,
four teacher training colleges, one polytechnic institute, and educational
radio and television facilities. Project implementation is about two and half
years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design and
tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. Construction of about 80% of project locations has
been completed, and the remaining works are expected to be completed by June
1982.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs.  The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. About 75% of the primary schools have been
completed; the remaining project items are under construction and are
expected to be completed in mid-1983. The delay is related to rural project
locations, land acquisition and shortages of building material. At
Government request, a one year extension of the closing date is planned.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                       Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
C           tional training.  Implementation performance is good (of 76 planned secondary
schools 13% have been completed an about 43% are under construction), and
overall the project is being implemented on schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of extension of the Prai Thermal Power
Station, installation of 132 kV transmission line from Majadee switching
station to Kota Tinggi, and extension of 11 kv distribution system to two
rural areas. Extension of Prai Power Station is now completed except for
the remaining retention payments. Due to savings in project cost, the loan
amount was reduced to US$32.0 million.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of construction, supply and implementation
of oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang, and supply and installa-
tion of transmission facilities. The first unit at the Pasir Gudang Thermal
Power Station was synchronized in January 1982, which was 6 months behind
schedule. The commission date for the second unit is planned for September
1982. It is planned to extend the closing date by about one year.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project consists of construction of two dams and hydroelectric
power stations in upper reaches of Perak River, supply and installation of
associated transmission and substation facilities and, energy sector
development study. Most contracts have already been awarded. The project
is behind schedule by about two months due to delays in structural



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
steelwork, however, the completion date will not be affected. A saving of
about US$8.0 million is expected in the loan amount, due to lower cost of
awarded contracts.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing
satisfactorily. Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have
created serious problems, some of which still persist. Sewerage surcharges
on water bills were instituted after considerable delays. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about three years behind the appraisal
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and
East Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region
of North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project is virtually complete except for a one mile bypass of
Batu Caves, a northern suburb of Kuala Lumpur, where construction has been
held up due to a squatter removal problem which is still unresolved. The
Government intends to complete this work later using its own funds. All
studies have been completed. After settlement of contractual claims, which
are being assessed, about US$0.5 million of the loan will remain undisbursed
and will be cancelled.



- 35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and con-
sultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
Overall, the project is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is
completed. Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one is 90%
complete and the second is 33% complete. The work on both sections has
ceased since the beginning of 1982 due to severe financial difficulties
faced by the contractor. Consequently, project completion will be delayed
by over a year. Government is considering whether to call new bids to
complete the works.
Satisfactory progress has been made with Road Upgrading Program
and in establishing the road maintenance organization in Sabah and equipment
has been procured, but execution of Road Maintenance Program is limited by
inadequate funding and Government is considering supplementary budgeting.
Setting up road maintenance sections in three pilot states in Peninsular
Malaysia has been completed. The Pavement Strengthening Program in the
three pilot states will be completed in mid-1982 and is being extended to
other states. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the
transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been completed. The
Closing Date is likely to require extension by about 18 months.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority (SPA) by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 80% completed. Traffic for 1981 was more than forecast
but SPA-s cash flow position is deteriorating because there have been no
tariff adjustments to rising costs of port operations and required port
expansion. Tariff increases have been proposed by SPA. Management
consultants completed work and submitted their draft final report in January
1982.



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Due to delays experienced during the early stages of design and
construction, the Project is now expected to be completed by December 1982,
14 months later than anticipated at the time of appraisal. Most of the
facilities, however, will be available for use by mid-1982. Construction
costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project execution,
combined with rapid inflation.
POPULATION
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for
the improvement of maternal and child health.
Implementation of this project has been slow, due partly to staff
turnovers in the implementing agencies, and to planning delays concerning
several of the larger construction facilities. As of September 30, 1981,
145 sites out of 200 facilities under the project had been acquired and 64
of these were either completed or are under construction. Progress in the
procurement, training, research, evaluation, the civil works component in
Sarawak, and women-s development program activities under the Ministry of
Agriculture are all satisfactory. The National Family Planning Board, in
collaboration with other implementing agencies, has completed the opera-
tional manual. Recently, a base-line project evaluation has been completed;
the data are being analyzed.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primar-
ily concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approa-
ches to residential development for low-income families. The main components



ANNEX II
37 -                    Page 14 of 14 pages
are: (a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced
plots for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure
services for existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support
traffic management and transport planning, to prepare an urban development
project for Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs.
The major problems encountered during project implementation,
9           besides delays in construction, were reluctance of the Government to pursue
public transport policy measures and disagreements between the Bank and the
Government relating to policy issues on the Sites and Services component.
At the time of the earlier closing date of the loan - June 30, 1981
sufficient improvements had been made in the public transport capacity and
coordination among concerned agencies, the level of staffing in the Traffic
Management Department (TMD) and in the hiring of foreign traffic consultants
to assist in the training and advising of traffic engineering problems, to
warrant an extension of the loan closing date until December 31, 1982.
Civil works and traffic control equipment for the Traffic Management
Department - City Hall are nearly complete. The inner ring road has now
been opened to traffic. The Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Stage 1 with 2 lanes)
is expected to be completed by mid-1982. At the time of the earlier closing
date, the Bank and the Government agreed to cancel the Sites and Services
component of the project.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: Two years
4
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                     NEB and consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                        January 1981
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:                August 19, 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                            April 14, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                         August 31, 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) NEB will not invest in industries more than 1% of its revalued gross
fixed assets (para. 35).
(b) NEB will (i) strengthen its planning department for rural electrifi-
cation; (ii) design and implement an information system for the
evaluation of rural electrification projects to provide feedback for
improving future planning; (iii) review design standards for rural
distribution to achieve cost reduction; and (iv) encourage the
productive uses of electricity in rural areas. NEB will prepare
detailed proposals and implementation program acceptable to the
Bank by September 1, 1982 and implement such program by September 1,
1983 (para. 58).
(c) NEB will generate the following minimum self-financing ratios: 15%
in FY82-83; 20% in FY84; 25% in FY85-86 and 30% thereafter
(para. 61).
(d) NEB will exchange views with the Bank on changes in tariff structure
(para. 60).
(e) The Government and NEB will review tariffs yearly and adjust them
as required (para. 60).



- 39 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) NEB current ratio will not be less than 1.1 at any given time
(para. 62).
(g) NEB will limit its long-term debt to 60% of the sum of its
equity and debt (para. 63).



i



_______________                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RID 16192
SO  -  759                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               1030                                    ¶0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~140    JANUARY 1982
N -                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
T H A I LAA NUC                                                                                                   POWER GRID
RISER      YLYIRE
CSTGCOSSRuCSIOIJ  OOJECT  PROJECT  TRANSMISSION LINES
4                                                                     -                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~275KV
_______                          CSE~~~~~~~35KV
V~~~~~~~~~~~-----                                                        66KV
-)                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER STATIONIS
6~~~~~         osBbar ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th-OIPJ
Al- SeorA
-t                         ~~~~~~~~~~A SUBSTATIONS
Co eCI.e,e<EUJ- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  )                                                                EL~~~SATE BOUNDARIES                  B
-~~~  e~~~~o  S                                               -.  -   I~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL ROECNDC,RIES
Koda-k                              C          251        4C          B
SA>o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ~~~~~~~~~~MILES
K~~~~- K-    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        0       2,0    40    ED    RD    IDE
KILOMETERS
GCC KE-ac        I,
K,~~~~~~~~~~~-
A~~~~~~~~~~~SJ 
M,50P4        k
½                                                          COlIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A rP 1
SeraleCa  La  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  k~,
T IDUl4ra
R- y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g, ~ ~ ~ ~       ~          T 
AN
a->
b-  b, 11,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,                                                            eea
A                                                           P-Skaq
-KILL SCIGCJIJa                        S,Iee~~~~l. aeGhaep
SeyJaSI  ,Sela Eel~~~~~~~~~~~~~K I                          E 
CCL 51>11--.  PS. 0½~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ki.N-~A
N   D  C) N   E  S  I C                               SEA,3
70001> up rIo  OLe               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SNA   R
Aoaiaal1>eolaJnale V'         IS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PJ0  114



J



