OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2146 MA
Guarantee Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2146 MA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated OW-ae        7              , 1982, between
MALAYSIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTENATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the National Electricity Board of the State of
Malaya (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to
make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-six million three hundred thousand dollars ($86,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions  Applicable   to  Loan  aid  Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guar-
antor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and


﻿-2-
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of (a) the Project, or (b) the Borrower's
development program as approved by the Guarantor, to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall review with the Borrower,
at least three months before the end of each fiscal year, with
effect from the fiscal year ending August 31, 1982, measures
necessary for the Borrower to comply with the requirements of
Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement, and thereafter promptly
permit the implementation of such measures.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor covenants: (i) that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the
Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform
such obligations; and (ii) that it will use its best efforts to
ensure that the time taken by its agencies in processing each
application made to such agencies by the Borrower for the
approval of a bid evaluation and the award of a contract for
goods or services does not exceed three months.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4-
For the Guarantor:
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:                      Telex:
TREASURY                           MA 30242
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MALAYSIA
By Iq  20.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  !day of               h198   .
FOR SECRETARY


