OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2146 MA
DOCUME NTS
Loan Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATE
OF MALAYA
Dated    Avz), 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2146 MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  OeU       ,                 , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE
STATE OF MALAYA (hereinafter called the Borrower), a public
enterprise established and operating under the laws of Malaysia.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments   of  the  Bank   being  hereinafter   called  the   General
Conditions)..
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term Guarantor means Malaysia.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-six   million   and   three   hundred    thousand   dollars
($86,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and services requ',red for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of Le Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such liter date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one million
two hundred and seventy five thousand and three hundred
sixty-nine dollars ($1,275,369). The fee shall be payable in such
currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify.    In "he event
that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw .rom the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per an-aum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate. of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-3-
administrative,   financial,  engineering   and   public  utility
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the pre-
paration of detailed designs and the supervision of the construc-
tion for carrying out of the minihydro development under Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain-records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at


﻿-4-
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine, except for reasons of national security, all plants,
installations, sites, works, buil4ings, property and equipment of
the Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
(e) Promptly after complction of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out- the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to ensure that the execution and operation of the
Project are carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological
and environmental factors, in accordance with the standards
prescribed from time to time by the Guarantor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times:
(a) maintain its corporate existence and the right to carry
on its operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and shall maintain and renew all interests in land and
other properties and take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business; and
(b) operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. In order to improve the efficiency of the
national rural electrification program, the Borrower shall carry
out the following measures:
(i) strengthen   the  rural   electrification  planning
organization;
(ii) introduce   a  management   information  system   to
assist in the evaluation of rural electrification
projects;
(iii) review its design standards for rural distribution
to achieve cost reduction; and


﻿(iv) introduce measures to encourage the productive use
of electricity in rural areas.
Such measures, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be formulated
by September 1, 1982 and implemented by September 1, 1983.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balaace sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with   appropriate auditing    principles  consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provisions will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as


﻿-7-
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) exchange views with the Bank on any proposed changes in
its tariff structure; and
(b) review with the Guarantor, at least three months before
the end of each fiscal year, with effect from the fiscal year
ending August 31, 1982, and promptly implement measures necessary
for the Borrower to comply with the requirements of Section 5.05
of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be required to
p-fbduce funds from Borrower's internal sources equivalent to not
less than 15% for fiscal years 1982 and 1983, 20% for fiscal year
1984, 25% for fiscal years 1985 and 1986 and 30% thereafter, of
the Borrower's average annual capital expenditures for elec-
tricity operations (excluding rural electrificttion) for three
years comprising the year in question, the year immediately
preceding and (on the basis of estimates acceptable to the Bank)
the next following year.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "funds from internal sources" means the dif-
ference between:
(i) the sum of gross revenues from all sources related
to electricity operations, cash consumer contri-
butions in aid of construction, and net non-
operating income but excluding external funds such
as contributions from the Guarantor for financing
capital expenditures and operating deficits; and
(ii) the sum of all expenses of operation (excluding
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
and subsidies received from the Guarantor for
losses in operation of rural and diesel stations),


﻿-8-
interest  charged   to  operations,   repayment  of
loans, cash dividends, investment in industries,
and increases in working capital.
(b) The term "annual average capital expenditures" means
one-third c the sum of all expenditures incurred during the
three fisc,. years in question on account of fixed or capital
assets, irl    i.ng interest during construction    but excluding
investment ! rural electrification programs.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if such debt would raise
the Borrower's total debt to more than sixty per cent (60%) of
the sum of its equity plus its total debt.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "total debt" includes all debt contracted
by the Borrower that matures more than       twelve
months after the date on which it is incurred, but
excludes current (payable within twelve months)
maturities on such debt; and
(ii) the term "equity" means the total paid-in capital
and surplus of the Borrower, with the exception of
the surplus derived from the revaluation of its
fixed assets.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.1 to 1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  "current assets" includes cash, accounts receiv-
able   due  within   twelve  months,   inventories,
prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next twelve months and all
other assets which could, in the ordinary course
of business, be converted within twelve months
into cash; and
(ii)  "current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income


﻿-9-
taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other liabili-
ties (including debt) which will become due and
payable, or could be called for payment, within
twelve months.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not invest in industry other than for the genera-
tion, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity *more
than an aggregate amount equivalent to one per cent (1%) of the
gross value of its fixed assets as such assets shall have been
revalued each year in accordance with methods of valuation and
revaluation acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.      For the
purposes of this Section the index to be used in such revaluation
shall be the current fixed capital formation deflator used each
year in the Borrower's national accounts, using fiscal year 1970
as the base year.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any loan or credit to the Borrower shall have become
due and payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the
terms thereof, or any security constituted thereunder shall have
become enforceable.
(b) The Electricity Act, 1949, as amended, or any provision
thereof, shall have been further amended or suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
operations or the condition of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section .6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date         //4 /983, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section Y2.04 o  the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
National Electricity Board
of the State of Malaya
P.O. Box 1003
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:                     Telex:
TRANG                              MA 30426
Kuala Lumpur


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATE
OF MALAYA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              69,000,000         100% of foreign
materials                                     expenditures,
70% of local
expenditures
off-the-shelf,
and 100% of.
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(2) Consultants'                2,000,000         100% of foreign
Services                                     expenditures
(3) Fee                         1,275,369         Amount due
(4) Unallocated                14,024,631
TOTAL          $86,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿13 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan, then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy *of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower in extending supply of
electricity in rural areas in the Guarantor's States of
Trengganu, Kelantan, Kedah, Johore and Pahang and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Transmission and Sub-station facilities
The construction, installation and placing into operation of
the following:
(i) 275 kV transmission line between Kenyir in Trengganu
and Tanah Merah in Kelantan; and
(ii) about 120 km of 132 kv transmission lines and asso-
ciated step-down sub-stations.
Part B:   Rural Electrification
Carrying out of a program to supply electricity to rural
areas in the States of Kedah, Kelantan, Pahang and Trengganu,
including the supply and installation of transmission lines,
cables, transformers, meters, switchgear, distribution panels and
sub-station facilities required for the program.
Part C:   Minihydro Installation
The construction, equipping and placing into operation of
minihydro electrical stations in the States of Trengganu,
Kelantan, Pahang and Johore which are both technically feasible
and economically justified on the basis of selection criteria
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Formulation and implementation of appropriate measures to
strengthen the national rural electrification development pro-
gram.


﻿- 15 -
Part E:
Consultancy services related to the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1986
through   February 1, 1997                 3,595,000
On August 1, 1997                                3,615,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                           2.30%
before maturity
More than three years but                           4.65%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             8.50%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                         10.05%
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                           11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and services to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation sh-ll be included.


﻿-19-
5.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malaysia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluetion, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following ': ree groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering      goods manufactured    in
Malaysia if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 20 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and services
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and.
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 21 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bcrrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of      ' ,198 a.
FOR SECR TARY


