1                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Docmt  -of
The World Bank
FOR OMcIAL USE ONLY
RePort Ne. P-4162-GUI
_ .
1                                      REPORT AND RECOXMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 22.9 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
*.                                   STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Januarv 21, 1986
db imbo a ricsd dIslbsdo. md Sy e sed by re-Vients only in the pefotae of
gdar dutn  s dcant  -y ao oDtewie be dbded without Wedi Bank  *orikrmz.



3REN! ELY BVMRfE
Crmwcy Unit  -  Cuinean Frn (EC)
Us$1               R Et 300 a/
-1,a0o0            US$3.33-
eights and.deasures: Metric System
AHBREVLA.I:cS A?iD AMSYN6
Af DF    -   African Development rxd
ALUDIA   -   NatiLal Snterprise for Discributim of Cereals
1 EEDOR  -   Joint Venture Diamod and Gold Ccmparty (ItC immscmeat)
BCi NG  -   Central Bank
BrTA    -   Banx  lnternatizxale pour l'Afrique. Gainfe
BtI-    -   Banque Internacioxle pou 1' neustrie et poar le Ccmrce, Ca4ne,
CBG     -   Comapare des Baies de Guin6e (bandte caweLy)
CCXE    -   rC      Cw=amle de Coopration, coazmique (French aid agency)
C:EF    -   FEO;.r and Finacal Coordinating CamiLr          ',
02A    -   Gene=l Commssirm for Adzdntrative Reform
O7w     -   National PdblIc Procuret Cc.ssiai
DM'   -   Pt6lic UtiLity Water COR=W
EE      -   ape  E m   C
EF=K -   Prefectoral Agency for Agricltural Produce Nzieting
FAPA    -   Fere Ag4-Pastorale d'Arrodissemt (I)lstric ColectiVe Fadn
F!I     -   Foods d'Aide et de Coophation. (French tecmiil assitane agenmY)
ERIMII  -   A 1imdna snttn  Cay
HAMW    -   Ehruey Alxmfxm Cbapa  (ny   eriakal bauxite compaaies, partners in CBG)
-   Goveret Import MopDly (abolished April 1984)
14DI    -   MIistry of Indstrial Detwlppmt
MDR     -   MiEcstry of Ruml Developmen
MEF     -   Iinlstrv of E!r    and Finance
MN      -   Mnistry of %ntional Educationl
MEPRA   -   Ministry of Civil Service and AkdnistatiVe Reform
MPCI    -   Minstry of Planning and International Cooperation
-   Ministry of Planning andl Natural Resources (before Dezr 22. 1985)
-   mfxtr of Natural ResPnes, Energy and the EFvirormit (after Decedber 22, 1985)
IPAS  -   vInistry of public usalth, Population and Social Affairs
-   Office des EaRites de Kindia (State enterpris baL=te mine)
OEM  -   Orgazi=im for E=mAnc Coopeaticn and Fuhiing (Japan)
COBH    -   Natal Hydrocarbons Can:iany (petrole= products import aid distributicn)
,  P F   -   State entrpi-se responsible fcr Prodxct Erporms (coffee ard palm Kernes)
SSEC    -   secetariat of State for Cannrc in  EF
SFA     -   Special Facility for Sd-Saharn Africa
ic SGC  -   Socit  Gtaienne de Camerre (Joirnt venture trading cmpanv)
|SGF    -   Special Jo      F ing-
MSE     -   Scirfte Natioale d'Electricit     lic  P         l)
SEE      -   Secretariat of State for Ey
SEr     -   Secretariat of State for Transport                                                        V
SP-OF    -   Special Project Preparatian Facility
TWDP    -   United Nations Developnt Program
C:1VER: rIscE 'EAR
Jaumxy 1 - Deceaber 31
a/      The currenc  uit gas dianged frnm the Cuinean syli to the Gunemr franc starting On
Jany 6, 1986. The exhange rate of iG 300C=US applies to all extemnal trsactian
of the prblic sector and the mining copaies as of Jan. 6. 1986. A narkEt deterclned
rate (through weeklv aucticu) wiLl apply to all private transactions before end-Janiary.
For purposes of ecuxuc pojectons, a rate of R;35=L7SS1 is employed. The official
exge rate at appraisal i   arch 1985 ;as SS-24.4 svlis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Guinea.
Credit Amounts
IDA:                       SDR 22.9 million (US$25.0 million equivalent),
African Facility           SDR 15.6 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Cofinanciers:  SJF: Federal Republic of Germany: D23 million (US$9.4
million equivalent)
SJF: Japan: Yen 5,600 million (US$27.8 million equivalent)
Switzerland: SF10 million (US$4.8 million equivalent)
France: FF200 million (US$26.7 million equivalent)
Additional financing will be requested from USA.
Including the IMF Stand-by Arrangement of US$36.3 million
equivalent, the confirmed financing package totals US$147.0
million.
Pmoject      The prposed IDA Credit and Special Aficka Facility Cedit vould provide
D            Icpt-   S$42 ifilllcm to suport the Governmt's eoixzic reovery pogrnm arl allN
eaiul  activity to e*pand '.tile mrrent and future refom measures are
mplemnzted. Ihe adjustment progranm foazssm on ecwndc lfxerliatizn
|  _es amd reefom of public   dhfstratimn and public ntrprises. The
policy packa  inlnudes full decontrol of agricltural prlces,  ipfcatiton
of tariffs and custms procedLres, streanmlining of n-fkit[ifs for in stnnt
an cauneral activities, elecialy for ±iral, mdling  d petrolem
operatons, and a compe  overhml of the bankng sector. The publ$c
i' ad=istratinn is to be reorgadzed and reduce by around 25,000 staff (soDe
30 percnt) oxe the net 14 nutsafter a cavensive cesu. testing and
ratisnlizatcin p,ess. TSe Goenmt has ldied an aiot1sm pogram to
*                          restructur the public iodustrl sector by privatizatfoo and liquidation:
*  -                       Iniafal investor zreatimbas been c            -AgMg.  ron-stia public
cmVamies, thed activitis nw largely undertaken by Gdaea traders aid
sgal-scale compes, will be clsed dmon  WMt the suport of Prance, the
; *                   I  and MA, ecamdc m        t is beiXng strezgtbeoed to carry ott the
Prgram and to iqproe  fiscal and monetary policy, public investmet
pv    Dexternal debt  _ ts and ecownoic data collcion ani use.
Estimated    The Credits would be disurse in two trawrhes, the sec=d of USS17 mdllorn
equivalent following a performance review in mid-1986. Estivated period of
disbirsezents: Mrdi 1986-January 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I-
tegefir aed  7he =:!n boafir are: laing the basis for Gtnea's grc6-h in rhe mdixt=-rzm
lis:         by rtevtz  prim and ez&aste rate distortin5s, and creatrn  tle legal and
1nst1tlnnti fraerk w.thn  h-tich private imstmesC and productica can
ta,m place, by rearleting eccrc activ-ty into the private sertor. Th:e
are twdn ris    ad-Astrmative and polftical. The lack of sa:d eccadc
ag    In the  iem aa a    has beEi raai nto accct by
dmsti   a PIo, based  dcL deitro1 and Ilibeteazt      in %ch the St.te               ,
,s dwsei a liwtsi role for itself i the prodc3ive sectors. The adns;ra-
tfca Is being mVported by           exbm=3 tecbrical assistab:w the
d- lxl Pqmec ta dEelpg Nfnn -kfll  iD Inte core eoad  manag
== mfidstzdm and at the Central Bmk Is encouraging. 7he political risk 
wlot n   db3e- as rawA of distortions wil Inevitably nr  cotw to s
emaces c s. g, and the ptublk sector mticlizaticiptm will
a PO weq%1cM= and the poteatiaL for urban unrest in the AeIcate early
miths  of rF. 7T&  Coe Gxmetbat has i=ntoduace copemsatozy mesures to
alleiate the ipct of price Inesses and civil sevice slary reutl=
aid the pro    is; designd to re&   A&nistative imtervewidi In its
emxI     Neverthless, carrybg out the prcgr   plies some risk for die
uth ,tie, and determ1nie  will be needed for the progr  to succeed-
Map:TRD 19469
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I! 



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 22.9 MILLION
AND A SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTXENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit for SDR 22.9 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) and a
proposed Credit of SDR 15.6 million (US$17 million equivalent) from the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA), established by resolution
number IDA85-1 of May 21, 1985, on standard IDA terms to the Republic of
Guinea to support the 1986 phase of the Government's structural adjustment
program. Financing would also be provided by Japan and the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany from Special Joint Financing (SJF) in amounts of US$27.8
million equivalent and US$9.4 million equivalent, respectively. Additional
bilateral financing linked to the structural adjustment program would be
provided by France and Switzerland in amounts of FF200 million (US$26.7
million equivalent) and SF10 million (US$4.8 million equivalent),
respectively. The Government of Guinea has also requested additional
financing from the United States.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1984. This section summarizes and updates its contents,
focusing on changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent
years. Economic data appear in Annex 6.
3.        The death of President Sekou Toure in late March, 1984, and the
subsequent assumption of power by a group of military officers largely
unknown to the outside world marked the end of a political era and Guinea's
first twenty five years of independence.  A quarter century of mismanage-
ment had brought Guinea to the brink of economic collapse, despite the
country's important agricultural, mineral and energy resources. The
present Govefnment has demonstrated its determination to reverse the
country's poor economic performance and to set the economy on a new path
towards realizing its full development potential. It has appealed to the
international community to support it in this formidable task.
Overview of the Economy
4.        The failing performance of the Guinean economv over the past
twenty five vears was interrupted only in 1973-76, when the economy was
briefly stimulated by expanding bauxite operations. Outside this period,
economic growth has consistently remained below the rate of population
increase of nearly 3 percent per annum. In the five-year period up through



Guinea's 5.9 million inhabitants today live at the margin of poverty. With
an average per capita income of about US$300 in 1984 at the then official
exchange rate, Guinea is among the least developed countries as classified
by the United Nations. Living standards are reflected in key social
indicators: life expectancy is 37 years, infant mortality is about 16
percent, more than 80 percent of the population lacks access to safe water
and, similarly, 80 percent of the population is illiterate.
5.        The economy is severely dualistic as between the official and
non-official sectors. The former, which accounts for about one-quarter of
GDP, functioned until recently through an elaborate system of administered
prices linked to a highly overvalued Guinean syli (25 sylis to the US
dollar at end-1985, compared with about 400 sylis/US dollar on the parallel
market). It employed some 90,000 civil servants and parastatal staff as of
late 1985 - an inflated public service, yet less than 2 percent of the
country's total popularion. Their renumeration included official rations,
notably of rice at 15-25 percent of its market price. The other three
quarters of the economy's net output is accounted for by an active
non-official sector operating on an open black market. This market has in
recent years met about 80 percent of urban consumer demand and virtually
all demand for marketed consumer goods outside Conakry, the capital. The
parallel market is supplied largely by smuggled or pilfered imports. It
has expanded as the volume of rice and goods such as motor fuel and tex-
tiles imported through official channels has been insufficient to supply
the majority of the population; sugar and cooking oil have in fact been
only intermittently available in official markets to the urban msses.
6.        Most of the Guinean economy produces at levels well below poten-
tial due to inadequate price and exchange rate policies and other incen-
tives. This is particularly true of agriculture, the mainstay of the
economy, accounting for over 40 percent of GDP and supporting the liveli-
hood of 80 percent of the population. Food crop production has not kept
pace with population growth, and cash crop production (pineapples and other
tropical fruits, coffee and grounduuts) has declined dramatically as lack
of price incentives has driven many smallholders to subsistence farming;
others export clandestinely. Animal husbandrv is a major activity through-
out the rural sector, though officially imposed marketing policies resulted
in most of Guinea's herd being marketed in neighboring countries.
Exploitation of industrial fisheries resources is less than 10 percent of
an estimated production potential of 200,000 tpy. Guinea's commercially
exploitable forestry resources have been severely reduced by indiscriminate
logging for sales in Liberia and the Ivory Coast.
7.        Mining and other secondary sectors.  With the decline of its
agricultural exports, Guinea is all but exclusively dependent on bauxite
and alumina for its export earnings. Although demand in international
bauxite markets has stagnated since the late 1970s, Guinea's wealth of
other mineral resources, as yet unexploited, represents a major element of
the country's long term development potential. Outside of mining, secon-
dary activity suffers much the same impediments to growth which permeate
the economy as a whole. The manufacturing sector, mainly state owned,
consists of agro-industries and producers of construction materials,
chemical products and textiles. It has operated in recent years at only
about 15 percent of capacity, however, and contributed a mere 2 percent of



GDP. It suffers from poor management, lack of imported spare parts and raw
materials, inadequate maintenance of equipment and irregular electricity
supply as well as from excessive interference of the Government in manage-
ment and from a lack of proper worker incentives.
8.        Major tertiary activities have long been dominated at least
nominally by Government monopolies, although in practice the private sector
has emerged in some cases to assume a leading role. Freight transport is
an important example. A serious lack of reliable transport services
between the interior and the coast nonetheless remains one of the most
severe obstacles to the country's development. In trade and commerce,
state monopolies were abolished by the new Government in 1984 after they
had been severely undermined by the operations of the private sector on the
parallel market. The major case was that of IMPORTEX, a state trading
monopoly formerly charged with the importation of basic foodstuffs and
other essential commodities.
9.        The banking sector was until late 1985 entirely state-owned apart
from one small private operation. The designated functions of the banks
were essentially those normally performed by departments of the central
bank. All six of the state banks were in practice non-functional due to
declining assets and illiquidity and suffered from poor accounting
practices and gross overstaffing, and all have been replaced by new banks
established with foreign partners (para. 36).
10.       The lack of producer incentives and the institutional rigidities
which have long characterized the Guinean economy have resulted in rates of
investment which are comparatively low, despite Guinea's abundant natural
resource base. Outside the mining enclave, new investment has been under-
taken primarilv by the public sector, whose rate of investment averaged
only about 10 percent of GDP over the past decade. Although a doubled rate
of public investment had been envisaged under the 1981-85 plan, actual
investment up through 1984 averaged only US$200 million annually in current
terms, about the same proportion of GDP as in the previous plan exercise
(1973-78). Many of the originally proposed projects, largely favoring
collectivized agriculture and industry, remain in preliminary stages of
preparation and their financing appears unlikely. The Government is
reassessing project priorities and, pending the outcome of this assessment,
is limiting new investment to on-going projects of established
justification.
The Current Financial Crisis
11.       The poor growth performance of the Guinean economy is reflected
in external and domestic deficits which over the past five years have
widened to proportions now demanding major adjustment.
12.       The Government's financial situation has been seriously eroded
since 1980, when it was in approximate equilibrium. The erosion is attrib-
utable chieflv to poor performance in the parastatal sector. Tax and
custom dutv receipts from enterprises on food and services in particular,
have declined as the private sector has grown to dominate consumer trade.
Similarly, non-tax revenue in the form of transfers from the parastatals to
the capital budget have dropped sharply, this due largely to reduced



- 4 -
profits and the closure of INPORTEX. Government revenue has consequently
stagnated in nominal terms at a level of GS 10-11 billion annually in all
but one year over the period 1980-84 and declined to GS 9 billion in 1985.
At the same time, budgetary transfers to support the enterprises have
constituted a massive drain on Government resources, these transfers having
represented 30-40 percent of receipts in recent years. Even with drastic
reductions in subsidies to public enterprises in 1984, the Government was
unable to realize any savings towards financing new investment, and its
overall budgetary situation deteriorated further in 1985. Monetary
financing of the public deficit has fueled Guinea's relatively high rate of
inflation and the serious overvaluation of the national currency.
13.       On external account, relatively stable export earnings from
bauxite and alumina, coupled with restricted official imports and limited
access to foreign exchange, have consistently enabled Guinea to realize a
trade surplus as officially recorded. These surpluses have been more than
offset, however, by rising net service payments and private transfers
abroad. Net capital inflows have not been sufficient to offset the
resulting current account deficits. An important factor is heavy capital
flight from the country, the magnitude of which is unrecorded. Guinea has
consequently suffered continual increases in its net foreign liabilities
since 1979, its net reserve position having plunged to a negative US$205
million as of end-1984. In addition, Guinea has incurred a massive
accumulation of external debt arrears. At US$223 million as of end-1984,
these arrears represented more than 40 percent of recorded export earnings
for the year. It is however to be emphasized that Guinea's external
transactions are only partially captured in official statistics.
14.       Guinea's accumulation of foreign debt, largely to finance invest-
ment in infrastructure and public enterprises, has resulted in foreign
payments obligations which are clearly excessive in relation to the coun-
try's debt servicing capacity. Outstanding public external debt had
reached US$1.6 billion as of the end of 1984, of which 75 percent was
disbursed. Service obligations on this debt are projected to average
US$132 million per annum in 1985-87, as against average annual payments of
only US$83 million in the 1982-84 period. In 1984, the ratio of scheduled
service obligations to officially recorded export earnings was 34 percent,
whereas actual service payments amounted to only 20 percent. In addition,
scheduled debt service on private non-guaranteed debt of an estimated
US$180 million outstanding represented a further 11 percent of 1984 export
earnings. It is evident that Guinea's already heavy payments arrears will
continue to rise subsEantially in the absence of a major, across-the-board
debt rescheduling. The Government therefore intends to request renegotia-
tion of its debt with all principal creditors, beginning with the Paris
Club, tentatively in March 1986, once a proposed IMF Stand-by arrangement
is in place.
Longer-Term Development Potential
15.       Its current economic and financial crisis notwithstanding,
Guinea's development potential is indisputable. Its varied climatic zones
and topography make it well-favored to approach food self-sufficiency and
to generate substantial agricultural exports given the right policy envi-
ronment. Its massive deposits of bauxite and iron ore are well known, and



- 5 -
there appears to be considerable potential for the exploitation of other
minerals ranging from gold and diamonds to uranium and phosphates. Foreign
investors have expressed renewed interest in the mining sector as well as
in the industrial sector. Indeed, the domestic market for light manufac-
tures remains largely untapped. Guinea's considerable energy resources are
similarly underexploited: less than one percent of the country's estimated
30,000 Gwh/year hydroelectric potential has been realized owing to the
previous regime's preoccupation with the massive Konkoure dam over other
priority dam sites in the coastal region.
16.       The development of these agricultural, mineral and energy re-
sources and industrial potential will require substantial technical and
financial assistance from abroad. It will also require drastic changes in
the policy framework in which the economy operates. The Government has
already embarked upon an economic reform program which addresses a wide
range of issues throughout the economy.
Policy Priorities
17.       There are four main development priorities.  First, the Govern-
ment must resolve the exchange rate issue, which would permit the removal
of the price distortions and the unification of the official and parallel
economies. An essential prerequisite for monetary reform, a well
functioning banking svstem, is in the process of being established.
Exchange rate adjustment, and the monetary reform were agreed with the IMF
in September 1985. These and other issues, addressed in the context of a
proposed 1986 Stand-by arrangement, were further refined in discussions
held in December 1985 and are discussed below. Second, the Government
should take further measures for improving the capacity and performance of
the transport, power and water supply sectors, as well as social services,
especially education and, later, health. Third, the environment for
private sector development needs to be established. Fourth, export
earnings must be boosted by diversification out of bauxite, and rice
imports cut bv augmented domestic production.
PART TI -- THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
18.       The main immediate objectives for economic reform are to: (i)
correct the serious overvaluation of the national currency, which would
bring into line official and parallel market prices; (ii) decontrol
prices; (iii) liberalize and privatize internal and external trade; (iv)
create the environment and adequate incentives for smallholders production;
(v) gradually reduce balance of payments deficits through export promotion,
reintegration of exports into official channels, and reduction of food
imports; (vi) eliminate heavy losses in the parastatal sector by leaving
commercial, transport and industrial activities to the private sector and
putting the "natural monopolies" on a sound management and financial
footing; (vii) orient public investments towards supporting the directly
productive sectors; and (viii) increase the level of savings in the econo-
my. These objectives, calling in general for a far-reaching liberalization
and decontrol of economic activity, would be supported bv institutional
reforms to improve macroeconomic management. In line with these objec-
tives, the Government and the Association have identified the following



actions which have been or need to be taken to improve economic perfor-
mance.
The Government's Initial Policy Response
19.       Acknowledging the bleak economic situation it inherited, the new
Government took some very early steps in these directions. All internal
barriers to the movement of goods, and compulsory sales by farmers to the
state were abolished in May 1984, as were the ENCOBEs (state cattle-trading
companies) and the FAPAs (state agro-pastoral farms). A new investment
code was enacted in October 1984, and a new banking law in March 1985.
With IMPORTEX abolished, the private sector, in the 18 months since the
change of Government, has become primarily responsible for the importation
of all commodities except rice and petroleum products. The Government has
also promulgated a new Commercial Law governing all trading activities.
These initial steps demonstrated the Government's intention to rely in-
creasingly on private sector initiative in all activities. Under the new
regulations the private sector has access to all activities previously
under the monopoly of state-owned enterprises.
The Need for Further Reforms and Structural Adjustment
20.       The rehabilitation of the Guinean economy will take several
years, and three distinct phases can be identified.   In Phase I, already
underway, the major policy reform is the devaluation agreed with the Fund,
with a floating exchange rate to follow an approximately twelve-fold
devaluation and accompanied by a range of monetary and fiscal measures.
The main supporting elements of this reform program are: (i) increase in
the prices of rice and petroleum products to reflect prices on the
international market at the new exchange rate; (ii) a multilateral debt
rescheduling planned to take place by April 1986 and strict control of
credit and the money supply; (iii) measures to increase tax collection and
to control public expenditure through reduced transfers to public
enterprises and reduced public sector employment; (iv) a core public
investment program to rehabilitate and complete ongoing projects with
assured viability and economic returns; (v) a new investment code and
other fiscal and administrative measures to encourage private investment
without Government guarantees or participation; (vi) reform of tariffs and
import/export procedures; and (vii) the opening of new, privately-managed
commercial banks to replace the former Government banks, which are being
liquidated.
21.       Phase II of the rehabilitation effort (during 1986) would contin-
ue the reorientation of the economy to the new exchange rate and pricing
system, through removing the administrative and pricing obstacles to
economic growth by the private sector. Its success depends on: (i) the
monetary adjustment and floating exchange rate; removing distortions
throughout the economy and creating an incentive environment by maintaining
price flexibility; (ii) progressive liberalization of the productive
sectors, largely through rapid withdrawal of Government involvement and
intervention, decontrol and encouragement of competition; (iii)
establishment of institutions to support this process -- a viable and
efficient banking system, in particular; and (iv) improving public sector
economic performance.



22.       A critical factor in the second phase will be the ability of the
Government to have control over its credit and monetary policy. To
strengthen the Central Bank's ability to formulate a coherent credit and
monetary policy based on better statistical information, the Central Bank
has been totally reorganized, given traditional status as a monetary
authority, and reinforced by five experts provided with assistance from the
IMF and the Bank of France. It has introduced a new accounting system and
established means of controlling the accounts of the Treasury at the
Central Bank.
23.       Growth in tthe private agricultural, services, and manufacturing
sectors as incentive structures take hold would mitigate some of the
effects of the deliberate shrinkage in public sector employment (para. 57).
Public investment, as defined in sectoral strategies and promoted in a
Consultative Group process, would be oriented to rehabilitation and renova-
tion of infrastructure, and complementary institutional development, to
support private sector growth. Strengthened banking institutions would
play an expanded role in liberalizing trade and investment.
24.       In Phase III, in the late 1980s, the private sector would play
the major role in employment creation following public sector rationaliza-
tion, the firm reestablishment of financial sector institutions, and the
expansion of smallholders agriculture and consumer demand. New or rehabil-
itated physical and social infrastructure should support this growth, and
limited borrowing at commercial terms could be envisaged during the 1990s.
Reflecting recent undertakings by the French authorities, and following
agreement with France and its African neighbors, Guinea's return to the
Franc Zone could be contemp±ated, thus further stimulating capital flows.
The timing and duration of Phase III, and the content of further policy
measures, will depend on the success of the Second Phase, during 1986.
The 1986 Program
25.       Exchange Rate Adjustment.  Inflationary monetary and fiscal
policies pursued over nearly two decades have led to serious price/cost
distortions, declines in rural production and the emergence of a dual
economy whose benefits accrue largely to neighboring countries. Prior to
the reforms, the public sector and a small number of private clients bought
foreign exchange at the official rate of 24 sylis to the dollar, while the
dollar was traded by most of the private sector on the parallel market, at
370 to 400 sylis to the dollar as of December 1985. In order to unify
graduallv the exchange rate and to enable the private sector to compete
with the public sector on the basis of a unified rate, an exchange rate
adjustment is being carried out in five steps. In a first step, to control
illicit and uneconomic transactions by those with access to the official
rate, most foreign currency transactions, including letters of credit and
purchase of airline tickets and other transfers were suspended from
September 11, 1985. Second, on October 7, 1985 the Central Bank opened at
BIAG, one of the new commercial banks, a second window for the purchase of
foreign currency (transfers of Guineans working abroad, local currency
expenditures of embassies and international organizations, receipts of
exports outside the mining sector, foreign investments and receipts from
travel and tourism). The rate for these transactions was set at 36 sylis to
the French franc (288 syli/US$j. In a third step, on January 6. 1986, the



- 8 -
Guirean Franc was introduced at par with the syli and the first window
rate, applicable to all public sector transactions as well as the mining
companies, was set at FG300/US$. At the same time, the second window rate
was increased to FG340=UIS$. Fourth, the second window rate will be
determined at weekly auctions open to all purchasers and sellers of foreign
exchange, excluding those agents operating at the first window rate, before
end-January. Fifth, the Government has agreed with the DMF to unify the
two rates by March 31, 1986, at the latest. On January 6, 1986 the price
of imported rice and the base pump price of motor fuel, diesel and kerosene
were increased to FG80/kg and FG115/litre, respectively, reflecting
international prices at the new exchange rate. These rice and petroleum
product prices will be reviewed and adjusted quarterly.
26.       The agricultural sector.  The agricultural sector is the key to
Guinea's recovery in the short term and to efforts to stimulate production
by the private sector. The principal objective in the agricultural sector
is to boost production of foodstuffs and export commodities through the
elimination of producer price controls. The Government considers that
recovery in agricultural production, attainment of food self-sufficiency
and diversification of exports all depend on smallholders. The Government
also acknowledges that policy changes are required to restore producer
incentives, improve the provision of consumer goods and agricultural inputs
and modify the institutional environment. Food crop prices are being
decontrolled and obligatory state marketing abolished. To further stimu-
late Guinea's agricultural recovery, the following measures are to be
*indertaken.
27.       Rice.  Despite decontrol of prices and marketing, Conakry will
continue to be supplied mainly with imported rice for the next two to three
years. The pricing of imported rice has proved to be a verv sensitive
issue. But to encourage domestic production and to ensure that the price
reflects import costs at the new exchange rate, the authorities abolished
the ration card system on December 22, 1985 (which was ineffective at
guaranteeing rice supply to urban consumers at the official 20 sylis/kg)
and increased the price of officially traded imported rice to FG80/kg
(FG4,000 per 50 kg bag), with effect from January 6, 1986. At an exchange
rate of FG 300 per US dollar, this represents an import parity price with a
small margin for handling and wholesale storage. This is expected to
result in a retail price for smaller quantities of about FG85-90/kg. The
social impact of this change is discussed below (para. 56). The quarterly
review of the price of imported rice 'para. 25) would be designed to ensure
that imported rice is sold at prices that reflect international prices and
the floating exchange rate, and thus does not unfairly compete with
domestic production. The latter enjoys an observed quality premium of
about 20 percent over imported rice, and sold for 120-150 sylis per
kilogram in the free market in September 1985. The Government has reviewed
the current supplv of imported rice (about 90,000 tons in total in 1985),
including PL480 food aid and commercial purchases. Tmport levels are more
than adequate to ensure supply to the population in Conakry, maintain
stocks to deter commercial speculation, and encourage the marketing of the
bumper 1985 crop. Local production is sufficient to supply the interior of
the country. The authorities have accepted the decontrol of the price of
rice (and other food crops) at the producer level, and in any event lack
the financial means to support crop prices or other interventions in crop



- 9 -
marketing. The Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex 5)
provides for full decontrol of producer prices of food crops. Following
the January 6, 1986 price increase, the private sector is expected to show
interest in importing rice, and will be permitted to import freely.
ALIMAG, the public marketing agency, was abolished and its functions will
gradually be taken over by the private sector. For food aid and for
storage and distribution of public stocks at the wholesale level, the
Government intends to rely on SGC, a joint venture trading company estab-
lished with CCCE assistance in August 1985. SGC has taken charge of three
ALIMAG warehouses and should be abla to introduce greater efficiency in
rice distribution.  SGC would be allowed to operate in parallel with the
private sector. As a condition for Second Tranche release, the Government
will review these distribution and stocking arrangements with IDA, and
modify them as appropriate.  The Government will also review the wholesale
price of imported rice at least quarterly, and prior to Second Tranche
release, announce and implement the results of the review made during the
second quarter of 1986.
28.       Export crops:  coffee and palm kernels.  Official exports of
coffee and palm kernels were 450 and 1,200 tons, respectively, in 1984. It
is estimated that 2,000-3,000 tons of coffee per annum have been smuggled
across the border where prices have been more attractive. Once the
official producer prices are abolished, it will be possible to recapture
into official channels part of the illegal exports. While the private
sector should be allowed to export coffee, PROSECO (the state-owned
enterprise trading coffee and palm kernels) could continue playing an
important role in coffee marketing since it already possesses the knowledge
to ensure quality control and negotiate contracts. The Government
undertook to set the price at which PROSECO buys coffee and palm kernels at
not less than 80 percent of the FOB export price. On December 16, 1985,
the Ministry of Commerce announced that the price at which PROSECO would
buy coffee and palm kernels had been set at FG 500/kg and FG 100/kg
respectively. Prices received by producers are likely to be FG 400/kg for
coffee and FG 60/kg for palm kernels, which represent highly renumerative
levels. Producers whose coffee has been marketed in Liberia by private
traders for example have been receiving 300 FG/kg equivalent. The
Government would review the adequacy of these prices annually and adjust
PROSECO prices, as necessary, no later than November 1st of each year,
prior to the planting season. As a condition for Second Tranche release,
the Government will have completed the first review of PROSECO prices by
June 30, 1986.
29.       Agricultural inputs.  A state-owned enterprise -- SEMAPE -- is in
charge of importing and distributing agricultural inputs; its performance
has been disappointing. SEMAPS has 10,000-15,000 tons of fertilizer
storage capacity but no distribution network in the countryside.  With the
assistance of external donors, the Government is working toward putting in
place a supply and distribution system based on the private sector. To do
so the Government recognizes, and has agreed, that input prices at the farm
level should fully reflect the cost of purchase (or in the case of seeds,
of production), storage and distribution. At a Conakry price for imported
rice of FG80/kg, and taking into account the consumer preference for
locally grown rice, farmers should be able to meet the full cost of
fertilizer. The Ministrv of Rural Development is preparing a suitable



- 1n -
procedure for monitoring fertilizer use and will implement it once it is
agreed with IDA. Before June 30, 1986, an action program would be prepared
to ensure adequate supply and timelv distribution of agricultural inputs
for the 1986/87 season.
Creating a Liberalized Economic Environment
30.       Tariff/tax reform.  The present system of customs taxation
incorporates a total of seven duties/taxes applicable to all imported
products and one tax applied on five categories of products.  Tn addition
to the multitude of taxes applied on imports, there are total exemptions
from duty for a range of products and special regimes applied to the mining
companies, resulting in a system which is complicated, inefficient and
largely unworkable. Nominal tariff rates range from 0 to over 500 percent.
The design of the new tariff regime is based on four principles: (i)
changes should be simple so as to render the system operational in a short
time; (ii) the average effective rate should be reduced to offset the
sizeable increase in the tax base after the devaluation and to induce
illegal imports, which currently escape all taxation, to go through
official channels; (iii) it should provide a moderate, uniform pattern of
effective protection, thus removing distortions in incentives which
prevailed under the previous system of protection and; (iv) revenue should
increase in proportion to expected increases in expenditure.
31.       Accordingly, the Government will institute a relatively uniform
tariff structure, with much reduced nominal rates, to take effect by the
start of the foreign exchange auction system. Under the new tariff
structure, the customs tax ("droit de douane") and the fiscal tax ("droit
fiscal") are reduced to a combined 10 percent rate on all products except
(i) rice, which will be duty free; and (ii) essential food items (including
edible oils, wheat flour, sugar, meat and fish), pharmaceutical products,
fertilizer and pesticides (5 percent). A surtax of 20 percent will be
applied to luxury goods, including tobacco and most consumer durables. A
surtax of 30 percent will be levied on super luxury items and/or products
which are heavy energy consumers. This category includes alcoholic
beverages, jewelry, vehicles other than those used for freight transport or
public transport, air conditioning equipment and television sets. The same
rates of taxation will apply to locally-produced goods of these categories.
In addition, the turnover tax will be reduced to a rate of 2 percent for
both imports and domestic production; it may be increased up to 5 percent
depending on the Government's budgetarv needs. The new tariff/tax system
is expected to have a favorable net effect on Government revenue due to
improved collection, its reduced nominal rates notwithstanding. The
appropriateness of these arrangements and the efficiency of customs proce-
dures will be reviewed with the Association not later than November 15,
1986. In addition to taking the above measures, the Government is holding
special discussions with the mining companies to renegotiate the regime
governing their imports.
32.       Import/Export Procedures.  The import declaration scheme, as a
whole, will be simplified by the start of the foreign exchange auctions
along the lines of the existing procedures for "licence sans reglement
financier" -- that is, imposing no restrictions on imports. Licenses will
be abolished and replaced by a simple declaration issued by the importers'



- 11 -
commercial bank at the time of application for foreign exchange through the
auction system. This simple declaration will also apply to importers using
their own foreign exchange, i.e., not participating in the auction system.
This system would lead to the determination of the composition and volume
of imports through the foreign exchange, rather than the license allocation
system, which will be more efficient assuming the auction system functions
properly.
33.       Codes and Laws.  In order to create a secure environment for
investment and production decisions, the Government has decided to estab-
lish consistency between the different codes and laws under preparation or
already enacted. Revisions are being made to the first version of the
Investment Code, promulgated in October 1984, in order, in particular, to
introduce economic criteria in the choice of investments and to remove
disincentives for private investment. Implementation experience to date
has been disappointing, with only five new investments under the provisions
of the 1984 Investment Code, and continued complaints about the
administrative delays and inconvenience of the procedures of the Investment
Commission, the body which recommends investors for access to the Code's
benefits. It will be important to ensure the consistency of the Code,
which should be the general reference document, including on all procedures
of implementation, not only with the Government's development policy but
also with the mining and petroleum codes, commercial law, banking law and
the new fishing code. The Government will promulgate the revised
Investment Code, along with procedures for improving the operations of the
Investment Commission, before the release of the Second Tranche. The
Government would also revise the Commercial Law, after consultation with IDA,
before the release of the Second Tranche, to remove certain restrictive
features which are inhibiting trade.
The Banking System
34.       The ability of the private sector to take over commercial and
productive activities depends on the existence of a well-operating banking
system. The major overhaul of the banking system, which has been
undertaken since September 1985, will contribute to private sector activity
and allow monitoring of the credit aggregates, a crucial feature of the IMF
program.
35.       Faced with the magnitude and irreparable nature of problems in
the state-owned banking system, the Government abandoned the idea of
rehabilitation. Instead, it has launched a series of measures towards
eventual liquidation of these banks; at the same time, entirely new banking
institutions have been established. Operations of all of the former banks
ceased on December 23, 1985 and Government payroll and treasury operations,
which had been handled by one of the banks (CNCIH), was returned to the
Ministry of Finance. The firsr new bank, Banque Internationale pour
l'Afrique - Guin6e, BIAG, opened in August 1985, and two others, BICI-GUI
and SGC, became operational by the end of the year. Together with a small
private bank (DMI), they should be able to meet all domestic banking needs.
In particular BICI-GUI, established with technical and financial assistance
(US$2.5 million) under IDA's Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion
Project (Credit 1234), and with assistance from a group of multinational
and national organizations including EIB, CCCE, FAC, IFC and DEG, as well
as three foreign banks (BNP,



- 12 -
Banque Lambert, and Dresdner Bank), will support small and medium
enterprise by establishing branches in Conakry and the seven provinces over
the next 18 months. BICI-GUI will take charge progressively of industrial
and agricultural credit and initially be largely responsible for credit
operations to the public enterprises. The existence of new banks with
reliable accounts will enable the monitoring of the credit policy
established between the IMF and the Government. In addition, the creation
of these new banks will stimulate private sector trade, banking and
currency transactions, activities which were poorly handled by the
Government-owned banks in the past.
36.       Following the cessation of operations on December 23, 1985, the
state-controlled banks will be liquidated. Consultants financed under
Credit 1234-GUI are supporting and monitoring this exercise. They are
assisting the Central Bank prepare a liquidation plan, which is due for
completion bv March 31, 1986. Liabilities will be ranked by order of
prioritv and specific schemes defined for repayment. Similarly, guidelines
will be prepared for the recovery of outstanding loans. A specialized
Guinean team for each bank will implement the liquidation program; bank
employees, other than members of these teams, will be transferred to the
civil service Reserve (para. 49).
Reform of the Public Sector
37.       Institutional reforms are understandably moving more slowly but
there has been significant progress. In late 1984, as part of a general
reorganization and streamlining of Government, the number of ministers was
reduced from 35 to 18   With the encouragement of IDA and IMF staff, an
Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee (CCEF) has been operating
since early 1985 to prepare and supervise the economic reform process.
Economic management has been conbolidated into a new Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation and a Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Following a second Government reorganisation and streamlining on December
22, 1985, further restructuring of the Government is envisaged during 1986
in order to reduce the number of ministries to the strict minimum, to
improve efficiency and avoid duplication of responsibilities, and to staff
the administration with well-qualified and properly supervised personnel.
Specialized consultants financed under a SPPF advance are helping carry out
a census of all public sector employees and prepare a reorganization plan
for key ministries.
38.       Reforming the pervasive and inefficient Guinean public sector is
a major challenge and a short-term imperative. There are two aspects:
reducing the size and cost of public administration, and the State's
withdrawal from the productive sectors of the economy. The authorities are
ideologically committed to a liberal, private sector approach to develop-
ment. In addition to the measures aiming at improving economic management
and control of the budget and adapting the current taxation system and
budgetary expenditures to the post-devaluation situation, the teform
program addresses the restructuring of the public enterprise sector and the
need to ree :e and rationalize public sector employment.
39.       Budget Control.  For better control of all budgetary transac-
tions, all current and capital operations were incorporated into a single



- 13 -
budget on September 11, 1985, and new budgetary procedures have been
issued. The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (formerly
MPRN) will be in charge of the management of the external debt and all
external borrowing will require the Minister's prior approval. To further
improve control over public resources, consultants employed under the
Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management will assist the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation in overhauling the
Government's procurement regulations, and new procedures will have been
introduced by the start of the foreign exchange auction.
40.       The Parapublic Sector.  The Government is intent upon a drastic
streamlining of the public enterprise sector. This will be done by liqui-
dating non-performing enterprises and by privatizing others in part or
completely. The Government is committed in principle to abolishing all
monopolies, including those responsible for the importation and distribu-
tion of strategic goods, notably petroleum products. A limited number of
enterprises deemed to be in the public interest will be maintained and
physically and financially rehabilitated. Pending rationalization of the
sector, no new state enterprises or state participations in mixed
enterprises would be formed/taken without prior consultation with the
Association. Consultants financed by IDA are now assisting the Government
in coordinating this divestiture and rationalization program. This work
consists of refining the classification of industrial and non-industrial
enterprises (already prepared by CCEF technical staff) to remain in the
Government's portfolio, revision of a general policy and strategy statement
on public enterprises and preparation of transitional, enterprise-level
measures for credit, working capital, subsidies, foreign exchange require-
ments and cost cutting while the sector is restructured.
41.       Restructuring the Public Industrial Sector.  Consultants financed
by IDA and FAC are now assisting the Government in reviewing its holdings,
under the general rule that industrial activities should be restricted to
economically viable activities undertaken by private interests. The latter
would relieve the Ministry of Manpower, Industry and Small and Medium
Enterprises (formerly the Ministry of Industrial Development) from its
current management and production role, in addition to bringing in private
management expertise and financial participation. It is expected that
these steps will enable at least some of the enterprises to reach optimal
production levels and to achieve production of acceptable quality. The
Government has decided, as a logical corollary of this policy, to close
those enterprises whose viability cannot be demonstrated. In a first
diagnostic phase, now under way, the 45 existing companies have been
evaluated. Ten enterprises have stopped operations and are being
liquidated. A further 17 have had their staffs reduced while a systematic
search is under way for private partners, Guinean or foreign; if no
partners are found they will be placed in liquidation. Private partners
are also being actively sought for 11 firms with good immediate prospects
for privatization.
42.       Mining and Petroleum Companies.  Investment bankers financed
under the Mineral Sector Management Project are reviewing the Government's
participation in Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (CBG - a bauxite mine in
which it owns 49 percent of the shares in partnership with HALCO, a multi-
national consortium of aluminum producers) and FRIGUIA, a



- 14 -
similarly-structured alumina refinery. The structure and operations of
OBK, a state enterprise bauxite mine operated with USSR assistance, will
also be reviewed with a view to modifying the company's structure and
delinking its sales from the reimbursement of Soviet debt. In the case of
CBG, the HALCO partners have proposed a far-reaching amendment of their
revenue sharing agreement, including suppression of the Special Tax on
bauxite exports, which accounts for some 30 percent of Government revenue.
Total suppression of the Special Tax would effectively mean reduction of
the contractual sales price for CBG's bauxite from US$35/ton to US25/ton, or
by nearly 30 percent, and hence similar reductions in Government revenue
and in Guinea's overall foreign exchange earnings from bauxite. Given the
heavy implications of amending the HALCO agreement and, at the same time,
the importance of ensuring the financial viability of the operation, a
prudent and reasonable mining sector policy is essential. Guinea and its
HALCO partners have established a calendar for reviewing together the
bauxite taxation regime, and the Government will consult with the
Association before making any changes in these arrangements. A new Mining
Code, making exploration and exploitation practices closer to international
norms and removing the practice of half government ownership, will be
promulgated shortly; this should encourage more private sector interest in
Guinea's substantial non-bauxite resources. In addition, a new Petroleum
Codc is under preparation under Credit 1438-GUI (Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project), and following a choice between joint venture and
production-sharing arrangements, the GoveLrent would promulgate the new
Code as a condition of second tranche release.
43.       Non-industrial State Enterprises.  The Government intends to
liquidate a wide range of commercial enterprises handling books and sta-
tionery, records, bicycles and motor vehicles, foodstuffs, etc. Many of
these enterprises now barely function, as their activities have been
overtaken by a proliferation of private traders. As a condition for Second
Tranche release, the Government will establish, not later than March 31,
1986 a plan of action, acceptable to IDA, for the restructuring of its
non-industrial parapublic sector. The Government has already taken a number
of measures with respect to enterprises dealing with rice, as noted
earlier, and petroleum products. These include the establishment, with
assistance of CCCE, of Societe Guineenne de Commerce (SGC), a mixed-
enterprise trading company with participation by SCOA and CFAO, two French
trading companies. In competition with the private sector and existing
state enterprises while they are being liquidated, SGC will handle imports
of foodstuffs (rice, in particular) and building materials, and it will
operate as a representative for foreign suppliers. For petroleum products,
the Government has begun negotiations with international oil companies for
the creation of a gasoline and diesel distribution system wihich would
compete with the state enterprise ONAH. Rehabilitation programs are under
way for the power and water companies (SNE, DEG) with IDA financing, and
will be implemented by December 31, 1986, after approval by the Associa-
tion. Studies are underway with UNDP and CIDA assistance for Air Guinee,
whose international services were suspended on January 2, 1986, and with
CCCE, IDA and UNDP help for the creation of an autonomous telecommunica-
tions agency to replace the poorly-performing telex and telephone service
in the Ministry of Communications and Tourism. These studies are to be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1986, and the agreed programs implemented
thereafter according to a calendar to be agreed. The Government



- 15 -
(Secretariat of State for Transport) will review, before April 30, 1986,
the statutes of the Conakry Port Authority (PAC), the Conakry Airport
Authority (AdC) and the Guinean National Railways Office (ONCFG) to ensure
sufficient managerial and financial autonomy for these entities.
44.       As a result of these far-reaching reforms, by the end of 1987
only a handful of enterprises -- mainly public utilities -- will remain in
the Government portfolio. In addition to relieving the State budget from
the burden of subsidies, the task of determining a realistic credit policy
on the basis of the credit needs of the remaining enterprises will be
significantly simplified. Given the limited liquidity in the parapublic
sector, it is clear that most of the public enterprises, including the
viable ones, would require credit so as to be able to ride out cash flow
problems at least during an interim period between the time the devaluation
becomes effective and the time sales are made on the basis of adjusted
prices for their final goods. While the credit policy of the Government
should by and large determine which enterprises survive and which do not, a
small number of enterprises will continue to depend during an interim
period of adjustment on government subsidies to continue their operations
(e.g. the utility companies -- DEG and SNE). An additional group of mixed
enterprises which are viable in the medium term but incur losses in the
initial years of operation after the devaluation will also require govern-
ment subsidies. Total subsidies accorded to the electricity, telephone,
water, railroad and public transport companies will not exceed FG 2 billion
in 1986.
45.       Public Investment.  Towards the overall objective of intensifying
exploitation of the natural resource base of the country and improving the
standard of living of Guinea's population, the Government intends to orient
the public investment program to supporting the directly productive sec-
tors. Particularly urgent is the rehabilitation and maintenance of exist-
ing infrastructure.
46.       The medium-term public investment program would support the
adjustment effort by assisting the recovery of smallholders farm produc-
tion, facilitating other domestic producers' response to the currency
realignment, and initiating long-term reforms aimed at increasing Guinea's
production potential. The agricultural sector would receive first priori-
ty, and a Master Plan is now being prepared. Increased agricultural
production will require improvements in the transport network (now being
assisted by IDA's Third Highway Project, on-farm storage and increased
availability of inputs for smallholders. In other sectors, public invest-
ment should similarly continue to attach highest priority to rehabilitation
and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment and to encouraging private
investors willing to use their own money and take their own risks under the
protection of the new Investment Code.  Within the sphere of the public
investment program, only those projects agreed with the Association will be
undertaken in 1986. In addition, consistent with the overall review and
reform the Government is undertaking of the parapublic sector, there will
be no new investment in public enterprises or mixed companies except in the
context of rehabilitation programs acceptable to the Association. A
three-year investment program, including a portfolio of new investment
projects, will be established following completion of sector master plans



- 16 -
and other reviews now underway in agriculture, transport, energy, water
supply, education and health.
47.       Investment Planning Procedures.  With the support of the IDA-
financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management, the proce-
dures, organization and structure of MPCI are being revamped to make the
Ministry more operational and better able to play its role in the manage-
ment of the national economy. As already agreed with the Association,
rolling, three-year investment programming will be introduced. An initial
investment program is to be submitted for review by June 30, 1986 with
particular emphasis on projects ready to start in 1987 or for which
feasibility studies and detailed preparation/engineering should be
undertaken. Appropriate planning manuals and national accounts methods
will also be introduced. MPCI now has control over cofinancing and the
search for external resources; also all Government debt and guarantee
engagements require the prior approval of the Minister of Planning and
International Cooperation.
Reform of Public Administration
48.       Employment Issues in the Public Sector.  Considering the ineffi-
ciency of most public enterprises and the civil service, their overstaffing
and the resulting burden on the government budget, it is essential to
reduce their staff as soon as possible. This is an important feature of
the structural adjustment program, and figures in the Government's
undertakings to the IMF. Although the devaluation's overall impact on the
1986 Government budget is strongly positive, salaries - now insufficient
to assure even a minimal standard of living without outside employment --
will have to be increased four- or five-fold to introduce satisfactory
incentives to the reduced civil service that will remain after the
administrative reform which is underway. A major reduction in public
sector employment would enable the government to grant the salary increases
needed to introduce appropriate incentives and improve performance without
unduly increasing the burden on the budget.
49.       The Government has therefore adopted a phased program of public
sector employment reductions. As a first step, it has retired some 3,000
civil servants, by applying strictly the decision to automatically retire
civil servants and parastatal employees over the age of 55 or with over 30
years of service (a small number of extremely capable senior staff may be
retained on a contract basis, subject to CCEF approval). Following the
civil service census under way (to be completed by March 15, 1986 through-
out Guinea), the Government will also terminate the employment of all
employees hired in an irregular fashion or listed on the payroll ficti-
tiously or without justification. From many accounts of the political
appointment practices under the previous regime, and experience in other
countries from such exercises, this may well represent 5-8,000 of the
90,000-odd public enterprise and government employees now being paid.
Additionally, staff of public enterprises were removed from the civil
service rolls, and their salaries made the responsibility of the
enterprises. During 1986, the Government would implement comprehensive
competency testing of all civil servants, and on the basis of the results,
would be able to reduce public service employment by 10,000 by June 30, and
by 20,000 by December 31 below the number actually on duty on January 1,



- 17 -
1986. Included in these 1986 figures are all employees of the parastatals
envisaged for full liquidation: they would be terminated at the time of
their companies' closure. Civil servants and enterprise staff terminated
will be placed "in reserve" (disponabtlit6 speciale), eligible to receive
their salaries and the rice payment for six months while they seek new
employment. By the end of 1986, the Government plans to have put in place
a "Public Service of Reform" (Administration de Redressement) of about
14,000, moved about 12,000 into Reserve, and encouraged an additional
11,000 to leave Government service. During 1987, the Government plans to
begin to shift all teachers and health workers to local authorities'
budgets, as part of its overall decentralization plan.
50.       Public Sector Salary Policy.  While the government's 1986 salary
bill will be contained at FGI8 billion, the devaluation is being
accompanied by exceptional payments to compensate (at least partially) for
loss of purchasing power resulting from price increases associated with the
devaluation.  Civil servants are being fully compensated for the loss in
purchasing power due to increases in prices of rice and petroleum products.
The four-fold increase in rice prices is being met by a FG3,000/month
across-the-board increase for all civil servants of record, and, for a
six-month period, all former civil servants placed "in reserve" (para. 49).
In addition, civil servants in active duty (i.e. not in reserve) in the
Conakry area are receiving a FG 3000/month transportation allowance to
compensate for the increase in transport costs. No generalized salary
increase will be accorded until there is an overall restructuring of the
civil service, during the latter half of 1986, in accordance with the
program outlined above.
51.       While the reduction in civil service employment would rationalize
to some extent the management of the civil service, the weakness in admin-
istrative capacity goes bevond problems of overstaffing. Most of the civil
servants are inadequately trained, there are no standard procedures for
recruitment to the civil service and no centralized system of personnel
management exists. In addition to the reorganization of the core economic
ministries which is to be undertaken within the framework of the IDA
Technical Assistance Project, following the Government's request, a
US$300,000 SPPF advance supports the civil service census and
reorganization, and helps establish controls in MEF over the level of
employment and salaries, consistent with budgetary resources. The
Technical Assistance Project and on-going sector operations, in agriculture
and power in particular, examine appropriate staffing levels and are
preparing action programs for restructuring key ministries. In cooperation
with the UNDP, the Government has begun a program to analyze the current
system of personnel management in the civil service; establish the rules
and procedures for recruitment and promotion of civil servants; establish
and maintain up-to-date computerized information on authorized positions
and available personnel; and investigate means of decentralizing
administration to the provincial, prefecture and district levels. The
results of these studies would be discussed with the Association on their
completion during 1986, and the procedures for controlling authorized
positions and recruitment implemented promptly. Components of several IDA
projects identify the training needs of civil servants of various ranks and
undertake appropriate training programs.



- 18 -
Fxpected Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
52.       Supply Response.  The exchange rate adjustment, freeing of the
marketing system and improving producer prices is expected to elicit an
immediate and important production response in the agricultural sector, as
well as to encourage agricultural products that are presently being
smuggled out to be sold instead through official marketing channels. In
anticipation of the proposed reforms and increased coffee prices, for
example, farmers have started maintenance activities on their plantations
and it is expected that in addition to regular maintenance, about 10
percent of the existing plantations (i.e. about 3,500 ha) would be
rehabilitated through pruning. This regular maintenance alone would
increase yields (now averaging 100kg/ha) to 180 kg/ha, while the
regenerated plots should average 400 kg/ha over the first five years of
regeneration. Thus, annual Guinean coffee production within the five years
following the pricing and marketing reforms should double to about 7,000
tons. If producer prices remain competitive with those in neighboring
countries, most of the coffee production would be marketed through official
channels, leading to an increase of 6,000 tons per year over the 1983
official exports. In addition, new plantations could be planted over the
next five to seven years to bring Guinea's annual exports to about 15,000
tons, Guinea's International Coffee Organization quota. For rice, the
incentive effect may be less marked, since an active parallel market has
alreadv grown up in the interior and price increases through decontrol
alone may not elicit large surpluses. The main impact will be to open up
the large Conakry market to local producers, and at least 5 to 10 percent
(5,000 to 10,000 tons) could be met from local production instead of by
imports. Additional rice output could be expected under a more effective
production system, and correctly distributed fertilizer, seeds and tools
should result in an estimated incremental production of 15,000 tons of rice
over the next two years. The cumulative impact on annual rice production
in the short term should be about 20,000 to 25,000 tons, or about 9 percent
of current output. The longer term producer response will depend on
measures to improve the supply of seed and inputs, as well as to expand
agricultural credit and strengthen extension services. In the industrial
sector, where enterprises are operating at 5 to 15 percent of capacity,
increased foreign exchange availability, allowing the import of inputs and
spare parts, should allow a significant improvement in production, as will
the rehabilitation of viable enterprises under sound private management.
The share of manufacturing in GDP (now only about 2 percent) should
consequentlv show a substantial rise as the private sector responds to the
new incentive structure.
53.       Public Finance.  In addition to an increase in revenue due to
modifications in fiscal policv (para. 31), the exchange rate adjustment is
expected to have a substantially favorable net impact on the Government's
financial situation through increased revenue related to international
transactions, some 75 percent of receipts, whereas the share of budgetary
outlays in foreign exchange is less than 50 percent. The improved revenue
outlook, coupled with a near elimination of subsidies to the public
enterprises, should enable the Government to reverse the deterioration of
its budgetary situation, to regularize its payments arrears and to make an
increasing contribution towards financing the public investment program.
Exceptional expenditure amounting to 15-20 percent of projected receipts



- 19 -
will be required in 1986 for compensation payments entailed in
restructuring the public service and transfers to offset specific
devaluation-related price increases (para. 50). By 1987, however, the
Government should be able to realize a surplus (before debt rescheduling)
of about 25 percent of receipts which would be available for debt repayment
and new investment financing. The favorable impact of devaluation
notwithstanding, the Government must take account of a likely drop In
revenue from the mining sector implied by any modification in existing
bauxite taxation arrangements to reflect depressed world market conditions
(para. 42). Pending final agreement on taxation in the sector, HALCO has
guaranteed the Government a minimum of US$150 million a year in revenue
through 1987, equivalent to 86 percent of actual receipts from CRG in 1984.
54.       Balance of Payments Consequences.  Substantial balence of pay-
ments assistance on concessional terms will be needed over the medium term
to support Guinea's adjustment effort. Support in the form of both fresh
funding and debt relief will be needed to meet overall deficits of a
projected US$169 million in 1986, US$165 million in 1987 and an average of
close to US$100 million a year in 1988-89 (Annex 6). In the first two
vears of adjustment, 1986-87, such assistance will be needed in particular
to support increased needs for capital and intermediate goods for new
investment and rehabilitation of existing capital assets. By 1988-89,
despite substantial improvement in the balance of payments due to the
reform program, external assistance would remain critical inter alia to
cushion the impact of a possible drop in the effective export price for CBG
bauxite (para. 53). Such a price reduction could mean a considerable loss
in Guinea's export earnings in 1988-89, although the size of the reduction
still has to be agreed between the government and HALCO. The impact of any
significant drop in prices for bauxite, which together with alumina
currently represents 99 percent of the country's recorded export earnings,
points up the need to diversify the economy though rapid development of its
enormous and varied natural resource base. The proposed IDA Structural
Adjustment Credit and Special Africa Facility Credit together would offset
13 percent of the projected two-year 1986-87 balance of payments gap.
Resources made available under the IMF Stand-by arrangement as well as
those related to the IDA operation from bilateral sources would amount to
about US$105 million and thus finance a further 31 percent of the projected
1986-87 gap. Additional financing can be expected in the form of private
transfers from Guineans living abroad for both new investment and the
rehabilitation of commercial and industrial enterprises. Provided that the
remaining requirements for external support can be met, and met on
concessional terms, Guinea's current account deficits should be reduced to
sustainable levels in the 1990s as agricultural and mineral exports are
diversified and expanded and as import substitution begins to take hold
with rising production of foodcrops as well as manufactured goods produced
by rehabilitated enterprises.
55.       Growth Impact.  In response to the monetarv, price and adminis-
trative reforms being undertaken by the Government and with prudent public
investment policy, overall growth of the economy could approach 5 percent
per annum on average through the end of the 1980s, enabling an important 2
percent annual increase in per capita incomes in that period. Although the
full impact of the economic reform program on production in the priority
agricultural sector will be most pronounced only as marketing and input



- 20 -
supply networks are established over the medium term, price incentives and
regular supply of inputs and consumer goods in rural areas are expected to
have a significant impact on smallholders production in the short run.
Agricultural growth is projected to average 5.4 percent annually over the
remainder of the decade. Industrial growth outside the bauxite subsector
should begin to rise relatively quickly with expansion of other mining
activity and with rehabilitation of selected industrial enterprises. This
expansion would be enabled in particular by the AREDOR diamond project,
assisted with IFC financing, the start-up of other, new non-bauxite mining
operations, recovery in building industries and new investment in manufac-
turing. Overall industrial sector growth could thus be boosted to an
average annual rate of about 5 percent through the end of the 1980s.
Further privatization of trade and other commercial activities should
similarly stimulate growth in the tertiary sector to an average rate of
about 4 percent per annum. These developments would constitute an
important reversal of past trends in the economy and could enable Guinea to
enter the 1990s with significantly improved prospects for sustained growth
and savings.
56.       The social impact of such a far-reaching and comprehensive
program is likely to be most pronounced in two areas: price changes and
their impact on the cost of living, and unemployment through reduction in
public staffing. As indicated above, when the prices of rice and petroleum
products were initially increased on January 6, 1986, fully compensatory
salary adjustments were given to civil servants, who account for the bulk
of wage earners in Conakry. These are based on a household consumption
survey undertaken in November 1984 with IDA and FAC support, which showed
that official purchases of these items represented less than 10 percent of
the typical family's consumption expenditures. In the case of rice, over
half of a family's consumption is purchased at the market rate - which
varied during 1985 from 90 to 150 sylis per kilo - rather than at the
official price of 20 sylis; hence, the maintenance of a well-managed
security stock in the capital of 15,000 tons (about 2-3 months consumption)
to be sold at the equivalent of FG80/kg represents a fall in price for most
customers. Outside Conakry, the evidence is that practically all goods are
traded at uncoatrolled prices, which already reflect the new exchange rate
and de facto decontrol; thus the price impact of the reforms is expected
to be minimal outside the capital.  The increased price of imported rice
should also benefit rice producers in the potentially very rich area
within 75km of Conakry, an area where forced marketing of the past and the
unfair competition of imported rice made possible by the overvalued ex-
change rate discouraged local production. Possible supply shortages just
after the start of reforms will be mitigated by this year's bumper rice
crop.
57.       A remaining issue is the extent to which new employment opportu-
nities exist for the staff placed "in reserve", that is, released from the
public sector. These staff will be eligible to compete equally for posts
throughout the Government, since the testing operation that will be under-
taken during 1986 will permit mobility among the existing civil servants as
well as placement of recent graduates. As noted previously, the government
intends to maintain salary payments, including the increase for the price
of rice, to terminated employees for six months, with a possibility of a
further six months for those who have not found employment. Termination



- 21 -
grants and loans will be available in some sectors, such as livestock,
where private sector opportunities will be available, and banking reforms
will improve access to credit. Recent sample surveys suggest that employ-
ment creation in the small-scale private sector has started well, with the
number of jobs created in the last 18 months exceeding the total employment
in the public industrial sector in Conakry. The private sector, which is
expanding, should be able to absorb recent graduates and some of the
released civil servants. But as this will not be sufficient, some tempo-
rary employment for those leaving the administration and the parastatals
will have to be provided by temporary programs in road maintenance and
public works supported by the national budget. The Government has sought
IDA and UNDP support for such a program, which would be assisted by private
voluntary organizations.
PART III -- THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
Background
58.       During the discussion of the Country Economic Memorandum in
December 1983, the former government was persuaded that only an exchange
rate adjustment would allow the production incentives needed to end the
long period of economic stagnation Guinea has experienced. Preparations
began for the economic reform program, with the establishment of staff
working groups to examine the features of a program, and in particular to
analyze the effects of a devaluation on the productive sectors. Work began
slowly, however, and following the change of Government in April 1984, the
new leaders asked the Association and the IMF for intensified assistance to
prepare the program to address Guinea's very difficult economic problems.
Work proceeded over the summer, but moved slowly owing to continued politi-
cal hesitation over the major measures that would need to be taken, as well
as the new leaders' need to consolidate political and administrative
authority. In October 1984, IMF and IDA missions visited Guinea to examine
details of the program: the Government's reply to the aide-memoire left by
the missions was received in Februarv 1985, and an IDA mission visited
Conakry from March 10 to April 1 to appraise the proposed Structural
Adjustment Credits. Negotiations were held in Conakry from December 5 to
12, 1985, with a Guinean delegation led by Commandant Jean Traore, Minister
of State for Planning and Natural Resources and chairman of the Economic
and Financial Coordinating Committee (para. 22). A Statement of Develop-
ment Policy issued on December 19, 1985 forms the basis for this operation
(Annex 5). There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report, Supplementary data
appear in Annex 3.
Coordination with the IMF
59.       At all stages, there has been close collaboration between IDA and
IMF staff. There were joint missions of the Fund and !DA in October 1984,
and July and September 1985. While the Fund and IDA support jointly all
the elements of the Government program, the Fund was primarily responsible
for advising the government on the exchange rate adjustment and the mone-
tary reform and related measures (price adjustment, establishment of a new
trading company, reorganization of the Central Bank), public finance
management, credit policy and external debt management. The Fund has also



- 22 -
supported the reform of the banking system (establishment of new banks and
liquidation of state controlled banks), the reduction of the civil service
and public sector salary policy, the parapublic enterprise reform, import
liberalization and tariff reform, which were worked out by the Association.
There is also close coordination between the IMF and the Bank for technical
assistance (para. 68). and with the other donors, especially France, in
setting up parallel operations in support of the program (para. 67).
Objectives and Description
60.       The principal objectives of the Credits are to provide immediate
assistance for the Government's economic recovery program and allow econom-
ic activity to continue and expand while current and future reform measures
are implemented.
61.        The Credits and the associated cofinancing will thus help
support Phase II of the long-run rehabilitation and adjustment of the
Guinean economy (para. 21). While the reform measures taken so far are
impressive and important, further substantial action will be required,
focussing on measures to stimulate domestic output, particularly in the
industrial sector. As noted above, improvements will be needed in invest-
ment programming, agricultural and energy pricing, marketing and distribu-
tion systems, and in the size and operation of the state enterprise sector.
These structural changes will take some time, and imply complementary
strengthening of Guinea's administrative and policy-making machinery to
enable such a program to be implemented. The Association's Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Management addresses some of these issues,
and the role of the Bank Group in supporting Guinea's long-term structural
adjustment is discussed in part IV below.
Credit Administration and Management
62.       Disbursements under the IDA and SFA Credits would be facilitated
by the establishment of Special Accounts in the Central Bank into which at
Credit effectiveness US$8 million would be disbursed. Replenishment of
these accounts, up to the limit of the First Tranche of US$12.5 million
equivalent of the proposed Credit, and US$12.5 million of the SFA Credit,
would be made regularly on the basis of (i) statements of expenditure
aggregated in amounts of not less than US$600,000 equivalent and on (ii)
evidence that the funds had been used for imports permitted under the
Credits. The Government's CCEF, which prepared the economic reform
program, would have overall responsibility for its implementation and for
the mobilization and use of the external financial assistance. A technical
subgroup of the CCEF, with representatives of the Central Bank and the
Ministry of Economy and Finance would prepare and certify withdrawal
applications, which would be signed by the Minister of Economy and Finance
or his representative. The technical subgroup would, in particular, review
import declarations to verify those eligible for financing.
Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing
63.       The proposed Credits would finance imports other than luxury and
defense items. Petroleum products are included because the industrial and
transport sectors face frequent shortages, thus limiting their contribution



- 23 -
to national output 1/. Imports of petroleum products and food items would
not exceed 25 percent respectively of disbursements under the proposed
Credits, and there would be bulking of purchases for petroleum products.
The import and distribution of goods would be handled by normal commercial
channels selected by the importer. Direct imports by the public sector
would follow public procurement regulations, which call for international
competitive bidding for amounts exceeding US$400,000 equivalent and three
price quotations for goods exceeding US$4,000. Goods would be sold to the
final users at prices that reflected the international prices of the goods,
plus applicable customs duties and taxes.
64.       Assuming satisfactory progress on the program, the proposed SAC
and African Facility Credit would be disbursed from March 1986 to January
1987. The proposed Credits would finance only cif costs of eligible
imports subject to documentary evidence that they had been paid for on or
after January 6, 1986. An estimated US$6 million would be retroactively
financed.
65.       Conditions for release of the second tranche of the proposed
Credit and the SFA Credit are: (i) satisfactory progress on the program:
(ii) the promulgation of an Investment Code and suitable implementation
procedures, a revised Commercial Law and a Petroleum Code, acceptable to
the Association; (iii) negotiation of a multilateral debt rescheduling;
(iv) start of a liquidation program for the state-controlled primary banks;
(v) reduction in the number of public employees by 10,000 persons below the
number on duty on January 1, 1986; (vi) a review of rice stocking and
distribution arrangements for 1986; and (vii) adjustment of the price of
rice, coffee, palm kernels, and petroleum in a manner acceptable to the
Association, and on the basis of a review of these prices in the second
quarter of 1986.
Counterpart Funds
66.       Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit would be added to the budget and subject to
normal public finance expenditure controls.
Cofinancing
67.       Guinea's major economic partners have already pledged substantial
complementary financial aid to support the Government's economic reform
program. Under a FF200 million (US$26.7 million) agreement signed in
1/   Oil imports are now financed on a cash basis and therefore somewhat
irregularly, resulting in rupture of stocks and unreliable supply of
electricity by the SNE, the power utility. Oil imports in 1982 and
1983 (about US$40 million) accounted for 25% of current imports
(excluding equipment imports by the Planning Ministry and imports by
enclave mining companies).



- 24 -
September 1985 with CCCE, France will provide quick-disbursing assistance.
The first tranche of FF100 million has already been released, and the
remaining FF100 million would be available once the proposed Structural
Adjustment and African Facility Credits become effective. Japan, through
its Organization ior Economic Cooperation and Funding, intends to provide
an untied loan of 5,000 million Yen (equivalent to US$24.8 million) at 1.25
percent interest for 30 years, including 10 years of grace under Special
Joint Financing, in addition to a 600 million Yen grant equivalent to
US$3.0 million for highway maintenance equipment to be procured following
ICB. The Federal Republic of Germany envisages SJF grants totalling DM23.0
million (equivalent to US$9.4 million).  Switzerland will make a bilateral
grant of SF10.0 million, US$4.8 million equivalent, for which the
Association will act as Administrator. The United States is also
considering financial support to the program. Thus, at least US$147
million should be available in 1986 and 1987, including US$36.3 million
under the IMF Stand-by arrangement, to support Guinea's Structural
Adjustment Program.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The main benefits are: laying the basis for Guinea's growth in
the medium-term by removing price and exchange rate distortions, and
creating the legal and institutional framework within which private invest-
ment and production can take place. There are two main risks, administra-
tive and political. The lack of sound economic managers in the Guinean
administration has been taken into account by designing a program based on
decontrol and liberalization, in which the State has chosen a limited role
for itself in the productive sectors. Nevertheless, the program will
require careful monitoring and some fine tuning to ensure that entrenched
interests - in the Government and the commercial sector - do not delay or
distort the measures once they begin. The monitoring and implementation
capacity of the Guinean administration is being reinforced by advisors and
consultants financed by IDA, France and the IMF, including a World Bank
staff member seconded to the IMF as Resident Adv'sor to CCEF. In particu-
lar, resident advisors and consultants helped prepare and are helping
implement the banking and public enterprise reform programs, and a resident
team financed by UNDP will follow up on the implementation of the public
service reform and reduction effort 2/. The experience of this technical
assistance for developing Guinean skills in the core economic management
ministries and at the Central Bank is encouraging. The political risk is
not negligible, in that the removal of distortions will inevitably run
counter to the interests of those who currently benefit from them, and the
public sector rationalization program will create unemployment and the
potential for urban unrest in the delicate early months of reform. The
Government has introduced compensatory measures to alleviate the impact of
price increases and civil service salary reduction. The authorities will
2/   This operational support includes important training efforts, viz, the
Association's Technical Assistance Project, and the twinning
arrangement for the French and Guinean Ministries of Economy and
Finance.



- 25 -
also have to ensure that the program's intended removal of obstacles to
private sector initiative -- essential for job creation - is not frustrat-
ed by the bureaucratic habits of the past, and the design of the import,
foreign exchange and investment procedures attempts to carry through the
principle of liberalization and decontrol. Nevertheless, carrying out the
program implies some risk for the authorities, and determination will be
needed for the program to succeed.
PART IV -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
69.       The Association will continue to pursue a selective approach
linked to the responsiveness by the Guinean authorities to policy recommen-
dations.  Our analytical work and related lending operations would help the
authorities: (i) prepare, finance and implement the economic adjustment
program; (ii) rehabilitate key economic, physical, and social infrastruc-
ture; and (iii) establish the administrative framework and the public
institutions needed to manage (but not dominate) the development process.
This will be achieved through a lending program providing both immediate
financial support for economic policy reform and assistance for priority
sectors wnere a combination of policy and instrumental reforms and selec-
t-Uve investment programs will attract the support of other donors and
encourage complementary activity by the private sector.
70.       In the new context of economic reform, the Bank Group's strategy
has three objectives. The first objective is to help initiate a phased
structural adjustment program, based on a monetary adjustment developed
with the IMF and supported by pricing and other policy measures. Such
economic reforms would set the stage for a greatly expanded program in
agriculture, the key domestic sector and one in which macroeconomic policy
changes will have the greatest short-term impact, as well as justify
further support through structural adjustment operations and non-project
lending in support of sector rehabilitation. Second, efforts will continue
to rehabilitate important economic infrastructure and ensure its efficient
maintenance and operation by capable institutions.   Concurrently, support
will be given to efforts to improve education and health services, while
encouraging high priority new investment to be developed by the private
sector. Third, building on the success of the first two goals, overall
encouragement will be given to the building of the institutional framework
necessary to support sustained recovery and long-term development. This
will be promoted in all sectoral projects and through a special effort to
improve the quality of economic decision-making through technical
assistance and our country dialogue. An increasingly diversified lending
program will be developed with the Guinean authorities. This also implies,
as performance improves, an increase in staff resources devoted to the
Guinea program.
71.       We will also continue to encourage a systematic approach to
seeking finance and organized, Government-led aid coordination, using the
Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI) to
promote merging and streamlining of responsibility in strengthened minis-
tries of finance and planning. We will also help the Government convene
during 1986 meetings of donors to review the key sectoral strategies and
investment programs. Moreover, the government has asked IDA to organize a



- 26 -
Consultative Group to examine regularly Guinea's external financing needs
and progress in reform. An expanded and diversified IDA program should
attract cofinancing from a variety of donors, and, given the dimension of
Guinea's needs, cofinancing will become increasingly important. Parallel
financing by other donors with IDA in specific projects will continue; and
the sharing out of financing for investment programs based on agreed sector
strategies in which the Association would play an important role in insti-
tutional development.
72.       The new authorities have displayed a realistic view of what needs
to be done institutionally, and acknowledge the need for reorganization and
training, as evidenced by bold actions under way to strengthen the Central
Bank and the core economic management ministries. Institutional studies
are now underway for public utilities, sector-wide educational planning is
taking hold, and managers of IDA-supported projects are given more autono-
my.
73.       While the proposed Credits and the Technical Assistance Project
for Economic Management will promote key macroeconomic policy change and
improved economic management objectives, IDA's lending would also include
vital complementary project lending, increasingly policy-oriented,
highlighting pricing and institutional reforms and sectoral strategies and
investment programs. Within the context of ongoing technical assistance
and our policy dialogue and sector work focussing on the public sector,
project lending would support the economic rehabilitation process. The
portfolio of on-going projects supports infrastructure critical for the
recovery effort -- rehabilitation and consolidation efforts in rural
transport (Highways III), power (Power I) and water supply (Water Supply
and Sanitation) -- while laying the foundation for sound economic growth in
productive sectors (Petroleum Exploration Promotion, Industrial Rehabilita-
tion and Promotion, Rice I and the Gueckedou Agricultural Development
Project), and in the financial sector. The ongoing Education II, Water
Supply and Sanitation, and Conakry Urban Projects address basic urban needs
while the increased focus on agriculture made possible by pricing changes
will increase the incomes of the rural poor. Once rehabilitation and
stabilization are well underway, expansion projects in rural transport,
power, water supply, and mining would be considered.
74.       IDA's expanded agricultural program will support the recent shift
(in line with the Agricultural Sector Review recommendations) from collec-
tivism towards market pricing and smallholders farming by emphasizing
increased food production, expanded livestock production, and exports of
coffee, tropical fruits, and possibly palm products. Emphasis will be on a
coordinated national program -- now under preparation under the Agricul-
tural Services Project, recently approved by the Executive Directors - in
which many donors will participate. With the abolition by the new Govern-
ment of the forced marketing system that led to the cancellation of the
First Livestock Development Project (September 1983), a Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation Project will be presented to the Executive Directors later
this year.
75.       The Government has announced that the private sector is now to be
charged with industrial and commercial development. But defects in physi-
cal and social infrastructure and a general administrative unfamiliarity



- 27 -
with investment promotion will remain obstacles to development even after
the exchange rate problem is resolved. The banking reforms described above
should improve performance under the on-going Industrial Rehabilitation and
Promotion Project, and facilitate disbursements under the line of credit
for small and medium enterprises. Depending on the success of banking
reform (paras. 37 to 39), follow-up projects could address further finan-
cial sector reforms, including development banking and agricultural credit
requirements. Depressed iron ore markets make prospects for the Mifergui-
Nimba Iron Ore Project highly uncertain, but the Government has decided
that other mineral and gem prospects should be examined, to see how private
sector development might lead to higher (and more rapid) returns to Guinea
than bauxite and iron ore, which imply larger investment and greater
risk-sharing by Government. A Mineral Sector Management Project, emphasiz-
ing technical assistance as well as entrepreneurial approaches to mining
promotion, was recently approved by the Executive Directors. Following its
first investment in the AREDOR diamond and gold mining venture in 1982, IFC
is stepping up efforts to identify other opportunities for private sector
participation, including a granite quarrying and exporting venture with a
French partner, on the basis of a prefeasibility studies conducted under
Credit 1234. IFC is also promoting projects in industry and agro-industry
processing local raw materials for export. To provide an effective climate
for investment, IFC expects to advise on measures to stimulate private
investment, and is working closely with the Association, through its recent
investment in BICI-GUI, on the banking reform.
76.       The Power II Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1595-GUI) includes an institutional study and development of a least-cost
investment program to meet electrical energy needs into the early 1990s,
and continues the institution-building efforts at SNE, the power public
utility, which is now showing good progress. The power sector investment
plan would form the basis for a Second Power Project. Access to safe water
remains a major factor in health problems, and as the Government has
expressed interest in secondary center and rural water supply needs as a
matter of priority, a Second Water Supply Project, part of an overall
sector investment program with carefully-defined institutional and
financial targets, is being prepared.
77.       Institutiunal arrangements under the FY84 Highways III project
correct many earlier project implementation problems, and establish a unit
that could be the basis for a local public works enterprise. The Conakry
Port project removes a major bottleneck to Guinean development, and intro-
duces an organizational model for an autonomous public enterprise which
could be used elsewhere. The Transport Plan study financed under Highways
III will be the basis for a medium-term investment and rehabilitation
program to be reviewed with other donors on its completion in mid-1986, and
a possible IDA transport sector rehabilitation and adjustment project.
78.       Education II makes good, if slow, progress, and UNESCO-assisted
IDA sector work is providing policy advice on primary and technical educa-
tion reform, manpower requirements, and costing and financing. A Third
Education Project would address sector priorities, including expansion and
qualitative improvement of primary education, long-run manpower policies,
and training for new private sector employment opportunities (which may
overburden the system further with new and unforeseen skill demands if



- 28 -
1984, economic output grew at an estimated average annual rate of only 1.5
percent. As a result of the long-standing weakness of the economy, most of
private sector growth takes hold). Following a joint IDA/WHO sector
mission in late 1984, discussion of the mission's report and recommenda-
tions may permit preparation of a rural health project with a population
component, in the context of a reformed national health strategy.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985.
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
January 21, 1986



-29-
A A L I   14                                       P40     of  6
aSLINP.A               - SOCIAL 1N1C08 0T S-OCA
NOS?                     (MOST N10357  STINATII lb
19001±  197~Jb  GCIN          LOW i3co   AFRICA        '11301. TN-cm
geta   Itty    tSPlAi.  /b M               oT  OF SANAPA   ArICA s. or sAmAm
Amia  UoUmo Sq. 0-
TOTAL                                 .        2'.         245.9
.ORIWULTURM.A*. 41.7                                        &5.7
aw Fra cAPrTF (CM)                       .-         *-         00.0              238.8                    1053.5
on" 00IUIWOU PRu CAPIT
tA.L0taNs or CIL WU tvALVITI        3%.O        51.0        54.0               02.3                    sm1.s
rw.UOAUW AND VITAL SUflTLIURC
rPflLAfl0MIi.MID-ILAR (THNUSAJI)    1810.0    4"90.0      1830.0
Jmam PoPtLATlON (I Of TOTAL)         9.9        13.9        25.0               20.1                     32.0
POPULATION PE0JCUWIGS
P iArwAIN in AS 200 (HILL)                                 *.3
STATIORMA  POrULATION (HILL)                              25.0
POUnLATIO  NOWNg                                           1.5
POULlATION OUISTY
PCs SC. Km.                        15.7       18.3        23.7               33.4                      51.1
Pei sq. M. AcEI. UIAID            67.5        95.2       125.0              L12.8                     124.8
POPULATow AGEz     CSU )CL   ()
I-I& YIIS                        62.0        L1.5        *N,.*              46.0                     43.6
15-5 Ts                           11.1                    53.2               W0.$                      1.S
es AtD AJOV9                        .          .            3.M               2.9                       2.7
FOrtAroU CGROIA RATI (I)
TOTAL                              1.1         1.5         2.0               2.5                       2.9
' U                                ,.0         4.9         5.1               6.1                        5.1
conu 51m  7A tE   Two11)            '5.0        '1.0        *7.0               41.2                      7.0
cuHIo DEATV SAT  (FIR TOUS)         30.3        21.9        2.7                1 7J                     15.0
amoss *uaOOUCrZOH RATE               2.9         2.9         3.2               3.3                        3.2
rANILT PLANKING
ACCzPTOS. ANLIAL (TN00S)
USERS (20? HanE0                                             Q .  ..  ..   1.0  3 3.3                  5.4
tO AIID IIIIS=m
'CEX If POoW PRO. Ea CAPwrrA
.-*  -100)                        97.0       101.0        94.0              83.3                      82.9
.- suPPLY oF
IS c: OF R&OtIfRl10rIS)     70.0         9.o        BO.0              S7.7                      90.3
.SS (CRAS FPU  oAY)          36.0        37.0        18.0               11.9                     55.4
OF hINICH ANIMAL AD PULSE         7.0         6.0         7.0 IC            18.7                     10.5
C0ELD t5(AS 1-4) 01A11 LATE         17.1        *8.3        30.0              23.1                      106.
WIALIE
1f1` EtFICT. AT 51116 (YEARS)       34.7        35.4        37.3              47.8                      52.0
NFAMrT NORT. [AU  (PE  THOS)       207.5       155.1       158.0              119.5          I05.8
ACCESS TO SAFE wATER ( 1pCr)
OTAL                               ..           .         17.0 /             27.1                     l2.4
tUAM                               ..         0a.0          .o 71            53.5                     67.5
OnSg                               .                       2.o 7i            19.3                     35.1
*CCQSS TO EXcTA DISPOSAL
(Z of PoPULArTON)
TmAL                               ..         13.0        13.0 Id            25.5                     25.9
UpS                                ..         To.o       s5o 74T            5S3.                        .7
ttUUL.                             ..          2 0         1.07:            20.8                      20.7
PO9tATIO0  MM rVItSICXAN         33770.0    35510.0    17110.0 Ic          27M01.J                   11791.7
POM. tl NURSING "SSW              .oo.O      U2220.0      2570.07E           sXIS.'                   2419.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL MM
TOTAL                           2410.0        70.        550.0 /a          IV13.                      51.1
GiAm                             250.0       240.0       40o 7:            428.2                     354.8
RllAL                           2750.0       950.0 a     70.0 7.           3292.5                   *71.9
ADI71S51011S ?ER HOSPITAL sED        .          1 1t.0       .-                                         27.2
AvrnG szzg or mseaSUoL
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URAM                               ..          ..
*L'tAL                             , .         ..          .                  ..
AUIRAK 410. of PEHSs/uooh
TOTAL                              ..           ..
GlEAM                              ..          ..          .                  ..
EDIAL                              *-          .
PrucrJl Or SUELLLCS WIN ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..          1.0 tr-..
GUA                                ..          ..          .                  ..
tOUIL                              ,.          ..          .                  ..
URW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-30-
T -L  E L  A                                        Pca 2 oE  6
CUMIEA                  - SOCAtL INotCATOtS DATA ENi
GUIA 111                               aVErZNOZ GIU   (WEIGNTDAEAGS   
MOST                      (MMS RECENT  STMTt) lb
RECENT          LOW INCONE ArtlCA          HiLEu rlcoi
mob         IJoL    gurtTdi           SOUTH OF SAIAU         AFRICA S. olr SAHAtA
UUCATIDU
AWUSTID  0NROLJII RATIOS
r&DuAR     TOTAL                    30.0        3.0         33.0 id             87.8                      95.7
PALS                    64.0         45.0        " 7.0               77.8                     100.0
nEMA                    16.0         21.0        22.0 7-            54.,                       13.2
SECUNUA: TOTAL                       2.0        13.0 1O.0 /d                    11.5                        7.3
PALE                     3.0        21.0         23.O 7;              1,.9                     zS.
AE..                                  5.0         9.o 7i    *.1 1,..
VOCATIONAL CZ or SECONDAAT)           21.7         3.2          2.7 Id            13.2                        5.9
SIL-TLOEf RATIO
MDIII?                             8".0         ".0         13.0 /d             44.9                      41.
SECNDA                              28.0        23.0        z1.u 7T             27.4                       25.5
PASSENG    CTSAIWDU For                1.           1.2         ..                 3.                        20.8
RojUO   IUSTOMUSaND FO                10.2         ZO.3       241                  5.8          5           107.I
IT uR       pIVmp                      ..           ..          1.4                Z.1                       20.1
EIPAM  (CULT CENtRAL
)891w          CXXTZON
r-  T74D5JNj  0OFLJATIO               0.2          1.1         3.J                5 1.0                     15J
Cis -   ML ATImi CErFTA                ..           ..          ..                 0.3                        0.4
TOaL L.L room        o CUOs)        110.0       2140.0       2527.0
WENA    C1flQT3                     40.4        60.3        41.8                34.2                      31.2
ACUCLLIUU  (PRcENT)                 SO.0        85.0        *2.0 Id             77.3                      54.5
INUSTR  CFUZT)                       8.0         8.0         11.0 72             9.7                       13.3
PAUICIPAS RAZZ (EICENT)
TOTAL                               49.8        47.7        43.3                39.3                       36.8
mu5                                 59.4        57.4         52.2               50.9                      47.1
MALE                                39.9        38.1        35.3                28.1                      27.2
ECONONC DUSNDC? RtATIO                 0.9         1.0          31..               1.3                        1.3
1cID niSUzTio
FEcUS Of PIAVTAE IICtlE
rEID a
!5ITr 50 or HIIOSEHOLDS             ..           ..
I r? 202 Or nHSEILOS                 ..           ..         ..                  .
LoUwS? 20zo   or  OUSwOLos           ..           ..
LOwSs 40z oF UousUOLDS               ..           ..
P         : TAC     LoV
ESTMAMtD ASO1=  POVER  uNCO
Lan Coss PER CApItA)
UU1                                  ..           ..          ..               I15.S                     590.
UL                                   ..          ..           ..                9S.0                     275.3
SmTiAToD AT POVEKIT LNCOIM
LmVEL (USS FEZ CAPITA)
70.0 If           113.1                      545.4
134L                                 ..          ..          ..                 57.1                     201.1
EsTITDo PO. BELOW ABSOLUTE
KOVUT? LlCOHE LEVEL Cl)
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                 61..
NO? AVAILABLE
.    T0S AflICI.T
NOTES
/a   The g totp orgtm for each LoLcater age pepmaLoi-eIghend artchaftc  maen. Caverag ot countries
meg the L.dtcacora depend. an ne1id_abt1Ley ot  ata aed LO mC mte,..
lb    Min,,  ohehwle ntegd. -Dat  for 190  tofat Co aen  yea beteme  1959 ad 1961;   ata fot 1970M   between
1969 a.d 1971; ad date tft '4aag Uncest gatcneco' between 181 and 193.
Ic   1977;  Id 19S0;  e 1978;  ft 1973: L  L79.
JUnE. M98S



ANNEX I
-  21--
page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
! Notet Although ite data are drawn from %ources gnerally judged the most authorelatave and relmable. It should also be noted that they may not be internationalv
comparable beakus of the lack of andardized delintmons and concepts used by different countnes us collecting the data. The data are. nonetheles useful to
descnbe orders of magnitude, indiate tends, and chricternze certaiun major differences between countines
The reference groups are I31 the same country group of the subject country and (22 a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subject country lexceps for "High Income Oil E rpoters- group where -Middle Incone North Afnca and Mlddle Eat" is chosen becaus of stronger
wcio-cultural alinlneti- In the reference group data the veriages are population weighted anthmetic means for each indiator and shown onh when majont)
of the countres in a group has data for that indicator Since Ihe coveme ofcounies among Ihe idicators depends on the availability ofdata and is not uniform.
caution must beesercsed in relating averages of one indicator io another These averaes are onlv useful in companng the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and referenLc groups
AREA (thousand sq km.)                                               Crude Birth Rate (per thousandj-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surrace area compnsing land arca and inland waters.     per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                            Crude Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricutaral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to    Gross Reproduction Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                                will bear in her normal reproductive period tf she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated bv same conversion method as World         Fe.,7 Planning-Acceptors, Amial (rhuaadsj-Annual num-
Bank 4trlas d91-113 basisl. 1983 data.                               berofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of iational
ENERGY CONSLNIPYION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy tcoal and lignite.          fasiity Pnnating-isers (percent of uirried wemen)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal clec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricityl in kilograms of oil cquisalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any rorm ofcontraception W mnien
1982 data                                                            of child-hearing age are generallv women aged 15-49. althnugh for
some countnes contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      groups.
Total Populatin.Mid-liar (thousands) - As ofluly 1. 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
hudr: ofFood roduacton Per Caita (1969-7) = 100)- Index ofper
Ulrban Population (percent of total)--Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population. different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes aninal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data          include primarv commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugari
Populatodn Projections                                               which are edible and contain nutnents (c g coffee and tea are
Population rn rear 20KM- - The projection of population for 2000.   excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pu6ss. oil Needs.
made for each economy cparatcl- Starting wtth inftirmatton on        vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestlck. and
total populAtion by age and ex. terttili rates. mortaltt rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each countr: is hbsed
international migration in the base year 1980. thes  parameters      on national average producer price weights. 1961-h5. 1971). and
were projected at five-%ear intervals on the basis of generalized    1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary                   Per Capita Supply ef Caoies percent of r-eqairemients. -Comput-
Siatmrnari pppulatwn  Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tahtl rates hate not changed over a long penod. while age-specific   per capita per day. Available supplies compnse domestic prs.duc-
fertility rate, h.i'e simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock  Net supplihe
(net reproduction raie = lj In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities ued in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also      food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements -were
-   constant,. and the growth rate iS 7ero The stationar% population     estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal actis iy
size was etimated on ihe hamis of the prolected charactenstics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body ucaights.
the pppulation in the e.cr 2iNN2. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 1II percent lor
rate to replacement lesel                                           waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
Populationr U.. 'rnrum  Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per dffyi---Proteiu content ol
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been   percapita net supply of food perdav Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all counines established by USDA
unity The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as     provide for minimum allowanees of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  dav and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which III grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein These standards are lower than those .f
ment level froir year f onward. 1985 data                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein is an
* Poulation Detsitr                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAQ in the Third Wsrld Food
Per iq.km   Mvid-sear population per square kilometer (ItlE] hec-   Supply: 19hl. 1970 and 1982 data
taresi of total area. 1960. 1970. and 19X3 data                     Per CapitraProtein Supply From .4 nimaland Pule  Plsrciti uppis
Per sqhm  atrrrcultural leand  Computed as .ibo6c for aricultural   of fo.d denved from animalsuand puilss in grams perda%. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 19'O. and 1992t data.                               1970 and 197' data
Populartion .4ge Structure (percent) - Children 10-14 yearsi. work-  Chid(agesl-4j DearhRate(perthousand)  NLumbcr 'fdeadh-i
ing age i15-t64 ear'l. and reatred th5 years and overl as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the -.anc age
of mid-year population: KWh. 1970. and l9J3 data                    group in a given year For most developing countries daia dented
from life tablics. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
Population Growth Rate fprcent-r-total knnual growth rates c.f
total mid-ycir population for 195*-60. 1960-7). and 1970-(3          HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percent)-urban  Annuai growth rates          Life Expecrancr at Birth f(eor¶I- Number tii years a nces hirn
of urban poxpula tin Itir 1n0-ti) 19641-". id lJ71i-xl data         infant would Ine if presailing pattern- oI mortlity l3 r 1.1I  petiPic



ANNEX 1
-  32-                                        page 4 of 6
at the dime of or its birth were to stay the satne throughout its life.  PupI-teacher Ratio * primary. and secondry-Total students en-
1960. 3970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infaw Morralty Rate (per tAhuand)-Number of infants who die    teachas in the corresponding leves.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 datiL                                 CONSUMPTION
Accas to Sift Welar (pec  eft .1   uladoaj-tatal, urban, and   Passener Cars (per thoxsand popslatonj-Passenger cars com-
ru'aL-Number of peopte (total. urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehices.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Receivers (per thoandpopuatlon)-AU types of receivers
borehols, sprins and sanitary wells) as percentages of their rsec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountan or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasnable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparabl since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonabl access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houseJhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recvrs (per thousandpapiltion)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water necds.                          to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Aesls to E&crete DLsposal (perent of popuaeIeuuJ-total. s.    receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access toExemn Dipmd (pemt ofpopdaon)--totl. arbm. in effect.
nd rnuraL-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by  in      c(h
excreta disposl as percentages of their respective populations.  swspeper C        (per thopopaladoJ  Shows the aver-
Excrea disposal may include the collection mad disposal. with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sim;lar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Pbpatiox per Physiciaa-ltpulation divided by number of prac-   Cieman Annaal AtteyAne per Capita per Yeau-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pbpolittion per Nursing PersoP-iopulation divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.  LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         LABOR FORCE
Poplaidon per Hospital Bed-,oral. irbn. and rwal-Pbpulation    Total u abor fore (rhousandsu-Eco,vomically active persons. i-
(totaL urbam, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houseves.
hospital beds available in public and private general and specialized  students. etc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femafe (percent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricultre (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommnodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Industry (percenr)- Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electncity, water and gas as percentage of totl labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force 1960. 1970 and 19R0 data.
Participaton Rate (percent i-total, makle aidfenm-Particpation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL, male. and female labor force
Average Size of Hosehld (persens per householj-zotra. arban,   as percentages of total. male and femak population of al ages
and rural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectiveiv: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statstical purposes.  long time trend. A few esumates are from national sources.
Aerge Number of Persons per Room-toral, urban, and rural-     Economic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
.Aerage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectivelv Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dweffngs wish Electricitj-toral, urban, and rural-  Percenrage of Total Disposabk Income (both in cash and kind)-
Con'entional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to pecentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectivelv.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROtPS
A4djr ted Exrollment Ratios                                    The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prrmary school - total, male and female-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primars level as percentages of  Estmateed Absolute Powerty Income Level (USS per capita)w-urba
respective primary school-age populations. While manv countnes  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutntionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in countrv practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relatire Poverty Income Level (fSS per capita)--arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative povertv income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrn's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and female-Computed as above:   living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four vears of approved pn-  Estmated Population Below Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mar% instrucuon: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent)-Jurban and rural- Prcent of population I urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ence courses are generally excluded
Vocatonal Enrnllmeni 'percent of secondarry -Vocational instilu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
lions include technical. industnal. or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independenthi or as departments ot secondarv institutions                              June 1985



-33-                                        AMl t
IF 5 af 6
E=   -
We NVA      L           4 1984                         Aut Rm  af         - a.    c   pz )
iS Hln          2      1973-77    197781      1973-61     198145
at MCI       Pia.             1965       1OD        4.59       -0.22        L16         2.00
CG  Dmtic I                   Mt          10       -6.55        7.09        0.0g        7.00
s Ntisl Swutp                  179         9       -3."         0.01       -1.70         -
Ore A u   DeB        a        -22 1,      -L       21.25      -39.77      -4.92          -
evwt oftadu. Ws               532 y       27       30.41        2.35       15.53       1.00
1tte of G5. WS               -436-       -22     -2M.03         3.46       11.64         -
CUW r, 1AUCR FR  AD PEMLY               in 1903
Tabs Added                    Itac Ibi                     VA pera ti
1SS On           S          da                   x            t1SS           2
Agdoia              710          &2.38           20               82.00          351         51.85
hdsny & Miul    383             22.86            271             I."99        133          196.38
Semcs               582          36.75            173              7.02         345         506.6
lbcljherje         1675         100.00           2666            100.00         677         100.00
mrnma~~~~~~~~nea aurmm
usk Sgis                                t if C
1981      1982       1983       1984      1981      19a2    1983       1966
eamn  RPcs                 11.52     15.35      10.23      10.74     32.68    40.98      23.17    21.0
Grist  Bqtdimu             7.06       9.09       7.30       9.92     19.97     24.27     17.67     19.4
orist suplus    2/         4.68       6.26       2.43        .53     12.71     16.71     5.51      1.6
Cqiml Bwditua              5.73       4.34       2.93       3.85     16.25     11.58     6.65      7.5
tusiul Aescanm             1.80       0.83       0.83       -.22      5.12      2.21      I.S      -.4
MM. atrr *   PRWIS
Stl.tuc Swits
Dec. 190           Dec. 1961           De. 1982            Dec. 1983
.'iv h   ax  d qu's-uy              12.50               17.19               16.16              17.55
IBk Cadct to PUbLIc Sector          18.50               18.28               15.59             17.78
Irk Cxdit to PrIme ecr               1.21                1.02                0.59              0.63
1g90               1961                1962               1963
Mb.y ad quasi-immy a s   of         77G 4               49.69               39.86             60.2a
GCwal Prime lrtex (1981-lC00)       91.9               100.0               106.4              116.4
hmael 2 ChO' iin:
Ba  CCt to  ublc Sector          114.9               4.65               -10.00              14.34
fla credit to Privat Setor        60.3               -16.0              -62.16               6.71



-   34   -     RPURLIC Oil c11umrA                   6 ef 6
TRw      PAIMT  MD CAPITA FLOWS
BALAC  OF PATNhT
1979    1980    1931    1962    1982  I9I
exports of Coods                           366      496      493      64       SO    532
Imports of Coeds                          -335    -395    -6S       -380    -380   -438
Trade Balance                                31      101      68       66      123     96
Servicea and Private Transfers (net)    -97         -99    -128    -IZ    -140   -140
Interest M & LtT Debt                   -23      -23      -22     -25      -21    -21
toeetuet Income                         -16      -40     -56      -56      -70    -69
Other Servie-s (not)                    -49      -23      -61     -36      -40    -40
Workers  Remittances                      7       -8       -9      -9       -9    -10
Official Tr stfers (net)                      9       17      16       26       is     19
talDen   on Current Account                -57       19      46      -36         1    -27
Dtr-ce Foreign Investment                    17      22       30       28       31     34
Net MLT Borrowing                            37       14      58       20       62    -25
Dimbursemecs. Public Borraving          131      119      142      87       92      79
Amortieacion. Public Borrowtng          -65      -73      -a1     -53      -46    -84
Subeotal, Public Borroving               66       66       at       36      46      -5
Private Sector (net)                    -29      -32     -23      -1-       16    -20
Other Capital tnea,                         -1         I      11       31      -3    -12
Other lce    n.i.e -                       -82      -90      -99      -56    -153    -93
Change in Reserves C- - increase) 5'         29      34       72       11      62      63
Crass Reserves   end wear)                  65      101       92      133      129
aet Reserves (end wear) 5t                -2o0     -o40      -76      -87    -162   -205
Fuels and Related Macerisls
isportr                                  56       86       91      86       83      87
of which:  Petroleum                     56       54       97      86       83      87
Exports                                      0        0        a        0       0       0
RATES OF E7CI3ACE -
1975    1476    1977   1978   1979   1980   3981   1982   1963   1984
SylisIuSS   20.33   21.38   21.1'  19.72  19.11  18.97  20.93  22.36  23.37  24.29
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average IORO-8:1            EXTEXRIAL DFBT. December 11  1856
(in censtant 1982 prices)
UCS rn                                                  rss mn
BUuxite               114          I       Public Debt
Alumirn               123         Z6        Encluding Undisbursed        1570.:
Diamonds                5          I       Outstanding & Disbursed       1167.1
agricultural
Coamodicies           a          7
Total                *71         Inc       rEsb  SERVtCE RATIOS FOR 19zq
ERDIM:DA LENDINC "arch I1. 1985)                 Scheduled Service Pamnents   44.3
21SS Uln                Public                       34.0
IBRD        IDA             Private Debt Non
Cusranceed                11.3
Outtacnding L
Disbursed           41.5      108.3
L'ndlsburs.d          3.0 0    86.
Outstsanding
including
undlsbursed         .1.5     194.7            Actual Service Payments
Public Debt                  1Q.9
Private Debt Non Guarant'd n.e.
1/ Merchandise ernorr.1inportq only.
21  Including capital transfers to. and investment on behalf of. state
enterprtse4.
3/ CDP isplicti  deflator.
6/ Includes errors and oeisslons. and SDOR allocations in 1980 and 1981.
5/ Discrepsncies due to different exchange rates.
6/  Debit balance of 5Z13 aillion under bilateral peent arrangements
conerted 1401-112 to tLT loan.
7/  Period geometric average.
8/  Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.
Novembr. 1985



-35-
AMS 2
Pape  of o
HE FMPL"SLIC Or rrDIFA
SL~='rXAt 7FnjrTs%'r CRO'
A. Sratement of Bankc l wtos amd DA Credits ras of SeDteter 30, 1985) *
Amht (ssc         l)
(LBS 'fLlon)
Credit
'1=i,er      year   BorroP s                                        Back       MA 11 Undisbursed 1/
Iw  loans and three Credits ha%v been fullv disbesed               73.50      28.99
870-G;I      1979   Odnea        rirst tarr Supply and SanItt                 12.50       0.74
952--GMI     190   Curea         Rice Devel1xzt                               10.40       1.53
953-1Q       1980   Qzine        Seonrd EI&Uy                                 13.00       0.26
1063-OI      1981    q4nea       Livestock Developrit                          2.11       0.15
085-WI       1981   tiiea        PoImr                                        28.50       0.66
1234-WI      1982   QAinea       Insrrial R         rab til-                  19.00      12.03
and Prmotion
134 1-WI     1983   Guinea       SelKi Fdcatica                              11.00       8.55
1382-Gil    1983   Guinea        Conakry Port                                 13.00       4.25
1438-WI      1984   Guinea       Petrolemn Exploration Paxtimn                 8.00       5.81
145,71-I     1991   G Cubnea     -hib_d 'igz                                  28.00      26.07
1'5E6--I    1984   Guinea        Conakry Urbai Deelopment                     IO.70       9.55
1559-GrI 2,  1985   Guinea       T.A. for ic-:vic Manapecent                  9.50        9.29
1595-G      1985   Guinea        Second Pormer 1 Tech. Assistance             8.00        8.00
TctaJ.                                        73.50    202.70       86.89
of -tich has beern repaid                   34.04       0.00
Total w  held by Bank ard DA 3/               39.46    202.70
Total xrdisbursed                              0.0       86.89      86.89
11 BegMing with Credit 1063-aI, Credits have been dc-Inared in Special.Drawng Rights. The doLLar
wats in these cclns represent the dol",r quivalent at the tim of credit negoEtiaicns for the
DA amm=ts ard the dollar equivalerrs as of Sepreber 30, 1985, for the urnisbrsed mcmts.
(1 Ss - USS1.05940).
2/ Not vet effective.
PrIor to ewhm%e adfustnxnts.
* Te stat=s of the pro4ects listme in Part A is described in a separate report an al-l Bank/MAL
tnxwndal panlectS In emetion, uhidch is updated twice yearlv and cirozlated to the Executive
Directors an 4pril 30 ard Cctober 31.



-36-
)I~ 7
Page 7 of I
B.  Stateznit cf flC Tmrs=cgnts (as of Seterter 30. 1985)
Fiscal Year      ObiTr Tpe of 3asfrass                                      Lcan     Ecirav         Tctal
1983         Sodkti ;,d=, Aredor QGdrLe, S.A.  Dizznd Xftlng            13.6        1.3          14.8
Total Gross Crindrents                                     13.6        1.2          14.8
Law              , Te      t:s,
RP,q3ts and Sal                                            0.1         -            0.1
Total Cccmients  now held by It                            13.5        1.2          14.7
Uuilisbursed Bal an                                         0.0        C.O           0.0



-37-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
a)   Request from the new Guinean Government
for IDA and IMF assistance to
design an economic recovery program           April 11, 1984
b)   Identification mission:                        May-June 1984
Establishment of working group and core
committee
c)   Pre-appraisal mission
(joint mission with IMF)                 October 1984
d)   Appraisal mission (joint mission with IMF)   March 1985
e)   Post-appraisal missions                        July and September 1985
f)   Negotiations                                  December 5-12, 1985
g)   Planned date of Effectiveness                 March 10, 1986
h)   Target date for Second Tranche release         August 15, 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Consultants hired under Credit 1559-GUI (Technical Assistance Project
for Economic Management) assisted in the preparation of the structural
adjustment program, and under a SPPF advance helped prepare the civil
service reform.
Before effectiveness, the Government would establish a Special Account at
BCRG to receive proceeds of the proposed Credits.
Before release of the second tranche, the Government would:
(a)  promulgate an Investment Code, along with suitable implementation
procedures, a Petroleum Code and a revised Commercial Law accept-
able to the Association; (paras. 33, 42);
(b)  reduce the number of public employees by at least 10,000 persons
below the number on duty on January 1, 1986 (para. 49);
(c)  have agreed and begun to implement the liquidation program for
the state-controlled primary banks (para. 36);



-38-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(d)  have completed the second quarterly review of rice, coffee, palm
kernels and petroleum product prices and implemented their
conclusions in a manner satisfactory to the Association (paras.
25, 27, 28);
(e)  review rice stocking and distribution arrangements for 1986
(para. 27);
(f)  negotiate a multilateral debt reschedulivg (para. 14).
In addition, the Government has agreed to:
(a)  consult with the Association before formation of or taking
participation in new state enterprises, (para. 40);
(b)  consult with the Association prior to making any changes in its
contractual or fiscal arrangements pertaining to the exploitation
of bauxite (para. 42);
Cc)  require its agencies and departments to pay charges for water and
electricity delivered to them not later than 30 days after
receipt of the bill;
(d)  establish, not later than March 31, 1986, a plan of action,
acceptable to the Association, for the restructuring of its
non-industrial parapublic sector (para. 43).



-39-
A4N 4
Page 1 of 5
These I (before 1/06/86)          Phase II (1/06/86-12131/86)            Roas III (1987- )
/12Etary/FJ~chaw Rate Policy
Restrict foreip excnge               Exend floating.                      Eran-  possibility of
activitie  of specialized banks     market-deteOIfnd exhange rate          reetry to Franc Zone
<BCD(09/11/85) *                     to all transactlios thrcugi foreip
-um auction
<BC (3/31/86) *
Ope "secd whidct' for
forein exhang  operatis              Introduce Qinean Pranc (mt
<BaG> (10/07/85) *                   <BCRG> (Jammiry 1986)*
Create new camurcial banks           Agree Gn pmgrn for liquidatim
(August-December 1985)              of state baniks <BCRD (03/31/86) #
Su--Ve1 banking operatics of
state-controlled ba
(12/23/85)                                                                Introduce iore spel4aLized
banking funtions ard other
Crdit and mney supply celing          f     l sector reforms
Reorpnize Central Bak                <BCRC> *
(September 1985) *
ldicilateral debt rescheduling
OMI> (first quarter 1986) 1
Price Adjusmte  and
Maxket LTberalizatim
Abolish forced varketirg of          Adjust pric  of rice and             Akmual review of coffee and
agricultural products                petroleum quarterly to reflect        palm kernl prices
(April 1984)                          Qort prices arnd eange rate         <R,>
mavemnits <SEC, MDR> #
Abolish state cattle murketing                                                     ive dls<-ent of
agecy and state collective                                                 Gover       rcm rice and
farms (April 19B4)                  Adjust public utility prices          petroletm import, handling
quarterly to reflect cost of          and storage
Remvve road controls betseen         prnduction, especially imported
the reginns OMay 1984)               inputs <SED
Decontrol of producer prices
(1985 season)
Awrkx.ce new coffee/palm kernel      Adjust coffee/palm kenmel prices
prices <SB:. MDR> (12/16/85)         <SEC, MDR> (6/30/86) #
Increase prices of rice and
petroleum to reflect import
prices and now exchange rate *
<SEC, MID (t/d6/86)
* denotes DMF conditim. fl denotes Second Tranche conditim-



-40-
ANE 4
Pape 2 of 5
Phase I (before 1/06/86)         Phase II (1/06/86-12/31/86)            Ptas III (1987- )
Agd"wre1 Sector
Foimlate proceftres for              TA _ver by private sector of
moitorilag fertilizer use            all iqu supply and
(3/31186)  Mt>                       gi. ting activities
Ieia  rice soddrg anI
distxma
(06/30/86)
QM,qK #
Review supply and dIstruxi
of agricultural iputs, and
propose action progl  to esure
1986/87 supply
OM   (06/30/86)
Tariff Reform
Introdce s lified tariff
strcture  MEF       (1/31/86)
Replace Import licensing
procedures with import
dedaxatios handled du
c_mn!rcial banks SED (1/31/86)
Review apprxaiateness of tariff      Purter revisiai in liUt of
structure and effectiveness of       rates in neiW3oring
custom pr uced                       c     ar
MEFIdustrie> (11/15/86)               E>
Fcoitnlmc fEvirooment for           Praxilgte Hiing Code
I rivate Investment                 <HRKE   (1/31/86)
Revise Cmraial Law                   Revise invesxrt
<SED Ivimeat. speialy
financial sector
Promigate Petrolan Code after        OIMBCRI)
ccqw~isc  of productiga shrirg
vs joint venture arraagemits
a     #
P tmilate revised Tnest-ziWt
Code and applicatim procedures
HPCR  (6/30/86) t
*deotes IM  cmditixi  I denotes Secnd Trandie condition.



-41-
Am=c 4
Page 3 of 5
Phase I (before 1/06/86)         Phase II (1/06/86-12/31/86)            Phase III (1987- )
Public Sector na!L=
and Reform
Unificatiao of Govewnit
hidget and transer of extrnal
debt m         to MT
(09/11/85)
Formulate no public sector          IWlemit new Goverrmt
pIroureIente lgatiaim <DP>         prOazrant procedmes,
(11/30/85)                          <P> (01/31/86)
Rer ewmernal baeromi
Iprocedures/policy
<MlCI.(EF> (11/30/86)
Undertake civil service 
and study of Goven. et
organizatim
(August-Deacber 1985)
RPxve public enterprise                                                   Adjust civil service salary
employees fron civril service rols                                        scales
;MFPRA> (12/23/85)                                                        <CRA.MEF> (01/01/87)
Introduce salary compensation       Reduce public emiployees by a
for rice and transport              further 10,000 staff
<CGEA,MEF> (1/l/86)                 <cGRA> (06/30/86) #
Pay salaries aid rice allone
of staff placed "in reserve" for
six unths follung lay-off
<OGMMEF>
Review proposals for                  mplt decenttalizatim of
decentralzation of Governmet         Goverrment functions
operations and revemue soces         <(IRA> (1987-89)
<coGRAMeF>
*detes IW1 a%ditimn. #doeno Sec- Trnce  cmdsition.



-42-
Amc 4
Page 4 of 5
Phes I (before 1/06/86)          Phase 1I (1/06/86-12/31/86)            besae III (1987- )
Publc Itvestamt
Restricted 1986 Public              Undertake re new investent in
Invest       Prm  (lndted to        public enterprie  or mind            Start   latatlml of new
Completion of atgoiDg, viAble       copamwes ecpt In context of          st gies and ivestmt
projects)                           agreed          t    projects        progrm
<HPCI>                              <DM,>                                <tecmical mUtistries>
I  reraqed  ntorng
Ccplete and rWei mater               p oe  M          EF>
plans md sector investit
strtePgies for:
Agris:ltue <tD
Pbwer <SE
Water <SE
(06/30/86)
and Trfanso  L:SM  (09130/86)
Caoplete educatiAol and priny
health sector strategles before
new investmnts are undertake
ODIE,ISPPAS>
Introduce tee-year investmet
prgrang with rew procedures
die CD
*deldtes IMF cm-ition.   doe s8k Trnh cdti.



-43-
Annm 4
Page 5 of 5
Ebase I (before 1/06/86)         Phase II (1/06/86-12/31/86)           Phase III (1987- )
Parapublic Biterprise Reform
Prse and appmve paraiblic          Establish a plan for                  Reviw and enhance incentives
rat]walzatkn/divestiture            restructuring                        for private sector job
strategy ad actimi plmn            the rtm-Industrial                   creaticm
for industrial siterprlss          parapUlic sector <tXEF>
<C=EF> (11/30/85)                  (3/31/86)
LiqMate 19 Industrial and 4         Carry out ratialitln
rt-bxlustrial public enteprises,   prog ans per agreed sqdules
aid EP(fAs                          <CCEF>
-C,F.IXI,           (12/31/85)
Agree public  1terprise woxkig      Review statutes of public
capital. credit and foreip         utilities (poHe, water.
exche provisins  hile               eele tims) and take
sector is belg* restructured       rmdial legal action to amnd
CF,.MFNC,G> (12/12/85)              if needed <CCF,SEE.MC>
Suspend Air Guin's                  Revise autamly pravisicas in
international services *           port, airport ard railmy
(1/2/86)                           statutes
(SEE> (04/30/86)
Revise mnwi  sector legal and
taxation arrmlgaeets
Revise Air Cuin6e staute
<SEI> (06/30/86)
* deotes IMF ccziditimXi. I denotes Second Tranche condition.



-44-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 15
GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The Military Committee for National Reform (CMRN), which took power
on April 3, 1984, inherited from its predecessors a catastrophic economic
situation.
2.    Despite the importance of its natural resources -- agricultural,
mineral and hydroelectric, the standard of living in Guinea remains one of
the lowest in Africa. The quality of its public educational and health
services remains quite mediocre. The public sector is characterized by a
surplus of personnel. A system of generally non-performing parastatals
dominates the economy. The banking system does not function. The commer-
cial public sector is inefficient and poorly adapted to the needs of the
population. Only the min.ag sector has escaped the deterioration of the
economy, and remains the mainstay of Guinea's foreign exchange and budget-
ary resources.
3.    Except in the mining sector, nearly all production is marketed
outside official channels. Imports and exports are mainly smuggled,
leading to a parallel market for foreign exchange. The difference between
the official and market exchange rates has led to increasing fraud, corrup-
tion and waste, owing to the considerable gap between the price of goods
imported at the official rate and the prices resulting from the free
interplay of market forces.
4.    Changing the course of the economy demands strong measures to in-
crease agricultural production and exports, to rehabilitate the viable
portion of the industrial sector, and to reestablish in the medium term
equilibria in the balance of payments and in public finances. The Govern-
ment has firmly decided to take the stabilization, rehabilitation and
recovery measures needed to break from the past and ensure the long-term
growth of the economy in line with the country's potential. The ultimate
objective of the reform and structural adjustment program is to ensure
Guinea's people a higher standard of living, by developing the considerable
potential of the country and entering into a sustained period of growth in
production.
5.    As the President announced in his Speech on April 3, 1985, first
anniversary of the Second Republic, the Government intends to let private
initiative express itself freely in the productive sectors, and to reduce
considerably the role of the State. In this regard, all state monopolies,
except the public utilities, have been abolished. The Government has
already eliminated all restrictions on internal commerce by removing
control points between the regions. eliminating obligatory product market-
ing according to production quotas. and closing the state agro-pastoral
collective farms (FAPAs), the regional enterprises for livestock marketing
(ENCOBEs), and the state import monopoly, IMPORTEX. The effects of these
measures were felt soon after their introduction: a noticeable increase in
the trading of food products in rural areas as well as che appearance of
greater quantities of locally produced rice, vegetables, and meat products
available in urban marketplaces.



-45-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 15
6.    The elaboration of this program of interrelated reforms, touching all
aspects of the Guinean economy, required careful overall coordination. To
ensure the success of this process, the Government established an Economic
and Financial Coordinating Committee (CCEF), chaired by the Minister of
State for Planning and Natural Resources and including the Minister of
Economy and Finance, the Minister of Commerce and the Vice-Governor of the
Central Bank. The Minister of State for the Civil Service and Adminis-
trative Reform joins the committee for all matters concerning administra-
tive reform and the civil service. To carry out its work of policy reform,
the CCEF is assisted by seven sector working groups, responsible for the
restructuring of the industrial and non-industrial parapublic sector, the
restructuring of the Central Bank, the creation of new banking institu-
tions, foreign exchange operations, public finance and the administration.
The Economic Reform Program
7.       The Government's program consists of a series of economic policy
measures and institutional reforms. Its main objective is to create a
liberal economic environment, by a series of measures to support private
sector investment and activity throughout the economy, and the clarifica-
tion of the legal framework in which these activities take place.
(a) a new Commercial Law came into effect on May 13, 1985, and
will be revised in the coming months, in light of the changing
environment of competition that we seek to encourage. At the same
time the monopoly of all public commercial enterprises was abol-
ished;
(b) the Investment Code of October 3, 1984 will be modified by
mid-January 1986, in order to simplify its procedures and rein-
force its intent of encouraging private Guinean and foreign
investment. The new version introduces economic criteria for the
choice of investments to benefit from the Code's provisions. It
eliminates discrimination against small-and medium-sized local
entrepreneurs. This modified code will be promulgated and the
Investment Commission in MPRN will be restructured and suitably
staffed to ensure the needed level of efficiency. Investors not
seeking the advantages of the Code will receive automatic regis-
tration with the tax authorities.
(c) a new Banking Law came into effect on March 6, 1985, as part 3f
the Government's overall reform of banking Institutions, including
the Central Bank. Already, three commercial banks with substan-
tial foreign participation have opened their doors in Conakry to
serve the growing needs of the private sector.
Bn:t, important as they are to remove the restrictions of the past on
private initiative, these measures are insufficient: a fundamental monetary
reform is the prerequisite to remove the distortions in incentives that
have so far prevented Guinea from realizing its potential.



-46-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 15
The Monetary Adjustment
8.       With the objective of unifying the official and parallel market
exchange rates into a system where market prices permit a rational alloca-
tion of resources, the Government has carried out an exchange rate adjust-
ment. A second window for foreign exchange transactions was opened on
October 7, 1985. To create a new savings instrument and facilitate the
operation of the new exchange rate system by reducing the liquidity in the
money supply, Treasury bonds will be issued.  These bonds bear a rate of
interest of 35 percent.  On January 6, 1986, the Central Bank will intro-
duce the sale of foreign exchange according to weekly auctions conducted
through the new commercial banks. The single, floating market determined
exchange rate will be extended to all foreign exchange transactions.   A
new monetary symbol, the Guinean Franc, will be introduced and will pro-
gressively replace the sylis in circulation.
The adjustment of prices
9.       The major objective of the Government's economic policy is to
reestablish a flexible and coherent structure of domestic prices and
production costs allowing the recovery of national production - especially
agriculture -- and the reunification of the official and parallel markets
into a single, well-functioning market. The objective will be complete
price liberalization. First, certain parallel market transactions, which
already take place according to prices freely set by market mechanisms,
will be integrated into official channels. This will be achieved by
permitting the private sector to import directly the entire range of
products, with the exception of armaments and narcotics. This
"officialization" of formerlv clandestine trade will also generate new
revenues for the state.
10.      The Government has prepared a series of measures to spur agricul-
tural and industrial production and encourage private initiative in all
areas, particularly commerce and transport. The adjustment of the exchange
rate has naturallv led to an increase in the prices of goods hitherto
imported through official channels at the previous seriously overvalued
rate. This helps reestablish flexible prices and production costs through-
out the economy, replacing the previous system of administered prices. To
arrive at the objective of unifying the price structure in light of market
realities -- a system of real prices -- two goods, rice and petroleum
products, merit particular attention.
11.      For holders of ration cards, the official price of rice in state
stores was 20 sylis per kg. The quantities distributed this way have so
far been insufficient to meet the needs of the urban population, some
90,000 tons per year, with the resulting observed price of imported rice in
the market of 90 to 160 sylis/kg in Conakry, depending on the season. From
January 6, the price of imported rice will be raised to FG80/kg and the
system of ration cards abolished. Sufficient quantities will be placed on
the market by the Guinean Commercial Company (SGC), a new enterprise, with
private sector participation. The price of FG80/kg is derived from the
sale price of a 50kg bag of rice, which is set at FG4000. This price was
established taking into account the current world market price of rice and



-47-
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 15
the different supply sources, notably concessional assistance. This price
will be reviewed every three months in order to take account of these
different factors and to prevent unfair competition with locally-produced
rice on the Conakry market. If needed, an import duty on rice imports could
be envisaged. Although SGC will initially operate on the Government's
behalf for importation and wholesale distribution of rice and in particular
for the handling of food aid, the private sector is now free to import
rice.
12.      Petroleum Products.  On January 6, the base pump prices of motor
fuel, diesel and kerosene will be increased from 30 sylis to FG115 per
liter throughout the country. The prices of these products will be adjust-
ed every three months as a function of the import cost and, to avoid
fraudulent exports, of the cost in the bordering countries.
13.      Agricultural Inputs.  The Government has noted the poor perfor-
mance of SEMAPE, the state agency responsible for importation of fertiliz-
ers and other needed inputs, and wishes to see put in place a supply and
distribution system changed by the private sector exclusively. To do so,
the policy of the Government is that inputs should fully reflect the cost
of purchase (or in the case of seeds, of production), storage and distribu-
tion. Only in this way can the private sector play the desired role, and
the producer, who is equally free to market his production at the price he
wishes, fullv appreciate the price (and value) of the inputs. In an
interim period preceding the assumption of this role by the private sector,
the Government has decided that all agricultural inputs procured by the
Government or with external resources will be sold to the producers at
prices which fully reflect costs.
14.      Export Crops.  Coffee and palm kernels will also be marketed by
the private sector. PROSECO will continue to operate in parallel to
private agents, and will establish two or three purchasing centers in
Conakry. The price offered by PROSECO will not be less than 80 percent of
the fob export price, and will be widely advertised in the producing areas.
On December 16, the Ministry of Trade announced that the price at which
PROSECO would buy coffee and palm kernels had been set at FG500/kg and FC
100/kg respectively. Indicative prices at the producer level are FG 400/kg
*           for coffee and FG60/kg for palm kernels. The adequacy of these prices will
be reviewed by June 30, 1986 at the latest and adjustments will take
account of the evolution of domestic marketing channels as well as of
prices on the world market.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
15.      One of the main objectives of the reform program is to arrive at
an effective Government structure with a greatly reduced number of staff.
The reduction in numbers will make possible a significant real increase in
salaries. This will improve Government efficiency and cost-effectiveness,
and improve its image in the eyes of the public by transforming the admin-
istration into a modern and well-motivated public service.



-48-
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 15
16.      The first steps in this reform have already been taken:
(a) a full census of all civil servants and public enterprise employ-
ees has been under way since October 15, 1985. The results for
Conakry and for the entire country will be available in
mid-January and end-March, respectively. They will serve as the
basis for the reorganization and reduction in staff levels;
(b) all public enterprise employees will cease to be civil servants on
December 31, 1985;
(c) all employees of mixed-economy enterprises, in particular the
mining companies, who retain their posts as of December 31, 1985,
will be excluded from the civil service;
(d) following the closure of the banks which are slated liquidation,
employees of these banks will be placed in the "Civil Service
Reserve".
17.      Civil service staffing regulations will be defined by the govern-
ment during the first quarter of 1986. New recruitment will be limited to
highly qualified personnel and will be based on competitive examinations.
18.      In parallel with the census, the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform has begun an evaluation of the real staffing needs of
the different services and public utilities. This evaluation will be
completed by June 30, 1986, at the latest. The current employees will be
tested in order to determine which should be maintained in the "Public
service of Reform" and which will be placed in reserve before retraining
for the new responsibilities at the civil service or reconversion to other
occupations, mainly in the private sector. One of the major objectives of
the Government in the area of administrative reform is the organization of
the population around local commurities. These communities should become
the major catalysts for development and acquire the capacity to
self-govern. The decentralization of responsibility will thus lead the
local authorities to take charge of the daily lives and public service
needs of the local population, the most important of which are education
and primary health care. In the medium term, the salaries of education and
health personnel will be transferred to the local authorities, following a
study of the tax potential of these units, and in recognition of the need
for local control of these staff and commitment to their performance.
19.      The automatic retirement at age 55 and the removal from the rolls
of all fictitious employees or those irregularly hired will allow for an
updating of the size of the civil service. The objective of the Government
is to have in place, by June 30, 1986, a "Civil Service of Reform", for the
most important departments, namely Civil Service and Administrative Reform,
Plan and Statistics, Economy and Finance, Trade and Industry. To achieve
this result, approximately 10,000 employees will have either left the civil
service or been placed in reserve by that date. This process of adminis-
trative reform will continue during the second half of 1986. At the end of
the year, the "Civil Service of Reform" will comprise 14,000 civil
servants, while approximately 23,000 employees will have either left the
civil service or been placed in reserve.



-49-
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 15
20.      The private sector will in future be the main source of employment
creation in the Guinean economy. The Government intends that most jobs
will, in the short term, be found in the agricultural sector, i.e, outside
of Conakry, or in small scale private enterprises. The supply of agricul-
tural inputs and the decontrol of prices should create incentives to return
to the land. The liberalization of commerce, banking and import procedures
should permit the development of small-scale private activities, already a
major source of employment generation in urban areas. The Government will
also investigate means of providing retraining to those interested, so that
they can more easily find new jobs outside the administration or the public
enterprises. To alleviate the consequences of these staff reductions in
Conakry, the Government is preparing a works program of physical improve-
ments to public buildings and spaces, as well as traffic control measures.
SALARY POLICY
21.      The objective of public sector salary policy is to motivate staff
by a significant real increase in their remuneration. This of course is
possible only when the staffing levels are brought to a level compatible
with budgetary resources and the real needs of the administration and the
remaining state enterprises.
22.      In the intermediate phase, while staff levels are being reduced,
temporary allowances will be accorded to compensate for the increase in the
prices of rice, petroleum products and transport. As rice is the principal
subsistence food, starting January 6, 1986, all civil servants and state
enterprise employees will receive a monthly subsistence allowance of
FG3000, compensating for the increase in price from 20 sylis/kg to FG80/kg
for a family consuming 50 kg of rice per month. The subsistence allowance
will also be accorded to those staff placed in reserve, and this will be
addiitonal to their base salaries.  The increase in transport costs will be
partially compensated by a transport allowance, to be paid only to those
civil servants on active duty (i.e. not in reserve). There will be no
generalized salary increase during this interim phase. A revaluation of
civil servant salaries could be envisaged from January 1, 1987, once the
administrative reform period has ended. But in the meantime, a ministry
may use part or all of the budgetary savings resultin; from staff
*           reductions to pay productivity allowances to the best-performing staff.
23.      These employment and salary measures taken together will bring the
monthly salary bill, which stood at 500 million sylis in November, 1985 for
approximately 63,000 civil servants and 28,000 staff of public enterprises,
to FG 695 million for 55,000 civil servants (including 3500 placed in
"reserve") by June, 1986.  In December 1986, the total monthly salary bill
for 40,000 active employees and 12,000 reserve staff is estimated at FG975
million.
EXTERNAL TRADE
24.      There will be a radical simplification of procedures for exporting
and importing. An export/import declaration form, granted without selec-
tivity to all registered traders, will henceforth consist of a one-page
form in four copies, (for the client's bank, for the Central Bank, and two
for the client). It will contain the following information:



-50-
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 15
a) the name and business activity of the exporter/importer;
b) the nature of the good exported/imported (with reference
to the UMOA nomenclature);
c) the volume and fob (cif) value of the exported (imported)
product; and
d) the final destination (origin) of the product.
The form, which will be completed at the commercial bank to which the
client applies for foreign exchange within the content of the auction
system, will not require other Government approval. The client will submit
one cepy to the customs service before the customs clearance of the mer-
chandise, which will serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes and
duties to be collected by the customs service. After recording by the
Treasury, this copy will be sent to the Statistical Directorate of MPRN.
This procedure will become effective on January 1, 1986.
25.      For the next few years. bauxite exports will continue to dominate
Guinea's foreign exchange earnings. The Government remains preoccupied
with the need to come to a fair and reasonable solution to proposed changes
on the bauxite export and profits tax arrangements with its partners, and
had engaged investment bankers to help elaborate and negotiate such a
scheme. Given its impact on Guinea's external balance and public finances,
any proposed change to the existing arrangements will be carefully reviewed
and discussed with the IMF and IDA, prior to entering into any commitments.
EXTERNAL DEBT
26.      The Government considers that a straightening out of the external
debt situation is the necessary condition for the efficient mobilization of
new international financing. This clean-up must take place in the context
of a rescheduling, reflecting the principles of multilateralism and equal
treatment among creditors. To prepare for this rescheduling, the Covernment
has already initiated an audit of its external debt, based on documentation
of the Central Bank and exchanges of information with foreign creditors.
27.      The Government considers that the rescheduling should cover both
arrears and 1986 obligations. It will therefore seek a rescheduling from
all creditors with the exception of multilateral organizations, including
all debts now reimbursed under barter arrangements with bauxite and all
other commodities.  Such arrangements will be strictly avoided in future.
28.      The Government proposes that the rescheduling in the context of
the Pari; Club cover all arrears, interest on arrears, and obligations
falling due in 1986.
29.      Consistent with the basic principle of multilateral rescheduling,
the Government insists that debt contracted with all sources of financing
be renegotiated on comparable terms.



5.-
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 15
30.      To restrain its future external debt obligations, the Government
has introduced strict controls on external debt contracted or guaranteed by
the State, and has fixed ceilings on short term debt and suppliers' credits
at non-concessional terms. From now until the end of 1986, the Government
will neither contract nor guarantee any new medium or long term debt at
other than concessional terms, as defined by the OECD.
31.      All debts contracted or guaranteed by the state now require the
prior approval of the Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee
(Ordonnance No    of December __, 1985).  Such proposed borrowings require
the visa of the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has the exclusive
right to borrow on behalf of the Government.
USES OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE
32.      The Government has decided to introduce economic measures in order
to cope with the constraints in Guinea's foreign exchange resources. To
support its efforts to contain the growing imports of motor fuel, the
Government has taken steps to cut down official use by its own departments
and agencies. Consistent with its orientation to pricing measures, this
will require strict adherence to budgets allocated to each Ministry, and
reduction in the number of vehicles authorized to fuel up at Government gas
stations. This will contribute to the efforts to contain the 1986 gasoline
import bill at US$40 million, only US$2 million higher than the 1985
amount. Access of public enterprises to foreign exchange will be
exclusively through the auction system -- at market prices -- for those
imports necessary for their operations. Thus, only those industrial
enterprises to be maintained will have access to foreign exchange; for
those companies in liquidation, no foreign exchange will be allocated.  In
addition, the Government plans to reduce the number of its embassies and
foreign missions abroad, to save US$5 million per year, or about 25 per-
cent. Foreign travel by Government employees will similarly be curtailed.
Important savings, estimated at US$3 million per year, should result from
the measures applicable to public sector operations.
33.      To simplify and improve budgetary operations in foreign exchange,
three changes have been introduced.  First, all ministries anticipating
foreign payments for goods and services are obliged to supply this informa-
tion to the Central Bank. Secondly, all Government earnings in foreign
exchange will be surrendered to the Central Bank. Thirdly, the Government
will sign no contracts where payment is linked to export commodities, and
will take steps to remove this provision in existing contracts.
REFORM OF CUSTOMS TARIFFS
34.      A new customs tariff will come into effect on January 6, 1986.  It
is based on two concepts:
(a) simplicity, to enable its rapid implementation; and
(b) a reduction in rates to offset the increase in the taxable base
resulting from the exchange and trade liberalization, to contain



-52-
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 15
the increase in the price of imports, and to remove the temptation
to fraudulently avoid payment of duty.
35.      The introduction of the new tariff is expected to have a consider-
able revenue-increasing impact. This is an important goal, in light of the
need to expand and diversify State revenues, which are now overly dependent
on taxes on mineral exports.
36.      The current input tariff system is based on three main categories
of imports: 1) goods of primary necessity with tariff rates ranging from 10
to 40 per cent for its three sub-categories, 2) large consumption goods
facing, in two sub-categories, duties of 41-50 percent and 3) luxury goods
with tariffs ranging from 51 to 120 per cent.
37.      Effective January 6, 1986, a single unified tax combining the
series of taxes previously levied will be introduced on the CIF value of
imports. There is a single tariff of 10 percent, applying to all goods
except rice, which is exonerated. This tariff will be reduced to 5 percent
for essential food products (edible oils, wheat flour, sugar, meat and
chicken, fish, milk concentrate and powder milk), petroleum products,
fertilizer and pesticides, other agricultural inputs, capital goods and
pharmaceutical products. A surtax of 20 percent will be applied to luxury
goods, including motor cars, cigarettes, foodstuffs, heavy appliances and
stereo equipment. A surtax of 30% will be levied on super luxury items
and/or high energy consumers, including on alcoholic beverages, fine
jewelry, vehicles other than those used for freight transport or public
transport, air conditioning equipment and television sets. These surtaxes
will apply equally and without discrimination to both locally-produced and
imported luxury goods. A turnover tax of 2 percent will be imposed on all
goods except rice. The appropriateness of these rates (which on some goods
seem low), and of customs procedures, will be reviewed by November 15, 1986
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in collaboration with the Ministry
of Industrial Development. Appropriate adjustments to take effect from
January 1, 1987 will be introduced at that time.
38.      The customs service will calculate the value of the duties on
imports on the basis of the applicable rate on the import declaration form.
The declared values will be verified on the basis of classh^al customs
procedures (acceptable value limits) using, in a transitory period, tables
of values which are revised bi-monthly. An automated system will replace
this practice before December 31, 1986.
39.      Concerning rice imports, the Government's decision to set the
wholesale price initially at FG80/kg would imply a farmgate price for paddy
of FG35-40/kg. This level would offer an important incentive for small
producers and should in the medium-term enable national production to cover
the country's needs, thus eliminating costly rice imports. If after one
year of operation, it is found that imported rice still enjoys an undesira-
ble advantage over local rice, the Government will consider introducing an
import tax on imported rice. Prices at the farmer level will, however, be
determined on the free market; the same holds true for all other agricul-
tural produce.



-53-
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 15
The Transport Sector
40.      The recovery in agricultural and industrial production can materi-
alize only if the new pricing policy is accompanied by supporting measures
in the transport sector. The effectiveness of the new commercial policy is
directly linked to the quality of the transport network. Urban public
transport will continue to be offered in part by private transporters, and
licences sball '.e issued without administrative delav for urban taxis and
minibuses. To zedress the inadequacy of the existing transport system, the
Government counts on the private sector to invest in the transport sector
and to progressively upgrade and expand the nation's trucking fleet.  In
this context, the monopoly of COTRA in long-distance freight transport and
of ENTRAT in freight handling and storage in Conakry has been abolished,
and private transporters are free to participate in all transport activi-
ties.
INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
41.      In addition to economic measures, the reconstruction of the
Guinean economy implies the complete institutional and legal reconstruction
of certain sectors. During 1986, this legal reform will be carried out in
the banking sector, public finance and the budget, and important changes
will be made in public administration and the state enterprise sector.
The Banking Sector
42.      The authorities have decided to close and liquidate the existing
speciali ed state-owned banks other than the Central Bank. The Central
Bank is -n the process of being reorganized. The liquidation of the
specialized banks, whose operations will cease before March 31, 1986, will
be completed according to a program to be designed by April 1, 1986. The
banking sector is being reconstituted, through the opening of commercial
banks with substantial private participation. The first two said banks,
BIAG, and BICI-GUI have already opened and a third, SocietA Generale,
totally private, will soon start operations. With the measures that have
been imposed in the context of the banking reform to eliminate fraudulent
transactions, this should establish the banking sector on a firm footing.
This restructuring, already underway, will lead to a rapid reestablishment
of banking services throughout the country.
RESTRUCTURING OF THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
43.      In support of its decision to create a liberal, private sector
oriented economy, and to very substantially reduce and eventually eliminate
the heavy burden of the state enterprises on Guinea's public finances, the
Government has decided to undertake a systematic review and reduction of
its interventions in these companies. The basic principles of this policy
to remove the State from the productive sectors, are:
(a) the encouragement of private initiative and the reintroduction of
free commerce;



-54-
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 15
(b)  the elimination of State monopolies in the Industrial, commercial
and transport sectors;
(c)  the final liquidation of an important number of non-performing
-ublic enterprises;
(d)  the systematic search for private investors or partners to take
charge of viable companies;
Ce)  a moratorium in 1986 on the creation of any new public enterprises
(with the possible exception of a telecommunications agency) or on
the Government's taking participation in any entities except
banks.
44.      The Government has already embarked on a program for its progres-
sive withdrawal from these activities, aimed at limiting the financial
involvement of the state and the role state enterprises play in the econo-
my. The Government has already liquidated IMPORTEX. It has also estab-
lished a program for the rehabilitation of viable enterprises, with private
partners bringing capital and management expertise, as indicated in
Ordonnance No. _  and _  of December__ 1985.  The Government will respond
favorably to initiatives from private interests to engage in activities
heretofore undertaken by public enterprises.  For the enterprises whose
financial and economic viability is shown but for which private partners
display little interest by June 30, 1986, the Government will decide
whether to liquidate these enterprises or to turn them over to their
employees. In the case of the public utilities (SNE, DEG, telecom-
munications, urban transport), the Government plans to negotiate
"contrats-plans". In light of specific and targeted recovery programs,
these agreements will set out the functions. objectives and respective
responsibilities of the enterprise and the state.
Restructuring of the non-industrial sector
45.      In recognition of the general principle that in a liberal economy
the role of Government as a sovereign regulator need not be expressed by
its holding shares in a company, the Government intends to withdraw from
the economic sectors in which private agents are already operating and in
which they indicate their interest. In the area of non-industrial compa-
nies, the Government intends to:
(a)  define clearly the classification of companies which might be
maintained in the State's portfolio (with rehabilitation or
eventual mergers) and those which are to be liquidated or
privatized;
(b)  carry out, before March 31, 1986, the action program on
non-industrial public enterprises, which were examined in the
preliminary report prepared by DFC of November 30, 1985. This
document gives the general principles for divestiture, develops
the detailed and dated action program and designates those
responsible for carrying it out.



-55-
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 15
Interim measures will be taken while the action program is being carried
out, including definition of working capital and credit requirements, and
rules for access to foreign exchange, as agreed with the IMF.
46.      The Government also intends to begin discussions in early 1986
with international petroleum companies, with a view to making them respon-
sible for the distribution and sale of petroleum products throughout the
country.
Restructuring of the Industrial Sector
47.      The restructuring of the industrial sector will be driven by the
same principles of economic viability and the association of private
Guinean or foreign partners to replace Government departments that current-
ly manage and control these companies. It is particularly important in the
industrial sector that private interests bring their management and organ-
izational skills, and their capital, to return these companies to the
levels of capacity utilization and quality needed to ensure their profit-
ability. The Government intends to proceed quickly to the closure and
liquidation of those companies that are not viable, whose equipment is too
outdated, or for whom partners cannot be found.
48.      The 45 industrial companies will be evaluated before the end of
1985, and partners will be sought during the first half of 1986. Companies
for whom partners have not been found by June 30, 1986, or for whom negoti-
ations with prospective buyers are not set up, will be liquidated.
Economic Management
49.      The Government has reorganized and begun to strengthen those
agencies charged with planning and the management of the State's finances.
Formal and on-the-job training is being undertaken for the staff of the
Ministry of Planning and Nataral Resources' Directorates of Planning and
Statistics, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank. This
staff development program is integrated into the agencies' work programs.
These core ministries will collaborate in the preparation of operational
documents essential to improving the allocation of scarce public resources.
These include:
(a) regulations governing all procurement by the public sector, to be
implemented by January 1, 1986.
(b) a three-year investment program, which will be annually revised.
The first will be prepared before June 30, 1986 covering 1986-88,
with particular emphasis on 1987 projects whose state of
preparation and contribution to sectoral objectives justifies an
early start and on those well justified projects for which
preparation is necessary.
(c) annual estimates of Guinea's national accounts, and important data
for economic decision-making;



-56-
ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 15
(d) manuals setting out the procedures for identification, preparation
and appraisal of public investments, which will be applied
throughout the Government by March 31, 1986;
50.      The Government has already taken steps to improve the project
cycle and procurement by clarifying the exclusive roles of the Ministry of
Planning and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Economy and Finance in
these tasks. During 1986, the CCEP will approve all foreign borrowing and
a subcommittee will coordinate foreign aid and the mobilization of balance
of payments support. In addition, the Directorate of Planning will have at
Its disposal a fund to be used for the preparation of bankable project
files; the projects, however, should be consistent with the sectoral master
plans which are being prepared by the technical ministries. These
decisions should to a great extent solve the problems encountered in the
past in investment choice and control of public contracts. To improve the
coordination of external financing for the public investment program, the
Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources is solely responsible, and will
work closely with technical ministries to seek foreign financing for
well-prepared projects.
PUBLIC INVESTMENT POLICY
51.      To support the medium term structural adjustment objective, the
Government intends to reorient its investment program toward the productive
sectors. The enactment of a liberal investment code and the creation of a
favorable economic environment should encourage a substantial increase in
private investment, almost non-existent in the past.
52.      The Government has already approved its public investment program
for 1986. It is strictly limited to the continuation of on-going projects
whose viability is certain and for wnich foreign financing at concessional
terms has been obtained. The public investment budget will be determined
during the first quarter of 1986, taking into account budgetary constraints
and external financing already secured. The Government will not begin any
investments not on this list. The Government will seek the agreement of
donors supporting projects that do not conform to the redefined investment
priorities to shift their financing to other high-priority rehabilitation
activities or to balance of payments support where appropriate.
53.      The public investment program gives first priority to projects
designed to increase smallholders agricultural production. The Government
intends to help farmers rehabilitate existing simple water control infra-
structure in the coastal regions, while concurrently seeking private
partners for the rehabilitation of viable agro-industries such as Daboya
(pineapples) and Salguidia (juice and canned fruit). The transport plan
now being prepared will include a medium-term program for the improvement
and maintenance of the feeder road network to allow the evacuation of
produce and the regular supply of rural areas with consumer goods to
provide needed incentives.  To improve health conditions and ensure ade-
quate watering of cattle. a long-term program of rural water supply will be
prepared as part of the national water supply program.
54.      The Government has begun the preparation of a long-term national
master plan for agriculture and the restructuring of the agricultural



-57-
ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 15
agencies. The implementation of this plan will demand new investments
compatible with the new, smallholders-oriented policy, and the reorienta-
tion and consolidation of support services: centers for production of
selected seeds, a national extension service, credit facilities through the
reformed banking system, and commercial distribution of agricultural inputs
such as fertilizer. As far as possible, distribution of inputs shall be
left to the private sector. The long-term program will be discussed with
the donor community in early 1986, to seek its help in preparing specific
sectoral and geographic in interventions support of the long-term strategy.
55.      In the non-agricultural sectors, the Government attaches priority
to the rehabilitation, maintenance and proper operation of existing
infrastructure and will encourage by the policy described above the
participation of the private sector in productive activities. The
Government is already implementing recommendations to simplify procedures
for private sector access to credit through the new commercial banks and to
encourage small and medium scale enterprises.
56.      Public services for water supply, electricity and telecommuni-
cations will be granted financial and managerial autonomy in new statutes
that will be promulgated and become operational during 1986. Their tariffs
will be increased periodically to fully reflect costs (especially of
foreign inputs). No investments for water and energy will be undertaken
except those identified under the master plans now under preparation.  A
telecommunications investment and maintenance program, including recommen-
dations for financial and management reforms for this important sector,
will be prepared in the first half of 1986. In recognition of the need to
set up these public utilities on a sound basis, the Government will avoid
the use of suppliers' credits for their investments, and will see that the
commercial risks are borne by these companies.
57.      In the transport sector, the GovernmLent is continuing the rehabil-
itation of the main highway network. Choice and financing of future
investments will be examined when the Transport Plan is completed in
mid-1986; until then, no transport investments will be undertaken.
Following a restructuring and rationalization study, Air Guinee's inter-
national services will be suspended on January 2, 1986.  The Government
will review and as necessary amend the statutes and financial procedures of
the Conakry Port Authority, the Agroport de Conakry and the Guinean Nation-
al Railway to ensure that they give sufficient autonomy to these agencies'
managements, consistent with sound operating and financial procedures.
Steps have already been taken to insure that PAC has full authority in port
area, as strict port security is essential to promote trade.
58.      The needs for investment in the education and health sectors are
considerable, but for the moment out of proportion with Guinea's resources.
The Government intends to make local authorities responsible for the
operating and maintenance costs, as well as for simple infrastructure, in
recognition of the commitment that communities ought to display in these
social services. The utmost care will be required in building new infra-
structure, consistent with the subsequent recurrent cost implications and
the need for retraining of existing personnel in both sectors. Sector
studies now under way will sketch out the needs for the next decade, and
the Government is now reviewing policy advice on primary and technical



-58-
ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 15
education reform, manpower requirements, costing and financing. These
policies will be implemented starting in school year 1987, and in the
meantime, the Government intends to avoid purchases of textbooks and
teaching materials, and conctruction of school facilities, except when
financed at concessional terms. The Government intends to identify and
implement manpower policies aimed at orienting new staff as well as as
retraining civil servants and employees of parastatals for private sector
employment. In the health and population sector, the main thrust will be
on primary health care development, nutrition programs and pharmaceutical
policies, (particularly in rural areas), organization and management of
health services and health manpower development. Until an appropria';e
investment strategy has been worked out, there will be no new investment in
health care facilities beyond the completing of almost-finished projects.
The crucial importance of these measures to begin Guinea's economic recov-
ery is beyond doubt. However, it is equally clear that the development of
the country to a level which is commensurate with its exceptional resource
endowments will not be achieved overnight. This will require long-term
consistency in the policies of the Government and a continued commitment to
change for the betterment of the entire population. In this context, while
this strategy will aim at increasing the share of national savings in total
domestic investment, we count on the financial and technical support of the
international community to make a success of a series of actions over the
next decade.
General Lansana Conte
President of the CMRN
Head of State
Conakry
December 19, 1985



ANEX 6
-59- _                                  r8-b1Taf 3
CUD1EA - BOOO    lDDICA:!
EPbxLation    : 5924 (nid-1984, dhwu=ad8s)
GNP Per Capita: US$300 (1984)
Amal. growth rate at 1982 cnstant pries
TIdicator           ncmlimi of GS                Actusl                              Projected
in 1982 
1980    1981    1982   1983  1984    1985(b) 1986   1987   1988   1989
,.t*ZMAL ALX.S                        -'L-
,Grnss dcmiestic product (a)  39113    2.6    0.6     1.8    1.3    1.6    2.4    3.1    4.7    6.2    8.3
Agri~sltore              T5ERM     3.7     1.2     2.3    1.0    1.7    3.0    3.0    3.5    7.5   11.8
*Indusory                 9115    7.4    -2.9      1.3    0.6    1.6    1.7    2.9    8.7    5.4    5.7
Services                 13942   -1.9      2.2     3.0    2.1    1.4    2.0    3.5    4.5    5.0    5.0
CoasumPtroln               32375    2.0     5.3      5.2    5.2    3.6    2.5    3.8    3.3    5.4    8.0
Cross Investment          -h  +27.0   -9.0    -2.0  -15.0  -10.0    3.0    7.0   10.0   12.0   15.0
Exports of GNFS            992W   12.9  -12.2    -2.6    8.2    7.4    4.3    2.b    9.1    4.2    2.6
Imports of GMFS            932   -6.8    27.3   -11.2    3.9    9.9    4.7    6.4    7.1    3.8    3.8
Gross National Savings      3533  498.7   -28.0   -10.4   11.9  -23.9   -4.1  -40.1   47.7   58.0    9.2
PES
GOP deflator                       87.6    95.8   100.0  115.0  127.0
^ebdange rate Cs/$                 18.97   20.93   22.36  23.09  24.29
Share of GDP at Market Prtces (Z)                Average Anmal Growth
(at constant prices)
1973    1975    1980    1985    1989        1973/75   1975/80   1980/85  1984/89
Gross Doestic Product      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          5.5        3.5       1.6      4.9
Agriazlture               46.3    43.3    42.4    41.2    40.0          2.1        1.5       1.6      5.4
-idustry                  15.0    22.0    23.8    13.1    13.9          7.7       4.9        0.9      5.1
Services                  38.7    34.7    33.8    32.4    32.B          3.1        4.2       2.4      4.1
C<wlsjuption               101.5    80.8    74.5    87.7    84.8         -5.5        1.8       4.4      4.4
Gxos lnvestmxs              19.R    17.6    l5.n    10.2    12.8         -1.0       0.1       -7.0      9.4
Exports GSFS                11.8    24.1    30.9    29.2    28.9         50.0       8.7        0.7      4.9
Inports(1GFS               33.1    22.5    20.3    27.0    26.5           n/a       1.4       6.6       5.4
Cross Natianal Savings       3.3     8.3    14.0      6.8    11.1          _         -       -13.9      7.5
PLIC FINANCE c/                                                (As % of GOP)
O                                     1973       1975        1980        1983       1984       1985(b)
Current reveie                      lZ.l       14.42  7                                      15.9
Cirrertt expndxiture                16.7       13.6       26.3         27.2       21.9       35.0
OIHMER UDDICATIRS         1975/80         1980/85        1984/89
wrowth rate %             3.2             2.0            6.6
NPca:ita groath rate %       0.4            -0.8            3.7
Population growth Z           2.8            2.8            2.8
(a) At Endbet prices, componeLts may be expressed at factor cost and wil1 not add due to exrlusion of net indirect
taxeS and subsidies.
hJreUdxalry est   ofbres8
(c TnclndiSng transfers to/fran public enterprises beglnnfrg 1983.



ANNFX 6
of 3
UTNDEA - EXrERNAL TRAIE
(In udllltns of US dollars)
CCEP0rrEIN OF IMPCS                 1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
(curret prices)
Total imports, c.i.f.                395       445      380       380       424      4J,8    511      587      658     740
Foodstuffs                          58       62        32        61       66        74      84       95       99     100
Odier oornamer goods                68        70       35        49        74       75      84       94      103     112
Petroleum products                  84       97        86        83       87        97      110     125      144     167
Tnternmdiae goods                   89       103       95        73       85        88      101     116      128     143
Capital goods                       96       113      132       114       113      114      133     156      185     218
(cmitam 1982 prices)
Total Imports, c.i.f.                336       428      380       396       438      460      490     526      550     576
Foodstuffs                          58       61        32        56       62        69      74       78       75      70
Other consumer goods                68        68       35        51       74        77      80       84       85      86
Petroleum products                  83       95        86        95       101      107      114     122      131     142
Tltermedlate goods                  88      100        95        75       86        90      96      103      106     110
erapital  goods                     95       110      132       119      115       117      127     139      153     168
MPKESrrICN OF EXPWS                 1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
(current prices)
Total exports, f.o.b.                496       493      464       498       532      559      538     567      648     683
Randte                             351       314      327       369      385       390      345     342     382      382
Aluidna                            147       135      114       122      128       131      141     153      165     179
Diamxnds and Gold                    I        -         7         3        12       29      37       47       59      72
roffee                               8         2        1         1         1        2        6      12       25      28
Other                               12         5        4         5        6         7       10      13       17      22
(cowstant 1982 prices)
Total exports, f.o.b.                401       500      453       480       516      538      553     571      596     612
Bauxdte                            271      343       327       353      377       384     384      384     384      384
Alumina                            113       148      114       118      122       124      128     131      135     139
Diamonds and Cold                    I        -         7         4        11       21      28       35      44       53
Coffee                               6                  1 I                 1        2        5      11       21      22
Other                               10         7        4         5        6         7       8       10       12      14
PRICE INDEXES                       1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985    1986    19R7    1988    1989
Fxport price index                  95.5    108.1    100.0    103.8    103.1    103.9    97.4    98.6   108.2   110.7
lnport price index                 117.5    104.0    10n.0      96.0      96.7      97.5   104.2   111.6   119.7   12R.5
Terim of trade index                81.3    104n.   100.0    108.1    106.6    106.5    93.5    88.3    90.4    86.1



hnnex h
-61-                                      VaTue j f 3
(UIFA - BALANCE OF PAV4WM 1/
MuLlions of USS)
rwjecL1sw
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985 2/ 1986   1987  1988  1989
Exports of goods                       496    493    444    503    532    559    538    567   648   683
Tnqofrts ofgods                        395    445    380    380    438    448    511    587   658   740
TraOe Ealane                         101     48      64    123      94    111      27    -20   -10   -57
Services aril private trafers (net)    -1=    -rt    -W    -I67   -1T1   --M    -rg    -IW   -18I  -
of we ich: e 4hw1Co6     rites      (-8      -             (-96)     (-10)       -12 (-              ( 20
interest due on HLT debt   (-51)  (-52)  (-54    44)    -52)    531   -46   (-41   -34   -28
Current acwunt excl. off. transfers    -26   -110    -89    -42    -72    -80   -168   -206  -191  -230
Official transfers                      17      16     26     18      19     23      28     34    40    46
Current account balance                 -q    -94    -63    -24    -58    -58   -139   -172  -151  -184
Foreign investmenet                     2z     YU      z8    -1s T    -x    -M 0      -7  -zS    35      w
Net H1T borcw1ng                        -2     21      -3     53    -30    -33    -48    -19    -1    45
Dishursamits                         150    142    108    149       97    109    118    148   165   177
AMrtization (scdulaed)              -152   -121   -111    -96   -127   -142   -167   -167  -166  -132
Short-tenn capital, ret                  I     11      31     -3    -12    -12    -10       -6     -      -
SDR allocation                           4      4       -      -       -      -       -      -     -      -
Errors Und Omdssions                   -74    -80    -49   -146    -12        6       -      -      -     -
Overall Balance                        -58   -108    -56    -89    -78    -57   -169   -165  -107   -90
Use of IMFCredit                       -      -      12      -       -      -      -6     -6      -     -
increase in arrears                   25     37      33     28      15     46      -       -     -      -
Change in Reserves (-=increase)       33      71     11     61      63      11   -11    -12   -10   -11
Net reserve level                     -240    -76 3/ -87   -142   -205   -216   -205   -188  -178  -167
SAC and SAC-Related Financing                                                13    123      11
bpi, brA                                                                     -       39w     T
SJF (Germany, Japan)                                                                 35      2
3Fl Stand-by                                                                         30      6
Bilateral Aid (Switzerlaxd, France)                                          13      18      -
GJuDEA - oFFICIAL GRANTS AND MEDImUM & lQa-RMm EXTEYAL DEBr i/
(Millions of USS)
ProjectlUo
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988  1989
Gross Disbursements                  169.4  158.4  135.5  166.6  116.2  127.6  146.2  182.0 204.7 223.4
ur)ittft  grants                  17.0   16.0   26.0   18.0   19.0   23.0   28.0   34.0  40.0  46.0
Public aid _ _ _l____ _ x_t__d       118.8  130.4   87.9   92.3   79.2  104.6  118.2  148.0 164.7  177.4
'onCtiCnaj. Wans                  61.7   96.5   63.2   48.0   52.5   78.4  101.3  137.2  158.1  174.5
DAC                             11.6   20.0    8.0   21.n   12.A   28.7   17.6   19.6  31.1  41.5
(PB                              2.8   25.2   27.5       -    6.5   14.3   25.5   37.6  36.7  37.1
TlA                              9.8   13.5   11.4   16.0   19.9   19.3   31.2   38.9  38.9  38.2
*           Otder                            37.5   37.8   16.3   11.0   13.2   16.2   27.0   41.1  51.5  57.7
NI _-Coressional loans          57.1   34.8   24.7   44.4   26.7   26.2   16.9    9.1   6.6   2.9
s            ulers Credlts                   31.0   20.2   13.9   21.7    9.7    8.6    3.0    2.2  11.1
URl)                               -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -      -   3.5
i           (rOther                          26.1   14.6   11.2   22.8   17.1   17.6   13.9    6.9   5.5   2.9
Private r       d-garanteed           33.6   12.0   21.6   56.3   18.n    4.n         -      -     -      -
Total SerIce Pasvents(Actual/Scheduled)178.1   136.1  130.8  114.2  164.4  194.7  212.1  206.7  201.4  161.8
lublic anacPLy Guaranteed         94.6   82.1   77.8   67.5  105.1  133.5  158.1  150.9  150.2  138.8
mrlnclpal                       71.6   60.3   53.3   46.1   84.3  105.6  131.1  125.7 122.9  111.5
C essional                    39.6   42.0   34.4   27.4   59.7   61.5   88.7   90.3  89.7  81.3
Non-concessimal               32.0   18.3   18.9   18.7   24.7   44.1   42.4   33.4  33.2  30.2
Interest                        23.0   21.8   24.5   21.4   20.8   27.9   27.0   27.2  27.3  27.3
CwGncessional                 11.6   11.6   11.8   10.3    9.8   11.6   12.5   13.5  14.4  15.1
Non-concessial                 11.4   10.2   12.7   11.1   11.0.  16.3   14.5   13.7  12.9  12.2
Privalbe nm-gzaranteed            83.5   54.0   53.0   46.7   59.3   61.2   54.0   55.8  51.2  23.0
59.1   28.5   29.8   28.4   33.2   36.0   35.5   42.1  42.8  20.1
Interest                        24.4   25.5   23.2   18.3   26.1   25.2   18.5   13.7   8.4   2.9
Dcernl Debt
ueDc MxEsMIng & disbursed, public  1028.6  1258.2  1231.1  1215.5  1063.9  1065.5  999.9  906.0 804.5  707.1
Debt outstanding & disbursed, private  190.0  173.6  165.9  19&.3  179.1  147.1  111.6   69.5  26.7   6.6
Public Debt Service as Z of Exwrts    19.1   16.7   17.5   13.4   19.8   23.9   29.4   26.6  23.2  20.3
1I Encbsdlng SAC, SFA ard! IMF Starnd-y resources.
7/ Prelimdnaryo
3/ $213 millkm  cosstn  of a debit balance une bilateral repynut arargnet, was convete in 1981.42
into an MLT loan.



S EI'- EG GA,L IA
~~~--          '     -      i     -      \                    Xo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ug04  
G U I N E A-                 _n                                                    t;
BI S S A U                       t;v,0
-;  ,.   .-.-.- .XouK ic
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
* ~ ~ ~~~~.                  /              B k&                         T    \I4 mT
17. | 'Mrld /~3 e{- i 2 * |9di
wid lie IMEiU   Fuwc  \~~~~~~Til d-i
//+~~~N xBAU XITE                     ti(RA, D D L E 5tG U IN EA
aVwvubon~~~ F~imim CapuaTondo
e Kn fvoiyor<> Ely 
~~n bmmlU     IA.~ ~ ~~~~Ki  i
A NAAUX ITE 
nadws     rSNG               ona MrLy           , I_
an #W mw dD d aft. an                          I
BISS of AU< O   aeS'
.xszdC n  rir .r          '                              *1        -. -  Ralwy
LEONE ce\                            /                  Aiuliekft
rxruneen Gan. ftm Am"
of NW   *WY or                      IOR   CAST j                          iiev
w_e or accoo    of                                                      P
sLoM bound~ ~ ~       ~        ~       --.     ntratonlBonare
Y-~ E            MAURITANIA            t                           
SENEGAL                            MAtlI
THE GAMBIA r>       ~       >
.   f  7-_._.4  ,,         )                   - > ': ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mining Projects
~~ |          KB~r-URKINA                 Paved Rords
GU NEA U  o-  n avd Rosds
conaro4                    t                                      Railways
S IE RRA  .lzl                                          Itwnational Airport
LEONE   r                              I                Airfeelds
>  t /W¢ I vO RY COAST   j                    Rivers
JLIBERIA  i469   National Capital
h         r  o             o~~1  Primary and SecondarY C-~
,



IBRD 19469
)'~~~~~~~~0                                                           a.,
Bamako
Nyoagssola                         1
i nguiroye UP PER         I.
; ~~~~ ¢5 Mond~~~~~~~ianlo_ J g
Bissikn'mo
Yikir ~ ~ ~      ~
-i           VI?  Nzer6kore                       IPOSEnkon
aF     0ranol 0                                                             j 19  ,   o-
-- l ) <o~~~~~~~~~~~~~riboroy%  I VOR Y
-   ILO E TEASCOAST
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K X   srouani                         74
t  Kessideq(;>          ~~~~~Konson Kok    
r E*ouL    r                  EGtN|
{/7    /     ~~~~__{Moento   5      
(             7 ,        R     +   ~~~~~~~~IRON ORE;
.             \ g         \   f   / {P~~~~~~~~~IPROPOSE D} 
!                  , ~~~~~~~~Nz er >
L I B E R I A                           i-rX \ 
JANUARY 1986






