Dcunmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Reot No. 8826
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA AOl1)
JUNE 25, 1990
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTTS
(Annual Average. Guinean Francs per US Dollar)
1986: GP 345; 1987: GF 428; 1988: GF 475
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBG      Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (bauxite company)
CCEF     Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee
ENCOBE   Entreprise de commercialisation du betail
EPCOA    Prefectoral Agency for Agricultural Produce Marketing
FAPA     Ferme Agro-Pastorale d'Arrondissement (District Collective Farm)
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPCI     Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MRAEP    Ministry of Administrztive Reform and Civil Service
ONAH     Hationwl Hydrocarbons Company (petroleum products import and distribution)
PROSECO State enterprise responsible for Product Exports (coffee and palm ke.rnels)
SGC      Soc.iete Guineenne de Commerce (Joint ventura trading company)



FOR OFFMCLAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Office tel OvfftEv.GWaI
Op0srat tvattutm
June 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Performance Audit Report on Guinea -
First Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credits 1659-GUI and SPA AOIl)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Program
Performance Audit Report on Guinea - First Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credits 1659-GUI and SFA A0ll)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This documient has a mttited distrbutiont and may be used by moipients only in the pM. .aef
of their officil dutLe Its conenttat my wat otherwise be diwoe without Wol Bsnk auwzin



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE iUDIT REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA AO11)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page NQ.
Preface  .         ...........................................................                                 i
Basic  Data  Sheet  ...................................................                                       ii
Evaluation  Summary  .................................................                                      iii
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.       BACKGROUND  ...................................................                                       1
II.      CONCEPT AND  DESIGN OF  SAL  I  ..................................                                    2
III.    IMPLEMENTATION  ...............................................                                        4
A.   Monetary  and Banking Reform  ..............................                                     4
B.   The  Incentive  System  .....................................                                    5
C.   The  Public  Sector  ........................................                                    6
IV.  IMPACT AND INITIAL RESULTS .....................                                                          8
V.   FINDINGS AND ISSUES    ..................................                                                 9
PROGM COMPLETION REPORT
I.       INTRODUCTION             ........................            .........................              13
II.      SETTING         ...........................              ...........................                13
III.   THE  ECONOMIC AND  FINANCIAL REFORM  PROGRAM  ....................                                    15
IV.      PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION  ........ ...........                         ....................          16
V.       GOVERNMENT  MONITORING  OF THE  PROGRAM  ..........                     ..       .............      29
VI.      BANK  SUPERVISION  ......... .............                       .......................            30
VII.    DISBURSEMENT AND  PROCUREMENT  ..............                      ..       .................        31
VIII.  THE  IMPACT  OF  SAL  I  ..........................................                                   31
IX.      LESSONS  LEARNED             .......................             .......................            33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SPA A011)
PREFACE
1.       This is a Program  Performance  Audit  Report  (PPAR) on the First
Structural Adjustment Program, involving an IDA credit in the amount of SDR
22.9 million and an SFA credit in the amount of SDR 15.6 million to the
Government of Guinea, with the objective of supporting Guinea's Economic
and Financial Reform Program designed to free the economy from pervasive
state controls, lessen public sector intervention and to put in place a
policy framework favoring a market-oriented economic system. The credits
were approved on February 11, 1986, and became effective on May 19, 1986.
Closing date of the credits was December 31, 1988; and final disbursements
were made on February  23,  1989.    A Second Structural Adjustment Credit,
No.1926-GUI in ttv amount of SDR 47 million, was approved on June 16, 1988
and became effective on March 2, 1989.
2.       The PPAR  consists  of  the  Program  Performance Audit Memorandum
(PPAM) prepared by the Operaticns Evaluation Department (OED) and the
Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Africa Region. The PPAM is
based on the attached PCR, the President's Report, the loan documents, the
transcripts of the meeting of the Executive Directors at which the program
was considered, on a study of program files, and on discussions with Bank
staff.   An  OED  mission  visited  Guinea  in  Octoberl/ovember  1989, and
discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the Ministry of
Finance, the Planning Office and the Central Bank. Their kind cooperation
and valuable assistance in the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.
d3.      The PCR p' vides a complete  account and assessment of the project
experience, and discusses the performances of the Bank and the program
executing agencies. The PPAM elaborates on particular aspects such as the
concept and design of SAL I, the incentive system, and the impact and
initial results; and sets out the major findings of the audit.
4.       Following standard OED procedures,  copies  of the draft PPAR were
sent to the Government. However, no comments were received.



ii
PROGRAM PERFORM4ANC3 AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA AOl1-GUI)
BASIC D        SHEET
KEY PROECT DATA
Original Amount   Disbursed   OutstanaOng
(as at 31 March 1989)
IDA Credit No 1659-GUI*               25 (SOR 22.9)        29.09        0
SFA  A011*                            17 (SOR 15.6)         19.62        0
*Denominated In SORe
Source: Statement of Development Credits
CUKULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY 86    FY 87    FY 88    FY 89
(I)    Planned
CUSS million)             34.20    42.00     0.00     0.00
(I1)   Actual Total             12.72    22.75    39.12    48.71
o/w A 011              4.97    10.84    17.10    19.62
1659-GUI              7.75    11.91    22.02    29.09
Ciii) as percent of (I)*           37       54       93      116
* Disbursed USS amounts exceed original USS
amount due to SOR/USS parity changes.
Appraisal                    Mar. 10, 1985
Documents to                 Nov. tt, 1985
Loan Committee
Negotiatio'us                Dec. 12, 1985
Board Approval               Feb. 11, 1986
Signature of DCA             Feb. 27, 1986
Effectiveness                may  19, 1986
Credit closing               Dec. 31, 1988
FOLLOW-UP ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
Guinea: Second Structural Adjustment Program, Credit No 1926-GUI approved
on June 16, 1988 in the amount of SDR 47 million (US$65 million equi-
valent). The Credit was signed on June 29, 1988 arnd became effective on
March 2, 1989.



iii
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA AOlI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Background
1.          After more than two decades of economic mismanagement the economy
of Guinea was in a state of complete disarray by the early 1980s. The centrally
planned state-led development model had failed to produce growth and moderniza-
tior. Instead, despite its favorable resource endowment, Guinea remained one
of tht poorest countries in Africa with comparatively unfavorable social in-
dicators.
2.          A 1982 stand-by agreement with the IMF soor became inoperative as
there was no clear government commitment with regard to systemic reforms and the
required radical adjustment of the exchange rate.   Under a new government,
assuming power after the death of Sekou Toure in 1984, the prospects for basic
changes in Guinea''s economic policies improved. The government demonstrated
its commitment to policy reform by abolishing all internal barriers to the
movement of goods and by stopping compulsory sales by farmers to the government,
thereby giving the private sector access to all activities previously under the
monopoly of the state.
The SAL I - Concegt and Desi
3.          There were long negotiations on an adjustment program with the Fund
and the Bank during all of 1985.  It was clear to both sides that systemic
reforms had to take place in the Guinean economy toward a market-oriented system
which would, in combination with the large needs for rehabilitation in all
sectors, require several years to be implemented.   IDA's First Structural
Adjustment Credit approved by the Board in February 1986 was to be the first of
a series of operations in support of Guinea's Economic and Financial Reform
Program started by the regime which came to power in April 1984.
4.          Due to the deep financial disarray of the country the adjustment
process had to be initiated with a monetary and banking reform, devaluing the
Guinean currency by a factor of twelve and replacing the inefficient state bantks
with a new banking system based on private joint-venture banks.   The large
external deficit of the country required a joint effort of the international
donor community adding up to almost US$150 million including special joint
financing and cofinancing from bilateral donors. While the Fund's and the Bank's
contributions covered only a fraction of the financial gap, their support of
Guinea's adjustment program was instrumental in mobilizing additional external
assistance.
5.          The adjustment program was designed to be carried out in three
phases.   Phase I, from end-1985 to mid-1986, consisted of a range of major



iv
monetary, pricing and fiscal adjustments, complemented by multilateral debt
rescheduling in the framework of the Paris Club. Phase 1I (during 1986) was to
consolidate the reorientation of the economy to the new exchange rate and pricing
system by a progressive liberalization of the productive sectors, the establish-
ment of the new banking system and by improving public sector performance. In
Phase III, from 1987 onwards, the private sector was to play the major role in
employment generation following public sector rationalization. The essential
actions in these phases were directly linked to specific conditions for the
release of the second tranche of the SAL, which was delayed by a year-and-a-
half pending the satisfaction of these conditions but ensured a constructive
dialogue and positive action in most areas.
Implementation
6.          The monetary and banking reforms were carried out swiftly by the
Guinean authorities. A foreign exchange auction system wa' introduced after
the initial large devaluation and four new private banks were established. The
pursuit of an active exchange rate policy was hampered however by the continuing
internal financial disarray, particularly with regard to the public budget.
7.          The reforms of the incentive system for the private sector proceeded
relatively well with regard to price adjustments (rice, petroleum, coffee, palm
kernels) and the simplification of the tariff regime. However, an increase in
the petroleum tax as well as the tariff reforms did not result in a substantial
increase of budgetary revenucs due to 'leakages' from parastatals and an
inefficient customs service. The establishment of a coherent institutional and
legal framework for a market-oriented economy proceeded on a piecemeal basis only
and was not completed under SAL I.
8.          The public sector reforms, namelv the reduction of the civil service
by 10,000 employees and the privatization and liquidation of public enterprises,
were initiated quickly but soon encountered difficulties due to insufficient
planning and monitoring as well as a certain loss of credibility in the view of
the public because of exonerations and irregularities.   The civil service
reduction was fully implemented but the creation of alternative employment
opportunities in the private sector was very limited. The economic benefits of
the privatization of public enterprises have been qualified by the granting of
monopoly rights, high protection and generous fiscal holidays to some privatized
enterprises. However, quantitative targets for privatization have been met,
though with some delay.
Impact and Results
9.          The Guinean economy has reacted favorably to the adjustment measures
with GDP growth rates of 3.1X in 1987 and 5.9X in 1988. The inflation rate
declined but fiscal and balance of payments deficits remained high, due to
slippages in financial discipline and a persisting weakness in the management
capacities of the economic ministries. Despite the comprehensive deregulation
and liberalization policies there has been no significant increase in private
investment, rneither local nor foreign, except in the agriculture, trade sectors
and housing where a positive supply response could be felt. It was clearly too



v
optimistic to expect significant employment creation in the private sector
already under SAL 1.
Evaluation - Findings and Issues
10.         As the first phase in a sequence of policy-based lending operations
the contents and conditionality of SAL I appear appropriate in view of the severe
distortions of the Guinean economy. Quick results in all aspects could not be
expected, given the weak human resources and the physical deterioration of the
country. The gradual improvements since the start of the adjustment program
can be regarded as a success; but the remaining requirements for reform are
enormous, and in view of the weak financial position of the country and the
expected deterioration in its terms of trade medium-term growth prospects are
only modest.
11.         There were some weaknesses in the design and implementation of the
program. Among the more important the following issues have been identified:
- -    The adjustment program wab designed by Bank and Fund staff and was
not fully internalized by the Guinean authorities. This deficiency
was only partly compensated by continuous dialogue between the
resident missions and the government on the details of the
implementation of the program.
- -    The companion TA operation for economic management was not sufficient
to substitute for the fundamental management deficiencies in the
Guinean admiristration.
- -    SAL I focussed mainly on the establishment of a rational public
investment program but neglected revenue generation and budgetary
management in general.
-- The Bank's approach was flexible with regard to the conditionality
and the timetable for program implementation, but somewhat
superficial in the design and monitoring of comprehensive reform
programs such as the restructuring of the public service and the
public enterprise reform.
Lessgns
12.         This PPAM essentially agrees with the statement of lessons learned
contained in the program completion report.   While some reforms hinge on
executive and or legislative decision and can be implementcd quickly, the
economic response and effects depend on changes in the behavior of people and
are much slower in becoming manifest. Still other reforms involve institutional
changes which can be put in place only slowly and which are dependent on the
availability of skilled people to design, implement and manage these changes.
In both cases realistic expectations require that an adequate time span is
allowed for the desired effects to appear.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA-AO11)
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Despite its great agricultural, mining and hydroelectric potential
Guinea still belongs to the least developed countries with a GNP per capita of
about US$300. In the quarter century after its independence the Guinean economy
had changed drastically: from a net food exporter, based on a vital agricultural
sector, the country became the world's largest bauxite exporter, a major alumina
producer and exporter, and a net food importer. Except for a short period in the
mid-1970s, when bauxite operations expanded, economic growth r6-ained below the
population growth rate of approximately 3 percent per annum. The low level of
development is reflected in comparatively unfavorable social indicators: life
expectancy at birth, literacy rate and health standards are considerably lower
than in the average low income Africa South of tne Salhara.
1.02      Starting from very difficult conditions at indeper-'ence Guinea chose
a model of centrally planned state-led development whici. -ight have been
appropriate at the outset but produced increasingly unfavorable t'sults as time
passed. A network of state enterprises in all economic sectors replaced foreign
ventures and private enterprises, but did not achieve the expected modernization
and industrialization objectives. Due to the lack of producer incentives and poor
performance of public support services, agricultural exports declined and most
of the agricultural sector retreated into subsistence farming. Urbanization
increased rapidly and the economy grew severely dualistic as between the official
and non-official sectors. The former depended mainly on the bauxite enclave
economy and functioned through an unsustainable system of administered prices
and a highly overvalued currency, while the expanding parallel markets
increasingly overtook the function of satisfying urban and rural consumer demand.
1.03      By the early 1980s the Guinean economy was in a state of complete
disarray. The external deficit gree, and public investments outside the mining
enclave failed to generate returns adequate to service external debt. The
government's internal fiaancial position eroded due to increasing transfers to
the parastatals and to declining tax receipts as the non-official sector grew
to dominate consumer trade. The Guinean currency, the syli, traded on the
parallel market at more than twenty times the official rate by 1985. The
situation was aggravated by the declining performance of the inefficient and
overstaffed public sector, in which remuneration consisted largely of official
rations, notably rice.  It was also aggravated by the severely deteriorated
infrastructure, such. as the road network, energy supply, telecommunication links
and the physical deterioration of the capital city of Conakry.
1.04     The pressure of the economic situation led to some tentative economic
reforms in the early 1980s. In 1982 Guinea entered a one-year stabilization
program with the IMF, which included policy elements aiming at longer-term
recovery. There was, however, no clear government commitment to the necessary



2
refor-ms of the regulatory framework of the economy and to the required radical
adjustment of the exchange rate. Thus the stand-by soon became inoperative.
1.05     Only after the death of President Sekou Toure in March, 1984, and the
subsequent assumption of power by a group of military officers did the prospects
for basic changes in Guinea's political, and economic policies improve. The new
government expressed its determination to set the economy on a new path towards
realizing its full development potential and appealed to the international
community for support.
1.06     During 1984 and 1985 the Bank and the Fund held discussions with the
government of Guinea on the economic reform program. Najnr stumbling stones in
the nvgotiations on an IMF stand-by and a Structural Adjustment Credit from the
Bank were the weak capacity for policy formulation on the Guinean side leading
to a slow pace in decision making, and the hesitation of the government with
regard to a radical devaluwtion of the Guinean syli. However, the government
demonstrated its commitment to policy reform by initial reform measures in 1984
and 1985 directed toward eliminating all internal barriers to the movement of
goods. It also abolished compulsory sales by farmers to the state. By enacting
a ne- investment Code, a Banking Law and a Commercial Law, and by abolishing the
state monopoly for foreign trade, the government gave to the private sector
access to all activities previously under the monopoly of state-owned enter-
prises, leading virtually to the legalization of the non-official sector of the
economy.
1.07    When in the last quarter of 1985 the details of a structural adjustment
program were discussed by the Bank and the Government of Guinea it was clear to
both sides that the rehabilitation of the Guinean economy would be a long-term
endeavour, that the centrally planned state-led development strategy had to be
further changed in favor of a market-oriented economic system with a greater role
for the private sector. It was also clear that the first phase of the reform
program had to consist of a set of short-term fiscal and monetary measures to
stabilize the economy and set the stage for subsequent structural reforms with
a medium-term perspective.
1.08     The urgent financial needs of Guinea, reflected in an accumuletion of
payments arrears amounting to over US$300 million at end-1985, required the joint
effort of the international donor community as the financial contributions of
the Bank (US$25 million IDA Credit sa'd US$17 million African Facility Credit)
and the Fund (US$36.3 million) were riot sufficient to cover the financial gap.
The total financing package committed in 1986, including Special Joint Financing
from Germany and Japan, and cofinancing from Switzerland, France and the United
States, added up to almost US$150 million. The Bank's and Fund's support for
Guinea's economic recovery program was instrumental in mobilizing this
assistaitce. Furthermore, a Paris Club meeting for the rescheduling of official
debts was scheduled for March 1986 and a Consultative Group conference for one
year later.
II. CONCEPT AND DESIGN OF SAL I
2.01       In its Statement of Development Policy the Government of Guinea
formulated four main development priorities. First, the exchange rate issue had



3
to be resolv&.1 as a prerequisite for the removal of price distortions and the
unification of the official and parallel economies. Second, the capacity and
performance of the public secto., particularly in supplying basic infrastructure
and social services, had to be greatly improved. Third, the environment for
private sector development had to be established. Fourth, export earnings had
to be boosted by diversification out of bauxite, and rice imports had to be cut
by augmenting domestic production.
2.02     The program was to be carried out in three phases.
Phase I, from end-1985 to mid-1986, consisted of a range
of major monetary, pricing and fiscal adjustments, such
as the devaluation followed by a floating exchange rate;
an increase '.n the prices of rice and petroleum products
to reflect prices on the international market at the new
exchange rate; a corprehensive debt rescheduling and
strict control of credit and the money supply; measures
to increase tax collection and to control public
expenditure through reduced transfers to public enter-
prises and reduced 1ublic sector employment; a core
public investment program to rehabilitate and complete
ongoing projects with assured viability and economic
returns; a new investment code and other fiscal and
administrative measures to encourage private investment;
reform of tariffs and import/export procedures; and the
opening of new, privately-managed commercial banks to
replace the former Government banks, which were to be
liquidated.
Phase II (during 1986) was to consolidate the reorienta-
tion of the economy to the new exchange rate and pricing
system by maintaining price flexibility and progressive
liberalization of the productive sectors, largely
through rapid withdrawal of government involvement and
intervention; establishment of institutions to support
this process - particularly a viable and efficient
banking system; and improving public sector economic
performance.
In Phase III, from 1987 onwards, the private sector
would play the major role in employment creation
following public sector rationalization, the firm
reestablishment of financial sector institutions, and
the expansion of smallholders agriculture and consumer
demand. New or rehabilitated physical and social
infrastructure should support this growth.
2.03        Due to the major distortions in the regulatory framework of the
Guinean economy the program was focussed mainly on monetary and fiscal stabili-
zation, based on the advice of the Fund, and on deregulation and liberalization
of the economy. Other program elements dealt with the legal and institutional
set-up of the emerging market-oriented economy. Most of these program elements



4
were to be carried out during 1986, while the major supply responses, based on
private sector initiative, were expected to materialize during Phase III, which
waa left conceptually relatively open, apparently to be filled with more policy
actions under a subsequent structural adjustment credit. Taking into account the
weak administrative capacities of the Guinean Government, it was a very
ambitious and tight schedule for reform. It seems that the Bank didn't want to
t iss the opportunity of a highly committed government, ready to accept the
advice of the Fund and the Bank, and pushed ahead for major deregulatory
reforms, leaving some of the complex problems of the transformation of the
productive system and the establishment of new viable structures in the
productive sectors to the future.
2.04       The short time frame of SAL I was reflected in the intention to
disburse the second tranche of the credit (US$17 million) already in the second
half of 1986, following a performance review. Specific conditions for the
release of the second tranche referred to the establishment of a new legal
framework (investment code, commercial law, petroleum code); the start of the
liquidation program for the state-controlled primary banks; the reduction in the
number of public employees by 10,000 persons; a review of rice stocking and
distribution arrangements; and adjustment of the prices of rice, coffee, palm
kernels and petroleum. Additionally, the government agreed to pay regularly its
charges for water and electricity; establish an action plan for the restructur-
ing of the non-industrial parapublic sector and to consult with the Bank before
formation of or taking participation in new state enterprises and before making
any changes in the contractual or fiscal arrangements pertaining to the
exploitation of bauxite.
2.05     The implementation of the reforms was to be supported by a Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 1559-GUI) and by advisors and consultants financed by
France, the IDF and UNDP. The support of the advisors was geared mainly to the
banking and public enterprise reform programs, the implementation of the public
service reform and reduction effort, and to the ministerial coordination body
CCEF (Economic and Financial Coordination Committee).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Monetary and Banking Reform
3.01      In a major reform in 1986 the Guinean franc replaced the syli as
Guinea's currency. The currency was devalued by a factor of twelve for public
transactions and by a higher rate for private sector activities, to be unified
by mid-year and continuously adjusted afterwards. A weekly foreign exchange
auction system was introduced, principally open to all current transactions of
the private and parastatal sectors. However, the auction system - which was in
fact more a fixirng by the Central Bank after receiving bids from the large
foreign exchange buyers - did not capture all foreign exchange earnings from the
parallel market and therefore a considerable spread remained for some time in
favor of the parallel market. During 1986 and 1987 the exchange rate policy did
not fully comply with the lIF's policy prescription and only from late 1988
onwards did the authorities pursue a more active exchange rate policy, which



5
was, however, hampered by the continuing internal financial disarray, part-
icularly with regard to the public budget.
3.02    At end-1985 all six state banks were closed and replaced with three new
majority private joint-venture banks. A fourth joint-venture bank followed in
1988. The liquidation of the state banks - being a conditi   .or the second
tranche release - proceeded with some irregularities and a cons.derable increase
in liquidity due to the reimbursement of depositors, but was completed, though
with considerable delay, by es -1,18.
3.03    Although the moneta'  - .4 banking reforms, having been carried out with
courage and determination by ta.- authorities, .§present a great leap forward
compared with the pre-reform sy:tem, some major deficiencies remained after SAL
I to be straightened out in the medium-term. Confidence in the new banks has
been rising, but their intermediary role is still weak due to negative real
interest rates for deposits and the absence of a legal framework for banking
sureties and to the reluctance of banks to undertake medium and long-term
lending. Apart from continuous institutional improvements in the banking system,
efforts towards greater macroeconomic stability (inflation stood still at 25
percent in 1989) and financial soundness (budget deficit) will be required for
longer term economic development.
B. The Incentive System
3.04      After the legalization of a large part of the parallel market for
consumer goods and after the abolition of most state trading monopolies and
price controls in 1984 and 1985, price and marketing policy issues under SAL I
focussed on the politically sensitive import commodities-rice and petroleum- as
well as the major agricultural export products-coffee and palm kernels. In the
case of rice the government abolished the system of ration cards but was
reluctant to free the commercial rice trade completely. There prevailed
considerable government involvement in trade licencing and price regulation.
While the Bank tried to avoid the disincentive effects of subsidized prices and
oversupply of imported (and food aid) rice on local production, the government
feared the political repercussions of supply bottlenecks and rising prices of
a staple commodity in times of stagnating private incomes. As the government in
fact raised the price of rice only from 20 Guinean sylis/kg to 100 Guinean
francs/kg after the devaluation by a factor of twelve, the Bank flagged a non-
compliance with the condition to review rice stocking and distribution arrange-
ments.' Following devaluation  etrolem prices were increased more than two-
fold to reflect international prices at the prevailing exchange rate. A
simultaneous increase in the petroleum tax did, however, not lead to the
expected revenue increase, due to severe 'leakages' from ONAM, the state
petroleum import and distribution company. For both commodities, rice and
petroleum, price differentials to neighboring countries provide an incentive for
considerable re-exports, which are difficult to control due to the weakness of
the customs administration. For coffee and Ralm kernels prices were also
adjusted upwards. The state monopoly for the marketing of agricultural exports
Further liberalization measures were considered under the subsequent
SAL II.



6
was abolished in 1986, leading to a better remuneration for producers and a
favorable supply response among coffee growers.
3.05    The revamping of the tariff regime following the devaluation of January
1986 resulted in a highly simplified regime of border taxes. With a few
exemptions, imports became subject to a base rate of 10 percent, with a flat
turnover tax of 10 percent, and surcharges of 20-40 percent for luxury goods.
Considering the virtually oper. borders of the country, higher import tariffs
could serve neither protective nor fiscal purposes. Even at the low tariff rates
prevailing after the reform the inefficient customs service has not been in a
position to recover more than a fraction of the expected revenues.
3.06       Work on the establishment of a coherent institutional and legal
framework for a market-oriented economy had already started before SAL I with
the enactment of a new investment code, a commercial law and a banking law.
However, the Bank supported a revision of the investment code and the commercial
law in order to establish consistency between the different codes and laws and
to remove disincentives for private investment. The revised codes were adopted
but private investors still regard the Guinean legal system, with its absence
of clear procedures for legal recourse and unclear property ownership rights as
highly unreliable. Thus, the response from private, particularly foreign
investors has been disappointing.
C. The Public Sector
3.07     The public sector reforms had two main objectives: reduction of the
size and cost of public administration, and withdrawal of the state from the
productive sectors of the economy. The first objective was to be attained mainly
by the reduction and rationalization of public sector employment; the second by
restructuring, and partly liquidating and privatizing the public enterprise
sector. Additionally, the public investment budget was to be reoriented towards
the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and budget control
was to be strengthened by overhauling the government's procurement regulations
and other measures.
3.08     As a condition for second tranche release it was agreed to reduce the
number of public employees - estimated at 90,000 persons - by 10,000. Simul-
taneously, public salaries - insufficient to assure even a minimal standard of
living without outside employment - were to be increased considerably. The
quantitative target of staff reduction was attained, albeit with some delay, by
enforcing the retirement age, offering a voluntary departure scheme and creating
an "administrative reserve" with continuing salaries for employees of public
enterprises to be closed. Additionally, a staff testing and evaluation process
was initiated for virtually the entire administration with the aim of matching
job requirements with staff qualifications and of identifying redundant staff.
The testing program turned out to be a long, costly and complex procedure,
whereby some discrete exonerations questioned the credibility of the whole
process. However, by end-1989 the testing program was terminated and a civil
service census finally established. Apparently, the timetable for the admin-
istrative reform had been far too optimistic and the planning of the reform had
been devised more in an ad-hoc manner than on the basis of a well-defined
concept. The absorption of redundant c'.vil servants into the private sector was



.7
more dIfficult than expected. An employment advisory service, providing donor-
funded loans and technical assistance for the preparation of bankable projects,
had only limited success and suffers apparently from repayment problems. At end-
1989 about 15,000 persons still remain in the "administrative reserve",
receiving a basic salary, due to the very limited scope for alternative
employment opportunities in the private sector.
3.09    The reform of the public enterprise sector took a quick start in 1986,
when a number of industrial and commercial parastatals were privatized or
prepared for liquidation. As there existed neither an appropriate legal
framework for both privatizations and liquidations nor a plan setting out
schedules, rules and procedures for the divestiture process, it was carried out
in an ad-hoc manner leading to some irregularities as well as a certain loss of
credibility with the public. Consequently, implementation slowed down when the
government encountered difficulties which were not foreseen at the outset. The
privatization process  suffered from discrete political  interventions  and
somewhat arbitrary decisions by the government, even after negotiations with
private investors had been successfully terminated. Some decisions were clearly
based on vested interests, e.g. when monopoly rights, high protection and
generous fiscal holidays were granted to some privatized companies or when
public assets were sold at very low prices. The liguidation of public enter-
prises proceeded slower than anticipated, mainly due to the reluctance of the
government to close down some inefficient companies. A particular weakness was
the absence of a plan to meet the financial requirements of the divestiture
program, i.e. for the settling of debt arrears, severance pay for employees etc.
Despite the support of the government by Bank staff and consultants, the
divestiture process was marked by a considerable degree of indecision, confusion
and improvisation. However, by end-1988 about 20 public enterprises, mainly
industrial, had been privatized; 69 had been closed and were in an advanced
stage of liquidation. Only a few of the more than hundred public enterprises in
existence in 1986 are to remain in the public portfolio. As there is no central
monitoring unit for public enterprises as yet, it is difficult to assess their
financial status and the progress of their rehabilitation. In general, the
quantitative targets of the divestiture program have been met, but the quality
of the outcome leaves much to be desired. In retrospect, it is difficult to
judge if a more careful planning effort supported by the Bank would have
produced better results. As vested interests have in fact been stronger than the
general commitment for reform, the impact of external influence has been limited
anyhow. It can be questioned however, if it was wise to set quantitative targets
for divestiture, when there was no appropriate degree of control of its
implementation.
3.10    The first Public Investment Program (PIP) for 1986 as well as a three-
year rolling investment program prepared for the period 1987-89 and presented
to the Consultative Group for Guinea in March 1987 had been reviewed and
endorsed by the Bank. Both programs reflected the reorientation towards
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and the enlarged role
of the private sector. With the support of the companion Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Management the investment planning procedures, organization
and structure of the Ministry of Planning, Commerce and Industry were revamped.
It proved to be very difficult, however, to introduce a rational process of
balancing the competing claims on public resources and an adequate degree of



8
control of the investment program. It was not possible to create a binding link
between the PIP and budgetary expenditure allocations, which were under the
authority of the Ministry of Finance. Thus, several projects of doubtful
economic merit were decided upon by individual ministers with the consent of the
President, but without involvement of the Ministry of Planning or the Economic
and Financial Coordination Committee (CCEF). Before the introduction of a
procurement code by end-1988 project costs were often judged excessive by the
Bank. Despite the focussing of the PIP on the new economic priorities the
quality of the investment budget continued to reflect the inadequate programming
and control procedures and the lack of formal monitoring capacities.
3.11    Duriitg the negotiations on the adjustment program no reliable budgetary
data were available, and no strict budgetary limits could be established. Under
SAL I the Ministry of Finance was neither in a position to effectively control
expenditures nor to manage revenue generation in an appropriate manner. Thus,
the government did not comply with the SAL I provision for prompt settlement of
bills for water and electricity services. However, as the public utilities were
in a complete financial disarray themselves, the Bank waived this condition. The
first meaningful budget was established for the year 1988, but the budgetary
process is still weak, particularly on the revenue side. In retrospect, it
appears to have been a mistake to concentrate the public finance component of
the adjustment program only on investment programming and not on public finance
in general. As the companion TA operation also focussed on the support of the
Ministry of Planning, the needed improvement of institutional capacities in the
Ministry of Finance has been delayed until end-1989, when under SAL II an
ongoing French TA program for the Ministry was complemented by Bank financed
advisers, particularly for the improvement of revenue generating mechanisms.
Four years after the launching of the adjustment program the low level of non-
mining tax revenues (4-5% of GDP) and the continuing financial disarray in the
public sector remains the major weakness of economic policy in Guinea.
IV. IMPACT AND INITIAL RESULTS
4.01     With GDP growth rates of 3.1% in 1987 and 5.9% in 1988 the economy has
reacted favorably to the adjustment measures. This growth is due mainly to a
positive supply response of the agricultural sector, the diversification of the
mining sector (gold, diamonds, quarries) as well as increased activities in
construction, agro-industry, transport and trade. The inflation rate has
declined from 72% in 1986 to 34% in 1987 and 27% in 1988, but the fiscal and
balance of payments deficits did not decline as planned: in 1988 the budget
deficit amounted to about 9% of GDP, the current account deficit to over 11% of
GDP. The slippages in financial discipline which led to those unsustainable
macroeconomic developments distorted the relations between Guinea and the Fund
and were also a major reason for the delay of the second tranche release of the
SAL which was effected only in January 1988, almost two years after effective-
ness of the credit.
4.02       Major progress was achieved in the area of monetary and banking
reforms. The massive devaluation at the outset of the program was a successful
operation, as it laid the foundation for the unification of the official and
non-official sectors ot the economy and for the resumption of economic growth
and relative monetary stability. The SAL, in combination with the Fund's



9
policies, was instrumental in creating the conditions for a major external
support operation by the donor community, without which the devaluation would
have been inconceivable in the view of the Guinean authorities. The banking
reform can also be regarded as successful, with four private banks replacing the
former inefficient system of state banks. However, due to the inadequate legal
framework and the structural deficiencies of the economy the intermediary role
of the banks is still weak and they provide almost no medium to long-term
investment financing for the productive sectors.
4.03    In the other areas of reform the progress under SAL I has been slow and
not without setbacks, but the actions taken by the government, e.g. for the
reduction and restructuring of the civil service, have been courageous. Both the
civil service reform and the privatization and liquidation of public sector
enterprises were devised in an ad-hoc manner by the Bank, leading to some
debatable results and a certain loss of credibility of the government's policies
in the view of the public. The reform of the incentive system (tariff and price
reforms, institutional and legal framework) led to some favorable results in the
agricultural and trade sectors. However, there has been no significant increase
in private investment, neither local nor foreign, in other sectors. It seems,
that a propitious climate for private investment will emerge only when the legal
and institutional framework is developed further and when the deteriorated
physical infrastructure of the country is rehabilitated. It was clearly too
optimistic to expect a major supply response from the private sector already
during 1987 (para. 2.04), leading to significant employment creation in the
formal sector of the economy. It appears, that there has been some employment
creation in the urban construction, small-scale and informal sectors, compensat-
ing partly for the reduction of the number of civil servants. The social
consequences of these processes are difficult to assess however, as under SAL
I there has been no systematic monitoring of the social effects on different
groups in the society.
V. FINDINGS AND ISSUES
5.01      Taking into account the weak institutional capacities of the Guinean
administration, particularly the scarce human resources at the middle level of
the public institutions, the schedule of reforms under SAL I was very ambitious.
However, if SAL I is seen as the first phase in a sequence of policy-based
lending operations, its contents and conditionality appear appropriate in view
of the severe distortions of the Guinean economy. It was a logical st..p to
commence with a thorough monetary reform and concentrate the subsequent
structural reform measures on deregulation and liberalization on the one hand
and on public sector reform on the other. After many years of economic mis-
management the human resources and the material base of the country were
weakened to such an extent, that quick results could not be expected. Seen from
that angle, the gradual improvements since the start of the adjustment program
can be regarded as a success, but the remaining requirements for reform are
enormous.  The medium-term growth perspectives are only modest, taking into
account the weak financial position of the country and the expected deteriora-
tion in its terms of trade.
5.02    As the Guinean government was not in the position to design a coherent



10
adjustment program on its own, this function was necessarily performed by Bank
and Fund staff with the consequence that the program was not internalized
sufficiently by the Guinean authorities. However the resident missions of the
Fund and the Bank engaged in a close dialogue with the government on details of
the implementation. The supporting role of the Bank's resident mission was very
important in that phase and there was good coordination with the Fund mission.
However, technical support through the resident missions and in the framework
of the companion TA operation for economic management was not sufficient to
substitute for the fundamental management deficits in the Guinean administra-
tion. It would have been necessary to devise a comprehensive human resource
development plan for the core ministries in order to provide for a medium-term
improvement of institutional capacities and thus for a better internalization
of subsequent SAL's. A technical unit attached to the coordinating body CCEF
could perform this function only partly under the subsequent SAL II.
5.03     The administrative deficiencies were felt particularly in the area of
public finance, where SAL I focussed mainly on the establishment of a rational
public investment program but neglected revenue generation and btudgetary
management in general.  The persistent fiscal weakness  remains  the major
bottleneck in economic policy making in Guinea.
5.04     Due to the weak data base at the outset, the conditionality of SAL I
was not very precise and there were almost no quantitative policy targets. This
approach, as well as the waiving of some conditions appears to be appropriate
in view of the prevailing conditions of the country. Despite the flexibility of
the Bank it took almost two years until the second tranche of the credit could
be disbursed, throwing some light on the difficulties the government had in
implementing the reforms. This flexible and ad-hoc approach of the Bank had its
disadvantages when it came to comprehensive reform programs such as the
restructuring of the public service and the public enterprise reform. in these
areas more thorough planning and support would have been required. The Bank's
approach was somewhat hasty, not wanting to miss the opportunity of the
government's commitment to reform. As Guinea's reform requirements as well as
its requirements for support are definitely of a long-term nature, there seems
to be no need for hasty reforms, but for persistence and determination with
regard to the implementation of agreed measures. As there have been no major
disagreements in substance between the Bank and the Guinean authorities, but
only in the timing of spec.:fic measures, there appears to be a good basis for
further collaboration.



11
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA AO11)
June 28, 1989
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department



13
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREQIT
(CREDITS 1659-GUI AND SFA A011)
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
I. Introduction
1.        The first structural adjustment loan (SAL I) was approved by the
Executive Directors on February 11. 1986 after an extensive preparation
effort that began in April of 1984. SAL I was the instrument through which
the Bank and bilateral donors embarked with the Republic of Guinea on a
new, revitalized partnership made possible largely by the dramatic shift in
policy direction taken by the new Government under the Second Republic.
2.        This completion report on SAL I describes the setting within
which the program was devised and carried out: its objectives, the measures
undertaken, the degree of success in implementation, and in so far as it is
possible, their economic impact. A short section is devoted to
disbursement and other loan supervision matters. Finally, an attempt is
made to identify lessons learned from the experience.
3.        It is difficult to carry out a retrospective assessment of the
first phase of Guinea's structural adjustment program, or to attempt to
draw meaningful lessons for the future, without a review of the backdrop
for the shift in policy direction, a useful measure of the formidable
challenges then faced by the new Government.
II. Setting
4.        The death of President S4kou Toure in late March 1984 and the
subsequent assumption of power by a group of military officers largely
unknown to the outside world marked the end of a political era and Guinea's
first twenty five years of independence. A quarter century of
mismanagement had brought the country to the brink of economic collapse,
denpite agricultural, mineral and energy resources that make Guinea one of
the best endowed countries in Africa.
5.        Per capita income in this country of 5.6 million (1986)
inhabitants is less than US$300 (1986), placing it among the least
developed countries as defined by the United Nations. Living standards are
uniformly poor, as reflected in key social indicators: life expectancy is
37 years, infant mortality is about 160 per thousand, more than 80 percent
of the population lacks access to safe water and 80 percent of the
population is illiterate.
6.        From being a major exporter of agricultural products at
independence, Guinea's economy was transformed by the mid-1970s into that
of a major bauxite exporter and a net food importer. The private sector
was largely displaced by a pervasive network of state enterprises in all
sectors of the economy. Urbanization accelerated as farming became
unprofitable and productive activities and 4ncomes were increasingly
shifted from the rural to the urban sector.
7.        Emphasis on state-led development achieved none of the expected
modernization and industrialization objectives; the currency became
increasingly overvalued under pressure from the inefficient and overstaffed



14
public sector which financed its decisions through monetary expansion.
further preventing the development of exports or efficient import
substitution activities; the inability to mobilize domestic savings led to
an increasingly heavy debt burden; and the once dynamic agricultural sector
retreated into subsistence production. Throughout the 1958-84 period, the
economy produced at levels well below potential due to the lack of producer
incentives and deteriorating infrastructure: By the early 1980s, the road
network had become virtually unusable, electricity supply was erratic at
best, telecommunication links within the country and with the outside world
were all but impossible, and the capital city of Conakry had itself
physically deteriorated to an extent probably unparalleled in peacetime.
8.        Guinea's centrally-planned model of development led to an
increasingly dualistic economy. The official sector depended on baux.Lte
exports for its income and functioned through an elaborate system of
administered prices linked to the highly overvalued currency 1I while the
non-official sector, which derived its income from clandestine exports and
private transfers from abroad, was supplied largely by smuggled or pilfered
imports. Its scope expanded steadily by necessity as the supply of goods
imported through official channels became insufficient to meet demand for
foodstuffs and other essential goods.
9.        The extended deterioration of Guinea's economy was reflected in
increasingly severe financial difficulties by the early 1980s. The
financial position of the Government itself wa3 eroded chiefly by poor
performance in the parastatal sector. Tax receipts and transfers from
public enterprises declined as the "underground0 private sector grew to
dominate consumer trade, while budgetary subsidies to public enterprises
expanded. The economy's external position became unsustainable, chiefly
the result of public investment outside the mining enclave which failed to
generate returns adequate to service the associated external debt.
Mounting debt service obligstions and private capital flight, unmatched by
increments in capital inflows, resulted in a continual rise in the foreign
liabilities of the Central Bank and a massive accumulation of payment
arrears.
10.       From all accounts, the run-down state of the economy inherited
by the new Government was of near tragic proportions in the human and
instLtutional areass repressive policies sapped Guinea of its
intellectuals and its best entrepreneurs who emigrated in vast numbers
during the first two decades of independence; traditional values were
displaced by ideological doctrine; farmers living only at subsistence level
were forced to make compulsory sales to the State and movement of goods and
people was severely constrained; the legal system was in shambles as
arbitrary authority substituted for due process; and ineffectual public
institutions proliferated to absorb an inflated civil service whose
remuneration consisted largely of official rations, notably rice.
1/ The Guinea Syli (GS) traded officially at 23 GS/US$ at the end of 1985
as against a parallel market rate of about 400 GS/US$.



15
III. The Economic and Financial Reform Proeram
11.       The military coup that brought a new regime to power in April
1984 was accompanied by a dramatic change in Guinea's political and
economic policies. Acknowledging the bleak economic situation it
inherited, and cn the advice of the IMF and the Bank, the new Government
moved quickly to free private sector initiative. Among the first actions
taken by the new Government, all internal barriers to the movement of
goods. and compulsory sales by farmers to the State, were abolished in May
1984. as were tLe ENCOBEs (State cattle-trading companies) and the FAPAs
(State agropastoral farms). A new investment code was enacted in October
1984, and a new banking law in March 1985. With these and other initial
steps taken by the Government, the private sector became primarily
responsible for the importation of all commodities except rice and
petroleum products. The Government also promulgated a new commercial law
governing all trading activities. These steps demonstrated the
Government's intention to rely increasingly on private sector initiative in
all activities previously under the monopoly of state-owned enterprises.
They also paved the way for ihe Bank to prepare SAL I which was to be
complemented by Special Joint Financing from Germany and Japan, and
cofinancing from Switzerland, France, and the United States. SAL. I was
approved by the Board on February 11, 1986 and was declared effective on
May 15, 1986. The Government's program of reforms was further supported by
the IMF under a thirteen month stand-by arrangement which expired ,n April
1987 after being extended for an additional month.
12.       The overriding objective of the Government's program supported
by the international financial community was to free the economy from
pervasive state controls and Government intervention and to put in place a
policy framework supporting a market-oriented economic system. Specific
measures to meet this broad objective were designed to: (i) correct the
serious overvaluation of the currency; (ii) establish a new, reliable
banking system to replace bankrupt state banks; (iii) decontrol prices;
(iv) liberalize internal and external trade; (v) introduce institutional
reforms to promote private sector savings and investment; (vi) reduce the
scale and improve the efficiency of the public sector by cutting employment
levels and by withdrawing from commercial and industrial activity; md
(vii) reorient public investment towards supporting the directly productive
sectors.
13.       While the Fund and the Bank supported jointly all the elements
of the Government program, the Fund took the lead in advising the
Government in areas falling within its domain, i.e. exchange rate
adjustment and monetary reform and related measures (price adjustment.
establishment of a new trading company, reorganization of the Central
Bank), public finance management, credit policy and external debt
management. The Fund also supported the Bank-financed SAL program, i.e.
the reform of the banking system (establishment of new banks), the
reduction of the civil service and public sector salary policy, the
parapublic enterprise reform, import liberalization and tariff reform. In
addition, the Bank focussed on necessary measures to improve the incentive
system and on reforms aimed at reinforcing the legal/institutional
framework to support private sector initiative. These reforms were further



16
supported by a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1559-GUI) which was
approved by the Board on March 14, 1985.
14.       The specific conditions fcr the release of the SAL second
tranche weres (i) satisfactory progress on the overall program; (ii)
promulgation of an investment code and suitable implementation procedures,
a revised commercial law and a petroleum code, acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) negotiation of a multilateral debt rescheduling; (iv) start of a
liquidation program for the state-controlled primary banks; (v) reduction
in the number of public employees by 10,000 persons below the number on
duty on January 1, 1986; (vi) a review of rice stocking and distribution
arrangements for 1986; and (vii) adjustment of the price of rice, zoffee,
palm kernels and petroleum in a marler acceptable to the Batik, and on the
basis of a review of these prices in the second quarter of 1986. Second
tranche was released on January 15, 1988.
15.       In addition to the specific conditions for second tranche
release, three particular covenants are worthy of note 21/
(i)  Section 3.02. Payment by government agencies and departments of
charges for water and electricity delivered to them not later
than 30 days after receipt of a bill for such services;
(ii) Section 3.03. Establishment, not later than March 31, 1986, of a
plan of action for the restructuring of the non-industrial
parapublic sector, acceptable to the Association;
(iii)Section 3.04. Consulting with the Association prior to: (a)
making any changes in the contractual or fiscal arrangements
pertaining to the exploitation of bauxite; and (b) creating a
new state enterprise or participating in a new mixed enterprise.
The Government's statement of development policy is in Annex I.
IV. Program Imolementation
16.       In reviewing Guinea's implementation of the structural
adjustment program, several factors need to be borne in mind 
-    The program was largely designed by the Bank and IMF
staff at the request of the new military Government
which adopted it;
-    The conditions that existed at the time, particularly
the need for the new leaders to consolidate political
and administrative authority made impossible a wider
internalization of the program before its launching;
2 Article III of the Development Credit and African Facility Agreements.



17
-    Among the conditions inherited by the  'w Government
was an administration in disarray whiL' was itself
targeted under the reform program.
A.   Monetarl and Banking Reform
17.       This is an area where impressive progress was achieved owing to
the decisiveness of the authorities in implementing the necessary reforms
in the earliest phase of program implementation. In early 1986, the
Government devalued the currency for public transactions by a factor of
twelve (from GS 3 to GS 300lUS$) while a second window for private sect,,r
activities was established initially at the rate of GS 345/US$ and
subsequently subject to a weekly auction. Shortly thereafter, the Guinean
franc (GF) replaced the syli as the country's currency. Finally, in May
1986, the Central Bank unified t.he two exchange windows, requiring the
Government to purchase foreign exchange at the rate determined at the
weekly auctions, which became open to most current account transactions of
the private and parastatal sectors. After the initial large devaluation in
1986, the rate of exchange was continuously adjusted; however, with
inflation only declining from 72Z in 1986 to 34Z in 1987, the adjustment
was not sufficient to maintain Guinea's competitiveness. The authorities
were also reluctant to allow supply and demand of foreign exchange to
freely determine the rate, relying instead on a system of fixing by the
Central Bank. It was only in late 1988 at the urging of both the IMF and
the Bank, that the authorities began to use the exchange rate as an
instrument of macroeconomic policy by acting to regain the lost
competitiveness and keep the rate at realistic levels.
18.       During the SAL I program, the Central Bank did not pursue a
flexible interest rate policy, a macroeconomic variable that admittedly was
not considered explicitly in the design of the program. 31 Interest rates
on deposits were introduced in 1986 but remained highly negative in real
terms, fueling demand for foreign exchange which along with tangible assets
were preferred to Guinean franc holdings. No doubt, this policy obstructed
efforts to maintain adequate levels of reserves and reduce the gap between
the official and parallel market rates of exchange. The persisting foreign
exchange constraints in Guinea, at times severe, continually posed the risk
that the Central Bank would resort to discretionary restrictions and
informal administrative quotas to try and curb import demand rathe- than
use more aggressively the price mechanism. The Central Bank did mI.ntain a
system of prior import declarations (descriptifs d'importation) which, with
a few exceptions, proved more of a nuisance for the private sector than a
restriction on its access to foreign exchange. Nonetheless, it has been
suggested that private investment has been inhibited by the uncertain
prospect of foreign exchange availability.
31 Neither the letter of Development Policy nor the Bank's President's
Report made any mention of interest rate policy. This is understandable,
given that these were formulated in the period of transition from a state-
owned to a private banking system during which time virtually no banking
activity was taking place. However, during the second phase of the
adjustment program interest rates are being progressively liberalized.



18
19.       As part of the program of monetary reform, all six state banks
were closed just prior to the change in currency and replaced with three
new majority private joint-venture banks. A fourth new commercial bank was
subsequently set up in early 1988. The domestic liabilities of the closed
banks were identified, small depositors reimbursed, and the position of the
banks vis-a-vis correspondent banks was established with a portion of these
liabilities rescheduled. The Bank accepted the timetable submitted by the
..overnment, calling for completion of the acco,unting liquidation by end-
1988. In effect, the liquidation of the state-controlled banks, a complex
process, proceeded in a satisfactory marner, satisfying the specific
tranche release provision. Confidence in the new banking system seems to
have been quickly restored, judging by the readiness with which private
Guineans opened (mostly foreign exchange) accounts with the new banks,
despite the difficult environment in which these have had to operate 4/ and
the evolving process of establishing the Central Bank as a full-fledged
monetary authority.
20.       While the Guinean banking system made reasonable progress
towards the objectives of private resource mobilization and intermediation,
it operated within a distorted incentive environment and displayed a number
of structural weaknesses. With money in circulation comprising 70? of
total money supply, the dominance of the Central Bank in managing liquidity
has been overwhelming. A more flexible interest rate policy reflecting the
scarcity of capital might have helped the mobilization of savings and their
channelling to efficient activities. Moreover, the lack of an adequate
legal framework (para 31) for financial contracts appears to have been an
important factor in encouraging private banks to be risk-averse in
extending credit from their own resources, currently limited to short-term
trade activities; under externally funded lines of credit, banks assume
little or no commercial risks. 5/
B.   Price and MarketinR Policy
21.       As indicated earlier, during the first phase of structural
adjustment all prices were decontrolled by the Government with few
exceptions, notably the prices for rice and petroleum products. Imports
were also liberalized and the private sector could engage freely in all
levels of internal and external marketing. In practice, the private sector
has had to face obstacles posed by an unwieldy and disorganized
administration, traditionally used to controlling and regulating, and
unaccustomed to the new support role that a market economy requires.
Nonetheless, the prevailing economic environment shaped by Government
policy stands in marked contrast to the centrally-planned economy of the
past and by any reasonable standard, the country has made considerable
4./ In one bank (BICIGUI) which became the first institution with branches
in the interior and the principal financial intermediary for externally
financed lines of credit, including the Bank's Industrial Rehabilitation
and Promotion Project (Cr. 1234-GUI), the Bank provided extensive
assistance which included payment of salaries for foreign personnel.
5/ In the case of the Bank line of credit (Cr. 1234-GUI), the commercial
risk is assumed by the Government.



19
strides in its economic liberalization program. The burst of free
enterprise that followed the decontrol of prices and the liberalization of
trade is quite apparent as is the unifying of the official and parallel
markets which played an important role in generating a favorable supply
response in the agricultural sector (para 54). While the exchange rate
reform corrected the most highly distorted *price" in the Guinean economy,
its impact on relative prices of tradeables and non-tradeables would have
clearly remained partial had the Government not addressed at the same time
the pervasive system of price controls.
22.       In the specific case of rice, the Government ceased to intervere
directly in its distribution and abolished the system of ration cards that
existed in the previous administration. Initially, most, if not all,
commercial rice imports were handled by the Guinean Commercial Company
(SGC), a joint venture newly set up with bilateral financing from France.
In time, the private traders were allowed to enter the rice import market
but their activities, particularly their profit margins were regulated.
This practice along with a policy consisting of fixing administratively the
wholesale price of imported rice tended to restrict the trade to a handful
of operators, a situation which in turn encouraged continued Government
scrutiny of their activities. The authorities have been reluctant to free
the commercial rice trade completely ar.d allow prices to be determined
solely by market conditions within a more competitive domestic environment.
While perceived political risks inherent to such a sensitive commodity may
partly explain the reluctance, other considerations are often cited
including the relatively small size of the Guinean market (150,000 tons of
commercial rice imports in 1986) which is seen as discouraging market entry
of new international traders, the unpredictable timing of food aid rice
shipments which alter considerably the domestic supply and demand picture
given the limited stocking capacity that exists in Conakry, and unclear
weights attached by Government to two potentially conflicting objectives:
self-sufficiency and relatively stable and low consumer prices.
23.       Under SAL I, the Government was to carry out a review of its
rice stocking and wholesale distribution arrangements. The wholesale price
of imported rice was also to be reviewed quarterly and the release of the
second tranche was conditioned upon making any necessary adjustment to
ensure that the price reflects full import costs at the prevailing exchange
rate and thus does not compete unfairly with domestic production. The
review of the rice stocking and wholesale distribution arrangements does
not appear to have been formally conducted although a half dozen studies on
the rice sector have been carried out with financing, provided by bilateral
and other multilateral institutions, notably UNCTAD and UNDP since early
1986, leading to different conclusions and ultimately confronting
Government with conflicting advice. In the event, the Bank was satisfied
during the second tranche review with the distribution arrangements
described above.
24.       The wholesale price of imported rice was fixed at FG 80/kg
immediately following the devaluation in early January 1986, representing
an import-parity price. Subsequent to the unification of the exchange
rates for public sector operations and private sector transactions, in May
1986, the wholesale price was increased to GF100/kg to reflect the new
exchange rate of FG 360 per US dollar. Furthermore, since mid-1987 the



20
Government has allowed commercially imported rice, after negotiations with
traders in co-nection with each shipment, to be sold at market prices both
at the wholesale and retail levels. Food aid rice which represented about
one-third of imports in 1988 was kept subject to the administratively fixed
wholesale price of FG 100/kg or 20-25 percent less than economic cost at
the time of second tranche review in December 1987.
25.       This non-comoliance with the SAL I provision was flagged by Bank
staff who nonetheless recommended the release of the second tranche in the
light of overall satisfactory progress achieved on other fronts in
connection with the implementation of the program.
26.       Rice pricing and marketing issues have commanded a large share
of attention in the Bank's dialogue due to actions taken by the Government
that were seen by Bank staff as running counter to the spirit or the letter
of the Government's Policy Declaration Letter. Such instances inclutda the
occasions when the price of rice did not reflect import parity, when the
decision, temporary as it turned out, was taken to prohibit the marketing
of rice outside of Conakrv where a shortage was feared, or when a public
entity (l'Office de Ravitaillement) was also temporarily resurrected to
market rice at subsidized prices.
27.       The Bank has used the SAL process effectively to conduct a
dialogue that has been successful in the sense that Government involvement
in the rice sector has been kept minimal, the system of production
incentives has also remained by and large sound, and there is a growing
constituency within the Government that resists state interventionism. But
the frequency with which rice issues re-surface as a major element in the
overall dialogue, including their continued consideration in the design of
SAL II, suggests that there may still be less than full agreement on all
the elements of a policy that can be internalized in Guinea and receive the
support of all donors, notably USAID (the largest provider of food-aid
rice) and UN-affiliated institutions which have financed most of the
studies and long-term consultants in the rice sector.
28.       The retail price of petroleum products was also adjusted at the
time of the unification of the exchange rate in May, 1986 from FG 115 to FG
140/litre, with the FG 25 per litre increase representing a specific tax.
Subsequently, on December $1, 1987, the Government increased the specific
tax by FG 110/litre, resulting in a retail price for petroleum products of
FG 250/litre. With this latter increase, also a condition of the Transport
Credit (Cr. 1815-GUI) approved by the Board on June 4, 1987, the Government
responded fully to the Bank's concerns regarding the underexploitation of
the revenue potential of hydrocarbon consumption and the significant re-
exports to neighboring countries. Unfortunately, only a part of the
expected tax revenues were actually realized due to the serious operating
deficiencies of ONAH, the petroleum import and distribution company.
aLeakages" from ONAH have been unacceptably large, averaging more than half
of the domestic market value of distributed petroleum products over the
past three years. At the advice of the Bank, the Government has recently
entrusted the responsibility for the ma..agement of ONAH to an
administrator, pending the conclusion of an agreement with a consortium of
international oil companies to set up a new company to distribute petroleum
products. The Government intends subsequently to liquidate ONAH.



21
29.       The price at which PROSECO, the state enterprise in charge of
marketing and exports, would purchase coffee and palm kernels in Conakry
was set at end-1985 at FG 500/kg and FG 100/kg, respectively. Following
the abolition of PROSECO's monopoly in early 1986, the private sector took
over the marketing of coffee almost entirely. Due to significant
competition among traders and developments in the international market, the
price received by farmers was significantly above the PROSECO price. In
view of the level of remuneration for producers, which demonstrated that
liberalization in prices would not merely benefit the traders, and the
inability of PROSECO to market sizeable quantities of coffee in 1986, the
Government decided that there were no good reasons for maintaining PROSECO
as a full; state-owned company. The Government still announces official
prices for their informational value to producers, but these seem to have
no effect on the market. The level of these prices for the 1987 campaign
were deemed satisfactory by the Bank, in the light of prevailing
international market prices for coffee and palm kernels.
C.   Trade and Tariff policy
30.       Import and export procedures were radically simplified.  All
import licensing was abolished and replaced with an import declaration,
granted to all registered traders. While the forms are filed with
commercial banks, until end-1988 the Central Bank retained the authority
for final approval for the purposes of the foreign exchange auction, at
times exercising administrative discretion in a process designed to be
automatic. Following the devaluation of January 1986, a highly simplified
tariff regime was introduced with rates set at low levels. With a few
exemptions, imports have been made subject to a base rate of 10 percent,
with a flat turnover tax of 10 percent, and surcharges of 20-40 percent for
luxury goods. Overall rates were purposely set at low levels to take
account of the increase in the taxable base and dampen inflationary effects
of imports following the devaluation, reduce tax evasion, and avoid
excessive protection to import-substituting industries. Unfortunately,
only a fraction of the budgetary revenues expected from import tariffs were
realized until the recent improvements which result from the steps taken to
revamp the inefficient customs service and improve tax on revenue
collec.tion in general, a major objective of SAL II. In addition, the
scheme of deductibility of turnover taxes on imported inputs is not being
applied systematically or uniformly. Notwithstanding these problems which
are inherent in the country's weak institutional fabric, Guinea has adopted
a tariff regime that must be considered one of the most liberal in Africa.
D.   Legal and Institutional Reforms
31.       Under SAL I, the Government began the difficult and long process
of establishing a new legal/institutional framework to complement the
incentive system supportive of efficient private sector growth. Three
major new codes relating to investment, mining and petroleum were adapted.
The new Investment Code which many private investors have found too



22
complex, 61 provides the country with guidelines applicable to investments
worthy of encouragement, including time-bound fiscal incentives designed to
be neutral in their impact on production decisions. The preparation of a
customs code has also been recently completed and laws pertaining to
regulations of the banking sector and of commercial activity have .een also
adopted. In early 1989, several long-term legal advisors financed under
the Technical Assistance Project have taken up their assignment after about
twelve months delay, to assist in drawing up economic legislation and to
advise the authorities in contract negotiations. For policy reasons, the
Bank was not in a position to respond favorably to a Government request for
the financing of a larger program of legal assistance to help in the
establishment of a badly needed judicial system including training of
manpower from clerks to judges. The weakness of the current framework
characterized by an absence of clear procedures for legal recourse or
remedy and unclear property ownership rights is cited by foreign investors
as the major impediment to investment in the country. It is also believed
to have affected the international image of Guinea which is involved in
numerous financial litigation cases in foreign courts. In these
conditions, IFC, for example, continues the practice of requiring off-shore
account arrangements and a presidential approval in lieu of a legal opinion
in connection with its investments.   This situation reflects the
dilapidated legal system the current Government has inherited. It is hoped
that other, particularly bilateral, donors would assist in rebuilding the
legal system. The establishment of due process is indeed an essential
complement to the new economic orientation of the country and a major
determinant of foreign investors' confidence. 7/
E.   Administrative Reform
32.       If the over&ul of the economic incentive structure was
successfully carried "t in spite of the weak administration,
implementation of the civ4l service and parapublic sector reforms
encountered major difficulties.
33.       The Second Republic inherited an overstaffed, largely unskilled,
underpaid and unmotivated civil service. The primary objective of the
Administrative Reform program was to develop an efficient and motivated
public sector work force by reducing the number of redundant and unskilled
employees, improving the organization and management of public agencies and
upgrading the employment conditions of remaining staff, including granting
substantial salary increases to offset the loss of ration privileges and to
compensate for inflation.
34.       (il  Staff Reductions.  At the time the reform was launched at
end-1985, a reduction of 20,000 staff by end-1986 was projected from an
initial stock of 88,000 public sector employees. This target proved to be
6/ See IFC/FIAS 1988 review of the Guinean Investment Code
71 A range of issues relating to the private sector incentive framework
will be addressed under the forthcoming Private Sector Promotion Credit
from IDA.



23
overly ambitious and unrealistic given the political sensitivity of the
measures as well as the administrative requirements of putting in place an
adequate framework for implementing the reform with minimum social
disruption. While accomplishments at the time of second tranche review fell
short of initial expectations, a reduction estimated at more than 10,000
was attained in the number of active duty civil servants, satisfying the
specific SAL provision. This was achieved by: (i) enforcing the retirement
age; (ii) instituting obligatory early retirement for civil servants with
25-30 years of service and/or of 55 years of age; (iii) placing those
formerly employed in the now closed public enterprises, including banks, in
an interim status of "administrative reserve" (disponibilit4 speciale),
which allowed them to continue to receive their monthly salaries albeit at
the level prevailing at the time of departure for a specified period, and
(iv) granting a resignation bonus to civil servants opting for a voluntary
departure scheme.
35.       The precise number of staff placed in each of the above
categories is difficult to ascertain given the lack of a reliable census of
civil servants and the absence of a centralized payroll system for the
administration, two unremedied weaknesses that have considerably hampered
the reorganization of the administration. A significant number, believed
to be considerably less than the 10,000 target set under SAL I, took
advantage of the voluntary departure scheme and qualified for severance
payments equivalent to about 5 years salary. Most of those who did not
take advantage of the voluntary departure scheme have remained in the
administrative reserve status and continued to draw a salary beyond the
transition limit set under this arrangement.
36.       In an effort to ease the absorption of redundant civil servants
into the private sector, the Government created an employment advisory
service to provide donor-financed technical assistance in the preparation
of banKable projects. Under this scheme, the severance pay could be used
as downpayment to secure loans up to five times that amount se that
departing civil servants with worthy projects could have access to
financial resources up to the equivalent of 25 years' salary. By the end
of 1988 about 1750 projects had been submitted for bank financing and 750
had actually been approved under externally financed lines of credit. The
slower than anticipated rate of absorption of civil servants into the
private sector no doubt discouraged other civil servants from opting for
the voluntary departure scheme and made it difficult for the Government to
end salary payments to those in administrative reserve status.
37.       (ii)  Reoraanization of the Administration.  During the SAL I
period work began (with UNDP financing) on defining the new organizational
structures of Government departments. A program to match staff
requirements to available staff through a testing and evaluation process.
with termination of redundant staff, was initiated. In addition,
Government instituted a program of incentives for early retirement. Much
of the conceptual work was completed quickly, but the actual implementation
of the program suffered from extensive delay due to the complex process
involved in the conduct of tests for virtually the entire administration;
this occurred at the same time as efforts were being made to ascertain its
exact size and to develop a central payroll system. It was only in late
1988, that the Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service (MRAFP)



24
which had been recently created, began to effectively update the civil
service census, implement in an orderly fashion the testing program and
give impetus to the process of defining new organizational structures of
Government departments. Until then, the Guinean administration had been
virtually paralyzed and the burden of implementing and monitoring the
country's ambitious program of economic reforms as well as in tending to
the day-to-day administration of a nation, fell on the shoulders of a very
few motivated individuals, many of whom had returned under the Second
Republic from exile abroad. It was not really until SAL II, i.e. early
1989, that significant progress was achieved in creating the conditions
necessary for developing an efficient and motivated public sector work
force, a major objective of the SAL I program.
38.       (iii) Salaries.  At the time the reform program was launched at
end-1985, the average civil service salary stood at FG 5,500 per month.
Following the devaluation of the currency and the dramatic increases in the
prices of rice and petroleum products, the Government introduced a cost-of-
living and a transport allowance. With an increase in base salary of 80
percent in May 1986, average civil service pay, inclusive of allowances
reached FG 16,400 (USS 45) per month. Thus, the average Guinean civil
servant earned in 1987 approximately 15 percent of the remuneration
received by his Togolese and Beninese counterparts and less than 10 percent
of that earned by the Ivorian civil servant. Bank staff have always
recognized that an increase in remuneration levels is clearly a necessary
condition, although in itself not a sufficient one, for promoting civil
service efficiency in Guinea. Despite recent increases in general salary
levels, average civil service salaries in Guinea remain low and, under
these circumstances, it is not surprising that the administration continues
to be plagued by lack of motivation and high rates of absenteeism. In view
of persisting financial constraints, Guinea will have to manage the civil
service wage bill carefully. Further progress in completing the program of
administrative reform, including the elimination of redundant staff, will
undoubtedly facilitate this task in the future, as there is improvement in
the principa. areas slated for progress under SAL II (i.e. revenue
collection and public finance management in general).
F.   Parapublic Sector Reform
39.       The restructuring of the public enterprise sector in Guinea was
seen as essential for the efficient utilization of existing assets, the
minimization of budgetary subsidies and transfers and the increased
responsiveness of the sector to the demands of the new, liberal economic
environment. Substantial progress was achieved in this element of the
reform program. In keeping with its economic orientation, the Government
successfully divested from most public enterprises, maintaining in its
portfolio mainly the essential service industries, utilities and existing
joint-venture mining companies. Despite the significant difficulties
encountered due to a lack of adequate accounts, resistance from parAstatal
staff, and the late promulgation of a legal liquidation framework in
November 1987, twenty five industrial public enterprises have been
privatized since the beginning of 1986, mostly in that year; 69 were closed
and are in various stages of liquidation, of which 33 were agricultural
marketing centers (EPCOA) and 6 oanks. A further 74 enterprises, mainly
commercial parastatals are currently in various stages of privatization or



25
liquidation. Only a dozen public enterprises of the nearly 180 in
existence in 1986 are currently scheduled to remain in the public
portfolio.
40.       While quantitative objectives were clearly met, the financial
and economic objectives of the program i.e. the reduction of the debt
burden and the increases in public revenue through privatization were at
times lost in the process. Liquidation of closed enterprise assets has not
contributed in any significant manner to meeting the enterprises' debt
obligations. Some privatized public enterprises were also sold at
relatively low prices with generous grace periods. Perhaps more
significantly, the importance of maintaining a competitive market
environment to foster efficient production was neglected in certain cases.
New monopoly rights (e.g. ENTAG, the cigarette factory; BONAGUI, soft drink
company; SIPECO, paint factory) and generous fiscal holidays were granted.
In these cases, economic efficiency objectives were unfortunately
sacrificed and potential tax revenues foregone.
41.       The divestiture program continues to generate much criticism ir.
Government circles, on account of the generous terms granted to investors
and the slow pace at which the privatized enterprises have effectively
resumed activity, more than half requiring substantial additional
investment that has not yet materialized. 8! In retrospect, the quality of
the program did suffer, justifying some criticism, due to some of the
conditions under which it was implemented, notably a lack if prior
guidelines for the program and an insufficient degree of transparency in
the actual process. At the same time, in terms of its scope and the
relative speed with which it was carried out, the results of the
divestiture program have clearl.y been impressive.
42.       Non-industrial public enterprises were also slated for
liquidation ard the Bank was satisfied with the calendar proposed by
Government, a provision of SAL I. The target date was end 1988; however,
this date has now proved to be unrealistic. Even less progress was
achieved in the rehabilitation of public enterprises slated to remain in
the Government portfolio. At present, these are managed essentially as
departments of the central Government and their supervision is diffused
among sector ministries (in charge of technical supervision), the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (in charge of financial supervision) and the
Ministry of Labor (responsible for employment issues), resulting in the
absence of a coordinated approach. The rehabilitation of public
enterprises involves a necessarily longer and technically more difficult
process than is involved in liquidation or even privatization, a process
for which the Bank is providing support under its traditional lending
program in various sectors. The restructuring of the enterprises in the
transport sector is well advanced under two ongoing Bank projects (Cr.
1815-GUI and Cr. 1915-GUI) as is the restructuring of the water sector
8/ In a press conference given in May 1988, the President of Guinea
deplored the generous terms granted to investors, expressed his
disappointment with the small volume of private resource inflows associated
with the privatization program and indicated that some of the contracts
would be reviewed.



26
under a recently-approved Bank project (Cr. 1985-GUI) while for other
sectors, projects are still currently in various stages of preparation.
Most urgent is the rehabilitation of the electricity and telecommunications
companies whose physical services and financial management are in need of
vast improvement to sustain the economic recovery and contribute to the
desired improvement in public finances. Under these circumstances, the
Goveranent has not complied with the SAL I provision for prompt settlement
of bills for water and electricity s -vices provided to government agencies
and departments. Until a minimum of X nancial management responsibility
can be developed by these utilities, ideally in the context of
comprehensive rehabilitation plans, Government would seem well advised to
continue restr5cting the amount of financial resources it provides.
43.       It was a provision of SAL I that the Goverrment would conault
with the Bank prior to making any changes in the contractual or fiscal
arrangements pertaining to the exploitation of bauxite. It also undertook
to consult with the Bank prior to creating a new state enterprise or
participating in a new mixed enterprise. While the Government complied
with the first provision and Bank staff comments on the CBG (Compagnie des
Bauxites de Guinee) bauxite contract were taken into account, the
experience with regard to the second provision was mixed. The Bank was
informed only a Posteriori of the creation of a public housing company
(SOLOPRIMO) and a state-owned housing bank (CREMONA). At the urging of the
Bank, the Government agreed to undertake a housing sector policy study to
look into the desirability of setting up such structures, which have never
become operational, and to formulate a comprehensive policy, including
appropriate financial mechanisms, to help meet the substantial need for
housing in the country. The results of the study have become available and
Bank support is envisaged in connection with an urban project currently
under preparation. The Bank was informed of the creation of the joint
venture for the management of the airport (SOGEAC), a project that
materialized with French bilateral support. For the newly privatized
companies in which the Government had decided to retain minority shares,
consultations took place, but only after Bank prodding and in most cases
when negotiations with private partners were already too advanced to permit
a constructive input on the part of the Bank.
G.   Public Investment
44.       Guinea's first public investment program (PIP) was prepared for
1986, a year of transition for investment programming as, in fact, for many
other aspects of economic management in the country. The focus of this
exercise was (i) to draw up as exhaustive an inventory of projects under
implementation as possible; (ii) to restrict the PIP to ongoing projects
only; and (iii) to exclude from the PIP projects of questionable econoxic
and social merit. This "weeding out" was done largely on the basis of Bank
staff's knowledge of then ongoing projects without any rigorous cost
benefit analysis. Subsequently, the Government adopted its first three-
year rolling public investment program for the period 1987-89 which was
presented to the first Consultative Group for Guinea in March 1987. 7he
Bank reviewed and endorsed the PIP which reflected the new, enlarged role
of the private sector and placed appropriate emphasis on the Government's
role in rehabilitating physical and human infrastructure and public
services in support of the private sector. After this encouraging start,



27
investment programming and control procedures in particular remained
woefully inadequate as sufficient capacity could not be developed for the
formal monitoring of disbursements or physical progress. Contributing to
the insufficient progress in this area was the extensive recourse to
autorisation de paiement for expenditures on projects outside the
investment budget. The implementation of the PIP also suffered from a lack
of Government procurement procedures. A procurement code was prepared with
financing provided under the Technical Assistance Project but its
promulgation became hostage to disagreements between the HPCI and the tEF,
which competed for a larger degree of control of the investment program.
There have been some recent improvements, notably the promulgation of a
procurement code in December 1988 and reasonably timely adoption of the
1989 budget (both provisions of SAL II), but project preparation and
implementation continue to be of insufficient quality. The sheer size of
the PIP 91, the large number of projects in the portfolio, and the
persisting weakness in economic and financial project preparation at the
level of all ministries, has understandably stretched the Government's very
limited capabilities and improvement may well be expected to be only
gradual. The first Technical Assistance Project was instrumental in making
operational the revamped MPCI but this has to be considered only a f!rst
small step in the process of building Guinea's institutional capacity for
economic planning and management. While SAL II and the second Technical
Assistance Project have been designed specificall; with a view to achieving
this objective, there is an urgent need to establish clearly the respective
roles of the MPCI, MEF and the technical ministries and set up monitoring
systems, and information and coordination networks among them. The absence
of a clear delineation of responsibilities within the administration has
served to aggravate normal interministerial rivalries concerning spheres of
jurisdiction. Frictions have been particularly acute between HPCI and MEF
over the power of payment authorization (ordonnancement) in connection with
the implementation of the PIP. Moreover, the refining of the programming
exercise will yield little benefit, however, if the PIP is not in turn
translated into a meaningful operational instrument in the form of an
investment budget with binding exper.diture allocations.
45.       During SAL I, two large projects (involving the construction of
army barracks and 500 classrooms) of doubtful economic justification were
the subject of extensive discussion between the Bank and the Government and
a major topic of a meeting between the Bank's Regional Vice-President and
the President of Guinea. Differences of view had less to do with the merit
of the projects than with their cost which was judged excessive by the
Bank. The fact that these investments jeopardized second tranche release
until a compromise was reached on their phasing and cost should not
overshadow the accomplishments of the Bank's dialogue with the Guinean
authorities on public investment; it is indeed a reflection of its quality
91 Expenditures programmed for 1987, at FG 87 billion, were 84 percent
higher than actual spending in 1986. Subsequent to this big increase in
1987, the programming for 1988 and 1989 shows some levelling off, with the
1989 level of investments being only 23 percent higher than the 1987 level.
Preliminary indications are that total spending in 1987 was only 80 percent
of programmed amounts, representing, nonetheless, a healthy increase in
total capital expenditures of 47 percent over 1986.



28
and of the Government's commitment to the spirit of reforms that the number
of questionable investments was small only three years after the launching
of the economic reform program.
H.   Coordination of External Assistance and Debt rescheduling
46.       Special features of Guinea's PIP are a near 1002 recourse to
external financing or concessional terms for its capital requirements and
for a significant share of current expenditures (e.g. local staff salaries)
associated with their implementation, a large number of active donors (all
traditional bilateral and multilateral institutions including virtually all
specialized agencies of the UN system, most Arab and OPEC institutions,
China and a large numDer of Eastern European countries are active in
Guinea), a vast number of projects (over 300), and anart from the few in
which the Bank is directly associated in connection with its lending
program, their relatively small size (about 'US$ 500,000 on average). For
any developing country, management of a portfolio with these
characteristics would be difficult. For a country with as weak an
institutional capacity as that of Guinea, it is a daunting task which
impacts negatively on the utility of resource transfers. Currently, many
projects still tend to be seen as enclaves of individual donors,
incorporating different design and policy features that contradict or even
undermine each other's objectives 10/. Ongoing Bank efforts to improve
the utility of aid flows include the First and Second Technical Assistance
Projects aimed at improving Guinea's own institutional capacity for the
efficient planning and use of available resources and the support provided
under other traditional and policy-based operations to develop national
policies that would help direct donor-sponsored activities and improve
their impact. This is certainly the right approach which should pay off in
the long run but in view of the urgent improvements that are needed -- and
their potential benefit for Guinea -- interim solutions deserve to be more
aggressively explored. The next Consultative Group Meeting for Guinea
could be an ideal opportunity to discuss qualitative improvements in aid
transfers and to identify flexible coordination mechanisms: indications are
that the Guinean authorities and traditional donors would welcome placing
the issue prominently on the agenda.
47.       The last provision of SAL I for a debt rescheduling was
satisfied. A Paris Club meeting was held in April 1986 to reschedule
Guinea's payment arrears as well as debt service obligations falling due
between January 1, 1986 and February 29, 1987. Another rescheduling
agreement with the Paris Club was reached in April 1989. The Governmnt of
Guinea has also initiated contacts with its other official bilateral
creditors, including the Eastern European countries, but no reschedulixg
10/ An example is the rice sector where no less than four projects within a
100 mile radius are under implementation with different cost recovery
policies for inputs ranging from free provision to full cost recovery. As
another illustration, there are 6 lines of credit provided by external
donors for the manufacturing sector carrying different onlending conditions
(terms and iDterest rates), Government guarantee requirements and
provisions for the assumption of foreign exchange and interest variability
risks.



29
agreements have yet been concluded. Finally, the Government has
rescheduled some of its obligations vis-a-vis private creditors, including
financial institutions and suppliers which did not fall within the purview
of the Paris Club.
I.   The Social Dimension of Adiustment
48.       The Government has been keen to ensure that adjustment with
growth is not pursued at the expense of equity. While the main thrust of
the program was in favor of private producers, particularly rural, the
Government adopted a number of transitional measures during the first phase
of the adjustment program in order to cushion its adverse effects on
vulnerable groups in urban areas. These measures which chiefly benefited
civil servants, includeds (i) additional payments to compensate for the
increases in the cost of living and transport resulting from the
devaluation and the increase in petroleum prices; (ii) continued payment of
salaries to laid off civil servants; (iii) voluntary departure bonuses with
access to loans at favorable rates; (iv) advisory services to the
retrenched civil servants; and (v) labor intensive work prograv3 to create
employment in Conakry funded in part through the Bank's urban project.
49.       Structural adjustment almost always involves winners and losers.
While the case of Guinea is no exception to this rule, the number of
winners which encompasses all the rural population and a majority of urban
dwellers is overwhelming in comparison to the rumber of people who lost
from the process, chiefly the laid off civil servants. There is probably
little that can be done in addition to what the authorities have themselves
undertaken with external assistance, to attenuate the impact of adjustment
on this small vulnerable group. The Bank itself realized this in the
course of preparation of a project initially conceived only to minimize the
impact of adjustment on adversely affected groups (Socioeconomic
Development Support Project, Cr. 1995-GUI, approved by the Board on March
28, 1989). As preparation proceeded, the design of the project was
refocussed - and its impact broadened - to benefit the poorest segments of
the population, whose lives do not seem to have been directly affected yet,
by the adjustment program. Through pilot schemes, the project will foster
their participation in the process of economic growth. Future Bank
activities will pick up on the results to further assist the Government in
its efforts aimed at ensuring that the benefits of Guinea's adjustment are
widely and equitably shared.
V. Government Monitoring of the Program
50.       The implementation of the SAL program has suffered from the
absence of a monitoring and coordinating body at the technical level. An
Economic and Financial Coordination Committee (CCEF) composed of cabinet
members was established in January 1986 to facilitate the decision-making
process, largely on issues requiring approval of the Council of Ministers.
The CCEF was not however equipped to conduct policy analysis or effectively
monitor the implementation of decisions, much less ensure internal
consistency in the actions of individual departments.  The CCEF was
assisted by the IMF representative in the country, a Bank staff member on
secondment to the IMF. He also managed the Secretariat of the CCEF,



30
preparing the agenda for discussion and the related background documents, a
role which proved useful in identifying operational issues that were
flagged to the Bank and IMP. While the CCEF has served a critically
important purpose given the administration's disarray, two factors have in
retrospect inhibited its role. First, the severe shortage of competent
Guineans on whom CCEF members could rely, has led to their involvement with
too many technical details consuming a large share of their already limited
time available for the management of their individual departments.
Understandably, meetings became infrequent, at times not taking place for
months in a row. Second, the CCEF included fourteen cabinet members, a
composition, which on balance, was too large for its primary responsibility
of facilitating decisions by the Council of Ministers. The large size, no
doubt, helped foster the internalization of the program within the
Government by allowing exhaustive discussion and cross-fertilization among
economic and technical ministries represented. The price, however, was
frequent postponement of meetings due to lack of a quorum and, most
importantly, long delays in achieving a consensus. As an example, twelve
sessions of CCEF were devoted to the legal technical assistance contract
financed under the Technical Assistance Project. As a consequence, after
the initial spate of reforms undertaken in late 1985 and the early part of
1986 in the areas of banking and monetary policy, trade and tariff policy
and administrative reform, the program progressed slowly and in some areas
such as rice pricing and marketing actually experienced temporary setbacks,
raising doubts within the international financial community about the
resolve of the Government to proceed w..th the reforms. This explains the
fact that the second tranche of SAL I was released only on January 15,
1988, almost two years after the loan was approved by the Executive
Directors and 20 months after it became effective. It was really only in
mid-1988 when the Government created a technical monitoring unit 111 on the
advice of the Bank and IMP, and took steps to reduce the size of the CCEF,
that the momentum of the reform program substantially picked up. The
Bank's second technical assistance project has been specifically designed
to provide support to the newly established technical monitoring committee
under the continued guidance of the CCEF.
VI. Bank Supervision
51.       Close to 82 staff weeks were spent on supervision of SAL I, of
which 50 staffweeks by programs staff, 25 by project staff and 7 by the
Resident Mission. This is doubtless an underestimate since much time
recorded under other tasks, particularly in the case of projects and
Resident Mission staff contributed to the structural adjustment process.
The supervision effort was hampered by difficulties in communications
between headquarters and Guinea: telex facilities which became operational
only in 1987 suffered from frequent breakdown, mail correspondence was
slow, and reliable telephone links did not exist until late in 1988.
Moreover, the poorly organized administration which lacked for the most
part even adequate physical facilities made program implementation and
tracking of its progress very difficult. These conditions also partly
111 The Committee is composed of representatives from MPCI, MEF, MRAPP and
the Central Bank including a Bank staff member on secondment to MPCI.



31
explain the long time it took to release second tranche of SAL I. The role
played by the Bank-seconded IMF representative in Conakry and the close
coordination between the Fund and the Bank ensured the follow-up of the
most critical elements of the program and facilitated its progress.
VII. Disbursement and Procurement
52.       Disbursements under the IDA and SFA credits were made into
Special Accounts opened at the Central Bank, with regular replenishments on
the basis of statements of expenditure and evidence that the funds were
used for eligible imports. A technical subgroup of the CCEF, with
representatives of the Central Bank and the MEF was to be established for
the purpose of preparing and certifying withdrawal applications, to be
signed by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The technical subgroup was
expected in particular to review import declarations to verify those
eligible for financing. Again for reasons that can be traced only to the
weakness of the administration, disbursements were extremely slow and the
credit was not fully disbursed until February 23, 1989. There is no
evidence that the technical subgroup was formally established, which
undoubtedly complicated the verification of import declarations for their
eligibility and contributed to the delays in drawing down the funds under
the IDA and SFt credits.
53.       The credit agreements stipulated that imports by the public
sector would be based on international competitive bidding for amounts
exceeding US$ 400,000 equivalent, but all contracts submitted for financing
were below this amount.
VIII. The Impact of SAL I
54.       During the first phase of the adjustment program. Guinea adopted
most of the initial corrective measures needed to eliminate the distortions
inherited from the past and to restore financial stability. These reforms
have yielded encouraging results. The economy grew by 6 percent in real
terms in 1987, implying an increase of over 3 percent in real per capita
incomes. Preliminary estimates suggest a similar performance in 1988
showing that structural changes are having the desired impact. Specific
area studies indicate a significant supply response to relative price
changes in the agricultural zones, with the rehabilitation and renewal of
coffee plantations and the significant expansion in areas under rice
cultivation in the last two years. The private sector rapidly replaced the
operations of the state company, PROSECO, and producers have reportedly
received as much as 80 percent of the Conakry FOB price for their coffee.
Exports of coffee rose to nearly 7,000 metric tons in 1987 compared to
negligible amounts in 1985. The small-scale enterprise and services
sectors, principally construction, agroindustry, transport and trade, are
also exhibiting significant increases in their activities. Preliminary
results from an informal-sector survey undertaken by the Ministry of Plan
and International Cooperation point to a 50 percent increase in the number
of informal businesses since early 1984 with the creation of as many as
21,000 jobs in Conakry alone. These supply responses reflect the shift in



32
the terms of trade away from the public sector towards the rural and
private industry and service sectors.
55.       These accomplishments should not suggest that the process of
structural adjustment in Guinea is complete. On the contrary, the
launching of this far-reaching program at end-1985 signalled only the
beginning of the process of adjustment for the Guinean economy and of a
long period of collaboration between the Bank and the Government.
Particularly in view of the starting point of the reforms, there is room
for considerable improvement in the performance of the Guinean economy and
in the Administration's economic management capabilities.
56.       In view of a projected deterioration in Guinea's terms of trade
and the limited prospects for rapid replacement of expected losses of
bauxite-based public resources in the short-term, Guinea confronts a drop
in export earnings and budgetary revenue at a time when it needs additional
resources to sustain the structural adjustment process and to restore the
country's physical infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, the single
most severe impediment to output recovery at this time, has to be rebuilt
almost entirely in order to restore the links between the capital city and
the interior. As mentioned earlier, power, water and telecommunication
networks need to be built up to reduce the infrastructural costs of
investments and to meet the growing demands of the private sector. Foreign
private investment which has not met Government expectations, would no
doubt be stimulated by the improved investment climate that the pursuit of
reforms will make possible, particularly on the legal and institutional
fronts.
57.       While the country's new banking sector has made progress towards
mobi.lizing domestic financial resources since its establishment in late
1985, it continues to face challenges. Branch banking has only recently
begun, major legal issues have not yet been fully resolved to permit
expansion of banking activities, and the role of the Central Bank is still
seen to be pervasive. Further development and expansion of the sector is
essential to facilitate intermediation and support the growth of private
sector savings and investment throughout the country.
58.       The Guinean administration remains poorly equipped to
effectively manage a liberal, market-oriented economy. Public finance
management is particularly weak both in expenditure control and in revenue
generation measures. Major additional efforts are needed to enhance
Guinea's non-mining revenues, which represent less than 2,5 percent of GDP
(1987), through stricter recovery of existing taxes and duties. This is
also true for improvements in investment programming and budgeting, to
ensure uniformity in portfolio quality and strengthen monitoring of
physical and financial implementation of projects. To this end, improved
institutional links between the technical ministries, the Ministry of Plan
and the Ministry of Economy and Finance would appear to be an important
requisite, Strengthening the public administration's ability to support
and service the market-oriented economy requires, above all, the
transformation of the unskilled, underpaid, and unmotivated civil service
inherited from the previous regime, into a trained, motivated and effective
cadre, responsive to the needs of the private sector. At a more
fundamental level, education and vocational training demand an extensive



33
overhaul if manpower skills are to support a steadily expanding private
sector and a lean efficient public administration.
59.       Nonetheless, the magnitude of progress achieved so far, in the
face of massive distortions iLlherited from the past and the limited human
resource base, is remarkable. With the disastrous economic and social
legacy of the Sekou Toure era as a backdrop, the long-term nature of the
systemic change embarked upon by the new regime and the significant
progress achieved to date, can be fully appreciated. But the momentum of
the adjustment process must be maintained to consolidate gains and lay
further the basis for sustai-ned growth over the long term.
IX. Lessons learned
60.       One of the most positive elements that seems to have evolved
from the ongoing relationship between the Bank and the Government is the
shared recognition that it is both unrealistic and unproductive to assume
that twenty five years of mismanagement which had resulted in an economy in
shambles, can be reversed in the span of a few years.
61.       From Guinea's perspective, the euphoria during the launching of
the program with its heightened expectations, has given way to realism
about what can be achieved and what must still be done. It is a reflection
of this realism that the pace of reforms which had slowed during most of
1987 and a good part of 1988, has regained momentum, facilitating the
conclusion of SAL II, a new Fund Program and a second Paris Club
rescheduling. More indicative perhaps is the fact that some of the reforms
were undertaken outside the Bank and IMF programs or at a quicker pace than
these envisaged. 12i
62.       From the view of Bank staff, there is a better appreciation of
the difficulties inherent in efforts to transform an inward-looking
centrally-planned economy into an open, free enterprise system,
12/ The Government has completed a major phase of the administrative reform
by finally announcing earlier this year, the results of tests for
ministries where these were conducted. (in some cases more than 12 months
ago). It has also taken important decisions on the final status of civil
servants not retained, including thc3e on administrative reserve. These
decisions exceeded the expectations of the Bank which had anticipated a
much more gradual phasing out of civil servants from the payroll than was
actually decided on by the Government. Those already on administrative
reserve status had their remuneration severed and the total number of civil
servants thus laid off now exceeds the initial target of 20,000. Also, the
Government had agreed with the Fund on a target rate of exchange at the end
of the period (December 31, 1989) covered by the new Program (second year
SAF) with quarterly benchmarks. Luring the first quarter of 1989 the rate
of devaluation of the Guinean franc has far exceeded the mid year target,
resulting in the largest ever quarterly coverage of gross Central Bank
sales by purchases. Finally, important actions have been taken by the
authorities to reduce foregone revenues and restructure the
telecommunications, electricity and customs agencies, for which Ba.k
assistance is expected.



34
particularly those of an institutional nature which involve more a process
that needs fostering than well defined discrete actions. With it has come
the clearer recognition that it is for the Government to adapt the pace of
the reform program to the country's rapidly changing environment which also
argues in favor of flexibility in the very design of the program. In this
connection, overall progress is more important than the specificity of
actions. SAL I had the merit of containing few specific conditions even
though the design of the program adopted by the Oovernment was
comprehensive and ambitious.  While the contribution of the SAL process has
been very positive, it is hoped that the regrettably long time it took to
release the second tranche, 17 months later than initially expected 13/,
just like the renewed momentum of the program, has contributed to the
maturing of the dialogue between the Bank and the Government over the three
years of the relaLionship, auguring well for its long term future.
13/ Supplementary Data Sheet, Annex III, President's Report (P - 4162-GUI)



