―기


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-11 GUI
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               Z,7              1986, between
k
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrowei ) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the Special Facility for Sub-
Saharan Africa (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility" consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Rec nstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated Decem
ber 19, 1985 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the resources of the
African Facility in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execu,,"ion and the Administrator has deter-
mined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an amount of twenty-two million nine hundred thou-
sand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,900,000) (the IDA Credit);
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government
of the Swiss Confederation (hereinafter called Switzerland) a
non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of ten million Swiss
francs (the Swiss Contribution) towards the financing of the
Program on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and Switzerland;
(E) by Procedural Arrangements dated October 18, 19841,
Switzerland and IDA have agreed to cooperate in the cofinancing


﻿- 2 -
of -pecific development projects or programs and the administra-
tion of Swiss contributions;
(F) the   Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the   Japan
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (hereinafter called OECF)
under the Special Joint Fina-icing Agreement for the Special
African Facility a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount of five
thousand million Japanese Yen (Y 5,000,000,000) to assist in the
financing of the Program on the terms and conditions set fo;th in
an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and OECF;
(G) the Borrower has also requested IDA as Administrator
of Special Joint Financing from Japan (hereinafter called the
Japanese Grant Administrator) to provide additional assistance
towards the financing of the Program under the Special Joint
be &    Financing A reement for the Special African Facility, and by an
Art     j      agreement       sdewith-bztw6z.p/the Borrower and the
Japanese Grant Administrator (the Japanese Grant Agreement),
the Japanese Grant Administrator is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an amount of six hundred million Japanese Yen
(Y 600,000,000) (the Japanese Grant);
(H) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW) a financial contri-
bution from the Federal Republic of Germany under the Special
Joint Financing Agreement for the Special African Facility
(hereinafter called the KfW Contribution) in an amount of twenty-
three million Deutsche Marks (DM 23,000,000) in support of the
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the KfW Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
KfW;
(I) the Borrower intends to request additional financing
from United States Agency for International Development to assist
in the financing of the Program; and
(J) by agreement dated September 21, 1985 (the CCCE Loan
Agreement), Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has
agreed to make a loan (the CCCE Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars to assist in financing the Program on the terms and
conditions set forth in the CCCE Loan Agreement;


﻿-3-
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit in
two tranches to the Borrower in support of the Program, upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the IDA, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b)
and 6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respec-
tively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit pursuant to the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to the African Facility Credit Agreement.";
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and


﻿-4-
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this pur-
pose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion of the program referred to in the Preamble to the
African Facility Credit Agreement, the performance by
the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the African Facility Credit Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the African
Facility Credit.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade (lassifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those
Articles.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,600,000).


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdra,vn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; or (ii) any
country designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions
set forth in paragraph 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall, to the extent possible, withdraw
the proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the Japanese Grant
and the Swiss Contribution before the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 1996,
and ending November 15, 2035. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 2005 shall be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each in-
stallment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower's Minister of Economy and
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts its Economic and Financial Coordi-
nating Committee with responsibility for the preparation of with-
drawal applications under the African Facility Credit and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Administrator in support of such applications; such with-
drawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than $600,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause its agencies and
departments to pay charges for water and electricity delivered to
them not later than 30 days after receipt of a bill for such
services.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1986, establish a plan of action for the restructuring of its
non-industrial parapublic sector, acceptable to the Administra-
tor.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall consult with the Adminis-
trator prior to: (a) making any changes in its contractual or
fiscal arrangements pertaining to the exploitation of bauxite;
and (b) creating a new state enterprise or participating in a new
mixed enterprise.
Section 3.05. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph  (a) of   this   Section  including  the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after


﻿- 8 -
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit there-
of as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Admini-
strator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,  invoices,   bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such ex-
penditures;
(iii) enable   the  Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall promptly upon receipt of
appropriate documentation on imports from importers, cause its
Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee to determine whe-
ther such imports are eligible for financing under the terms of
the African Facility Credit.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. The Bo-rower shall make such other arrange-
ments, acceptable to the Administrator, so as to assure that
public and private importers alike shall have adequate assistance
in preparing tender documents in respect of the acquisition of
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) Decree No. 119 of the Borrower, establishing the
Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
threaten, in the opinion of the Administrator, the success of the
Program; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds   of  any   financial  contribution,
grant, loan or credit made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Program shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any   such  financial  contribution, loan   or
credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available


﻿- 10 -
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to t.e effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and the Swiss Contribution Agreement
(other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been ful-
filled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the African Facility Credit Agreement shall
terminate, or on the date ten years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box 579
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
2199 MIFI
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By 1E, T1     e   2EbAlD6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Lj-i2 1)P  7HALUiTZ,
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1. Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco
refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 14 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
-          971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 6, 1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $4,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures in excess of aggregate amounts equivalent
to $4,500,000 for petroleum products and for foodstuffs, respec-
tively.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of $12,500,000, unless the Adminis-
trator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as de-
scribed in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
have been taken.


﻿15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower or its
state enterprises and which are estimated to cost the equivalent
of $400,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms:
(i) a   notice  in   the  United  Nations  publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further   alternative, bidding   documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single cur-
rency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."


﻿- 16 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods to be procured by private or mixed enti-
ties and contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $400,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of price
quotations from at least three reliable suppliers.
3.   Goods procured pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Sched-
ule are subject to the eligibility requirements set forth in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. Such eligibility requirements
shall be stated in the tender or prequalification documents for
the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Sched-
ule.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to th submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as
the Administrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or 5 of
this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Administrator as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4
of Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower shall have:
(a) promulgated a Petroleum Code, a new Investment Code and
Regulations, and a new Commercial Code which shall be acceptable
to the Administrator;
(b) reduced the number of its civil servants by about
10,000 below the number of civil servants in active service on
January 1, 1986;
(c) commenced liquidation of banks controlled by the Bor-
rower in accordance with a program acceptable to the Adminis-
trator;
(d) adjusted: (i) the wholesale price of imported rice;
(ii) the retail price of petroleum products; and (iii) the
transfer prices payable by the State Enterprise PROSECO for
coffee and palm kernels, on the basis of the Borrower's review of
the prices of these commodities during       the second calendar
quarter of 1986, in a manner acceptable to the Administrator;
(e) reviewed the Borrower's rice stocking and wholesale
distribution arrangements, together with the Administrator; and
(f) entered into a dialogue with its principal bilateral
external creditors to discuss the repayment of its debts to such
creditors.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Acco--.
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Pfrican Facility Credit in accordance with the
provisions of Schk iule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to four million dollars to be withdrawn from the
African Facility Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 19 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  African
Facility Credit minus the amount of any outstand-
ing agreement to reimburse made by the Adminis-
trator and of any special commitment entered into
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Pro-
gram, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation,
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 20 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administratu: such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  ct '     day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


