                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 35859-GZ

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-22443)

                                                  ON A

                                         TRUST FUND CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                                FOR THE

            SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2006




Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2006)

                           Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
                                 NIS 1.0 = US$ 0.22
                                US$ 1.0 = NIS 4.52

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to    December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Cooperation)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DFID     UK Department for International Development
EIB      European Investment Bank
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
JSC      Joint Service Council
MC       Performance-Based Management Contract
MENA     Middle East and North Africa Region
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NIF      Not IDA-Financed
NPV      Net Present Value
PA       Palestinian Authority
PLO      Palestine Liberation Organization
PMU      Project Management Unit
PWA      Palestinian Water Authority
SAWSIP   Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
TF       Trust Fund Number
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WSSA     Water Supply and Sewerage Authority




                         Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                      Country Director:       A. David Craig
                       Sector Manager:        Jonathan Walters
                    Task Team Leader:         Sana Agha Al Nimer

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
    SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8: Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             31
Map IBRD No.33512

Project ID: P051564                                                  Project Name: SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND
                                                                     SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer                                TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-22443
                            SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (48%); Sewerage (47%); Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/09/2006                                     Effective: 08/23/1999                08/23/1999
     Appraisal: 04/29/1999                                         MTR: 08/31/2001                  08/31/2001
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/PALESTINIAN WATER
                                           AUTHORITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christian Poortman                             Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:                 Jonathan Walters                               Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Sana Agha Al Nimer                             Jamal Saghir
ICR Primary Author:             Lizmara Kirchner; Kingsley
                                Robotham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project Objectives

The stated development objectives of the Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
(SAWSIP) were twofold:

 i. To improve the sufficiency of water and wastewater services in the Southern Area of the West Bank
    and the efficiency of water and wastewater services supply to customers in terms of quality, quantity
    and management by building on existing authorities-- the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
    (WSSA - the utility in charge of water and wastewater service provision for most of the Bethlehem
    Governorate) and the municipal and village water departments within Bethlehem Governorate and
    Hebron Governorate; and

ii. To prepare for and implement an appropriate institutional framework for water and wastewater service
    provision including the implementation of a performance-based management contract and strengthening
    regulatory and institutional capacity in the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA).

Assessment of Original Objectives and Design

The project objectives and design need to be assessed in the context of the exceptional economic, political
and institutional conditions prevailing in the West Bank and Gaza and the overall program the project was
a part of. The water sector in the West Bank suffered from historical under investment mainly as a result
of inadequate tariffs and high levels of water losses (estimated at 50% in the Project Appraisal Document).
Consequently, about one third of the population in the West Bank lacked piped water, and those with
access had intermittent levels of service. In addition, per capita availability of conventional water resources
was low (103 cubic meters per capita per year, compared to a regional average of 1,250 in the region) with
natural water resources under threat from contamination by chlorides, nitrates and other chemicals from
irrigation drainage as well as municipal and industrial effluents. Management of the sector was fragmented
among municipal departments, village councils, and WSSA, which is considered incompatible with efficient
service delivery and integrated management of the limited groundwater resources.

Since July 1996, the Bank-supported Water and Sanitation Services Project (TF-26056) successfully began
to address the problem of utility formation in Gaza and served as a model for the preparation of this
project. SAWSIP aimed to continue to deepen the reform process in the West Bank while substantially
improving the supply of water and sanitation services by addressing: (i) the low levels of service efficiency
through increased private sector participation, (ii) high water losses through the implementation of a service
improvement program, (iii) lack of piped water supply to rural communities through investment in network
expansion and in augmenting bulk water supply, and (iv) improving the sector policy framework through
reforms in the tariff levels, and support to the consolidation of management and distribution of services to
regional water and wastewater utilities.

The project was developed in close consultation with and participation of PWA, based on the successful
and strongly PWA-supported Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza (TF-26056) and on PWA's
National Water Plan Water (which was under development during project preparation and was finalized in
December 2000). It targeted the Bethlehem and Hebron governorates which account for about 30% of the
population of the West Bank (about 170,000 people in Bethlehem and 510,000 people in Hebron), and was
developed in close consultation with the participating municipalities, all of whom signed a memorandum of
understanding on project design and implementation arrangements.




                                                      - 2 -

The project objectives were responsive to the needs and priorities of PWA, and supportive of its reform and
development strategy. The strategy, as formally set out in the National Water Plan of 2000, had three
fundamentals aspects: (a) the consolidation of PWA as the regulator for the sector; (b) the development of
its own bulk water supply; and (c) the consolidation of the inefficient and fragmented individual municipal
water departments into a system of four Regional Utilities--one in Gaza and three in the West Bank. The
objectives were also relevant to two themes of the Bank's Assistance Strategy, World Bank Group Strategy
for West Bank and Gaza, dated April 28, 1998, namely: (a) developing an environment conducive to
private sector activity; and (b) setting the stage for the emergence of self-governing institutions on a
sustainable basis.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project originally comprised the following main components:

 i.  Management Contract (US$10 million, 16 percent of total project cost; IDA share: US$10 million):
    This component aimed at financing the Management Contract (awarded through an International
    Competitive Bidding process) to improve the quality and quantity of water supplied, as well as the
    management of water and wastewater systems in Hebron and Bethlehem. The contract comprised two
    fees: (i) a fixed fee for key staff of the operator to supply services and management; and (ii) a
    performance incentive fees based upon the attainment of specific performance targets built into the
    management contract. In Bethlehem, where the WSSA is established, the operator would assume full
    responsibility for the management, operations and maintenance of water and wastewater services; while
    in Hebron the operator would provide service support and advice with respect to the management,
    operations and maintenance of water and wastewater services to the municipalities.

ii.  Operating Investment Fund (US$10 million, 16 percent of total project cost; IDA share: US$10
    million): This component aimed at providing the operator and PWA with immediate funds for the
    purchase of materials supplies and equipment needed to rehabilitate water and wastewater
    infrastructure and to enhance the efficient operations, maintenance and administration of water and
    wastewater systems in Bethlehem and Hebron. This operating investment fund was under the control
    of the operator, subject to the approval of an annual procurement plan, as a way to provide the
    operator with funds to direct the achievement of the performance standards.

iii. Capital Investments (US$39.3 million, 63 percent of total project cost; IDA share: US$0 million):
    This component aimed at financing 5 pre-identified packages that were considered priority investments
    under the recently completed master plan for the area, and was to be financed by the European
    Investment Bank (EIB). These packages included the design, implementation and supervision of
    investments in system rehabilitation and improvements such as source development, bulk transmission
    mains, distribution systems restructuring/rehabilitation; and investments in rural water supply.

iv.  Technical Assistance (US$3.6 million, 6 percent of total project cost; IDA share: US$1 million):
    This component aimed at supporting the development of institutional capacity within PWA by carrying
    out studies on the development of a regulatory framework; strengthening the Project Management Unit
    (PMU) to support the project implementation; as well as finance (a) an independent auditor to evaluate
    the operator's technical and financial performance and recommend performance incentive payments; (b)
    consultants to assist in the establishment of a proper financial management, accounting and reporting
    systems for the PMU, and (c) the project's financial audits. This component was partially financed by
    the EIB and PWA was to seek grant funding for the components of the technical assistance program



                                                    - 3 -

    not funded by IDA or EIB.

The components were well chosen and supportive of the objectives. The centerpiece was the internationally
procured management contract, designated to pilot the transformation of disparate municipal water
departments into a regional utility for the Southern West Bank. The capital investments were intended to
significantly increase the supply of water to the region--and EIB had already signed an agreement with the
Palestinian Authority for the financing of these investments. The technical assistance supported PWA
supervisory and institutional reform responsibilities. The total project cost was US$62.9 million, of which
the World Bank's share was US$21 million, or about 33% of the total. EIB was responsible for financing
about 57% of the project costs, while about 10% was to be financed through local contribution.

3.4 Revised Components:
In August 2000, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement was amended to include the financing of an extension to
the performance-based management contract for the services improvement program for water and
wastewater systems in the Gaza strip, which until then had been financed separately by the Water and
Sanitation Services Project (TF-26056). This change was needed to support the successful achievements
by the international operator in improving water and sanitation services in the Gaza strip during the
transition period until the follow-on operation to the Water and Sanitation Services Project was approved.
This follow-on operation would allow for the provision of water services to be carried out through an
operating contract for the management of the recently created Coastal Municipality Water Utility, in which
the private operator would have a greater degree of flexibility and autonomy in its daily operations.

The beginning of the second Palestinian Intifada in late September 2000--just one year after
effectiveness--ushered in a period of deep crisis in the West Bank and Gaza as a whole. In March 2002,
the Bethlehem and Hebron municipalities (the locus of the project) were occupied by Israeli troops. In
order to respond to these developments, the World Bank formally restructured the entire portfolio to focus
on supporting emergency recovery activities in August 2002. Specifically for SAWSIP, it meant an
increased focus in repairing the damaged infrastructure deemed critical for the proper functioning of the
water and sewage networks, rather than upgrading and expanding existing infrastructure. In addition, the
EIB funds were cancelled due to disagreements between the PA and EIB. With the benefit of hindsight, the
project team should have taken advantage of this restructuring to also formally revise the project objectives
to better reflect the changing situation on the ground.


              Original Project Components                            Revised Project Components

 1.  Management Contract in the Bethlehem and             1. Management Contract for the Bethlehem and
     Hebron Governorates, including fixed and                Hebron Governorates (terminated effective
     performance-based fees                                  December 2002), as well as Gaza, including
                                                             (terminated effective September 2003) fixed and
                                                             performance-based fees.

 2. Operating Investment Fund ­ to finance essential      2. Operating Investment Fund ­ to finance essential
     operations and maintenance expenditures not             operations and maintenance expenditures in the
     covered by the revenues collected which are             Southern Area of the West Bank and in Gaza that
     required to achieve the yearly performance targets      are not covered by revenues collected, as well as
     in the management contract                              emergency needs.

 3. Capital Investments ­ to finance design,              3. Component was to be financed in parallel by the

     implementation and supervision of investments in        cancelled EIB loan. Activities planned under this
                                                             component were re-packaged under the Emergency



                                                      - 4 -

      system rehabilitation and improvements, such as
      source development, bulk transmission mains,              Investment Program to be financed by the World

      distribution systems restructuring/ rehabilitation;       Bank (through the Emergency Water Project), AFD

      and investments in rural water supply.                    and USAID.


  4. Technical Assistance ­ supports developing              4. Technical Assistance ­ to support the operation of

      institutional capacity within PWA; establishment          the Project Management Units in the West Bank

      of a Project Management Unit (PMU); training and          and Gaza, and assistance with project

      measures to monitor and audit the Operator's              implementation and monitoring activities, as well

      performance.                                              as preparatory work for the re-launch of the tender
                                                                process for a new Management Contract to be
                                                                established in Gaza.



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was evaluated by the Quality Assurance Group and was assigned an overall assessment of
quality at entry rating of satisfactory, with a highly satisfactory rating for its concept, design and approach.
This ICR review agrees with the rating of the quality at entry assessment, mainly on the basis of the
following aspects:

 i.   Consistency with Country Strategy: The project, together with the Water and Sanitation Services
    Project (TF-26056) and the Electricity Sector Investment and Management Project (TF-26092), was
    one of the key pillars of the country assistance strategy. These projects were intended to lead the way in
    infrastructure sector reform in West Bank and Gaza, and in introducing more efficient private sector
    approaches in the management of infrastructure services.

ii.  Project Design: With the exception of the changes made to the management contract to allow for the
    differing political and institutional environment noted above, the design was very similar the Water and
    Sanitation Services Project in Gaza (TF-26056 - later designated as an example of best practice in the
    Bank).

iii. Implementation Readiness: At Appraisal, the management contract was already out to bid, and the
    contract was initialed with the successful bidder prior to Board submission in May 1999. Further, the
    project became effective in August 1999 and the operator began work one month later.

Even though the project risks were well defined, and in general, appropriately rated given the overall
political context and expectations at the time, with the benefit of hindsight,          the political risks, which
proved to be near disabling, should have been identified as an 'over-arching' risk that could catalyze the
materialization of most of the other identified risks and the mitigating measures geared towards that
context, which is effectively what happened during implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Context

The stated objectives turned out to be difficult to achieve, mainly due to the deteriorating political climate
and intensification of hostilities. The beginning of the Palestinian Intifada in late September 2000 ushered
in a period of crisis, marked by considerable loss of life on both sides; sharp curtailment on the movement
of people and goods; major damage to key physical, social and economic infrastructure and services; sharp
increases in unemployment and poverty; and considerable dislocation of Palestinian economic and social



                                                         - 5 -

life and institutions at all levels.

This dramatic change in operating environment, the financing of the performance-based management
contract in the Gaza strip, and the termination of the performance-based management contract in the West
Bank by mutual consent in December 2002 resulted in changes to the project's scope and focus. However,
the project objectives were not formally revised to reflect this change (the project supervision team
considered a formal restructuring of the project on several occasions; however, the team was advised
against it internally - more details in section 7.2). As such, this evaluation is based on achievements
against the project's original development objectives, while also presenting the project's achievements
related to the new priorities established after the departure of the operator in December 2002.

Outcome/achievement of objective

In terms of improving sufficiency and efficiency of water and wastewater services in the southern area of
the West Bank, the project's achievements are considered moderately unsatisfactory. This is mainly due to
the fact that the EIB financing for the capital investment activities (representing about 63% of the original
project costs) was cancelled as a result of disagreements between the PA and EIB. Even though these
activities were re-packaged under a different program, progress on implementation of these activities has
been slow mainly due to the difficult operating environment. Nevertheless, the project contributed to some
positive outcomes in the sector.      By 2004, when most of the project implementation activities were
completed, unaccounted-for water was reduced by 24% in Hebron and 10% in Bethlehem (considering the
overall 50% figure on the project appraisal document as a baseline), and WSSA's operating ratio was 1.27
that year, (WSSA was able to cover its operating expenses). Unregistered connections were eliminated in
Hebron and reduced by 56% in Bethlehem. The rehabilitation and improvements carried out enabled the
maintaining of levels of provision of water and wastewater services, which some could consider an
improvement, since had the project not financed the many additional rehabilitation works due to
conflict-damaged infrastructure, there would be a significant deterioration in the provision of these services
during the project implementation period. However, even though the general perception is that service
delivery has somewhat improved, there is virtually no recent data available on the key performance
indicators to substantiate this claim.

As for the preparation and implementation of an appropriate institutional framework for water and
wastewater service provision and the building of institutional capacity, the project's achievements are
deemed moderately satisfactory. With respect to the building of regulatory and institutional capacity at the
national level, the planned tariff studies were undertaken but implementation was postponed because of the
dire economic situation at the local level. The proposed new Water Law confirming the regulatory role of
PWA and enabling the modernization of the sector, as envisaged in the National Water Plan, was also
enacted largely as planned. In terms of the local institutional framework in the Southern West Bank, even
though the current framework is not what was originally envisaged by the project, it is considered
appropriate given the prevailing circumstances, and there is an appropriate long-term plan on how this
framework will evolve into the ultimate goal of having water and wastewater service provision consolidated
under one utility in the Southern West Bank.

The performance of the WSSA in Bethlehem has moderately improved with the company being
restructured and appropriate systems and operating procedures adopted. Its service area was not expanded;
however, services in these areas have been consolidated under two Joint Service Councils (JSCs), and there
is an overall understanding that these JSCs will become part of a future Southern Water and Wastewater
Utility. In Hebron, the structure of water and wastewater service provision has a different format with
PWA's PMU providing support to local government authorities in identifying and prioritizing investment


                                                      - 6 -

needs, and ensuring local participation in providing the manpower needed for the undertaking of these
investments. This approach has been successful and has ensured participation of local authorities in the
decision-making process, and better sense of ownership. As a next step in Hebron, JSCs will be also be
formed with the intent of merging them into a future Southern Water and Wastewater Utility.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Management Contract (actual cost US$8.54 million; IDA share: US$7.17 million): The operator started
work under the management contract in the West Bank on September 1, 1999. Performance in the first
year was assessed in January 2001 and the operator's incentive payment was calculated to be 66% of the
maximum allowed annual incentive payment. During the second year of the contract (September 1, 2000 -
August 31, 2001) working conditions became very difficult due to the beginning of the Palestinian Intifada.
The parties agreed to force majeure from October 1, 2000 until December 31, 2000, and to a transition
period until August 31, 2001. During these periods the operator continued the work to the extent possible
and received a fixed compensation with no incentive-based payment. From September 1, 2001 the work
was to be honored according to the original contract; however, the situation worsened in early 2002 and the
operator declared force majeure in April 2002.

In June 2002, an agreement was reached to a six-month transition period between the operator and PWA,
after which the project management unit (PMU) would take over the full management of water and
wastewater services (funded under the technical assistance component of this project), while the political
and security uncertainties were expected to persist. This would allow PWA to re-evaluate its priorities and
those of the beneficiaries in the context of the security situation prevailing at the time. An action plan
detailing the priorities to be pursued by the PMU was agreed upon and it consisted of: (a) accelerating
rehabilitation of damaged networks, (b) maintaining and further developing to the extent possible the
management of the WSSA in Bethlehem and the technical assistance provided to the municipalities in
Hebron in the management of water and wastewater services, and (c) re-assessing the progress made
towards establishing a water utility for the southern area of the West Bank in light of the difficult operating
environment and proceeding with the formation of local Joint Service Councils (JSCs) as a first step
towards the formation of a regional southern utility.

Given the difficult operating circumstances, the operator was not able to achieve many of the planned
targets under the management contract. The operator fell short in meeting the performance targets related
to the rehabilitation of the network in Bethlehem and to a lesser extent in Hebron, and on the
implementation of programs related to the improvement of local institutional capacity. In addition, even
though the operating margin indicator was met in first year, no data is available to measure the progress of
this specific indicator since then. A financial and technical audit of the operator's accomplishment against
the second year targets to the management contract was carried out, in which the operator's incentive
payment was determined to be 35% of the maximum allowed incentive payment. According to the audit,
the following were some of the performance targets the operator was able to meet by December 2002: (a)
about 2,769 unregistered connections were identified and registered (69% of the estimate baseline value for
unregistered connections), (b) unaccounted-for water was reduced by 15% in Bethlehem and by 19% in
Hebron, (c) electricity costs were reduced by 19%, (d) 16 kilometers of pipes were replaced/installed in
Hebron, and (d) 93% and 89% of the water samples met water quality performance standards in Bethlehem
and Hebron respectively.

After the management contract ended in December 2002 and given the difficult operating environment, the
PMU focused on network rehabilitation needs and in maintaining to the extent possible the targets achieved
by the operator. To this end, unregistered connections were eliminated in Hebron and reduced by 56% in



                                                     - 7 -

Bethlehem and unaccounted-for water was further reduced in Hebron by an additional 5%. However, in
Bethlehem unaccounted-for water increased by 5% after the operator's departure, resulting on a net
reduction of 10% by the end of 2004. Annex 1 has a comprehensive account of the indicators with target
and actual values.

With the cancellation of the management contract in the West Bank, the Palestinian Water Authority
requested that the remaining available funds in this component be used to finance the extension of the
management contract for the management and operation of water and wastewater services in the Gaza strip
from August 2000 until September 2003. This management contract was initially funded under the Water
and Sanitation Services Project (TF-26056) and its implementation was successful with almost all of the
performance targets agreed upon in the management contract achieved. During the extension period
financed by this project, the operator continued to satisfactorily operate and manage water and wastewater
services in the Gaza strip.

It is important to note that the financing of this extension was needed due to unforeseen delays encountered
in the preparation of the documentation to carry out the bidding process for the next stage of private sector
involvement in Gaza. The financing was meant to be a short-term interim measure until the selection
process of a lease contractor was complete; this new contract would be financed by the World Bank under
a new project. A request for qualifications was issued in December 2000; however, given the deteriorating
operating circumstances due to the conflict, the bidding process was held back, and unfortunately the
Palestinian Authority did not have the funding from its own resources to continue paying for the fees of the
management contract in Gaza, which at that stage had to be extended.

In early 2003, PWA came under increasing pressure for reasons of transparency and accountability to
select a new operator, instead of continuing to extend the current management contract. A request for
proposals was issued, but ultimately none of the pre-qualified bidders submitted a proposal. As such, the
management contract expired in September 2003 and interim arrangements were put in place, where the
PWA retained the services of the local staff that worked for the operator as consultants to continue to
oversee the management and operation of water and wastewater services. The staff were financed under
this project's technical assistance component.

Operating Investment Fund (actual cost US$12.34 million; IDA share: US$10.55 million): This fund
played a crucial role for the overall improvement of the water and wastewater network infrastructure, as
well as in responding to the emergency rehabilitation needs prompted by the conflict. The operator for the
management contract in the West Bank used the funds to repair and replace about 1,230 water meters,
1,377 service connections, 28.7 kilometers of piping in Bethlehem and Hebron as well as other network
operational improvements based on a mutually agreed procurement plan with PWA. After the management
contract was cancelled, the PMU used the available funds to maintain and improve the network
performance. It provided support to the WSSA in Bethlehem and established a modus operandi in Hebron
in which projects funds were used to purchase the goods required for rehabilitation, and project-area
beneficiaries were relied upon for either financing the works required or physically contributing towards
implementation under the supervision of the PMU. As such, by 2004 (when most of the project activities
were complete) an additional 10,470 water meters were repaired and replaced, 9,323 service connections
and 53.6 km of piping were replaced in Bethlehem and Hebron under the overall supervision of the PMU.

At the request of the PWA, a portion of this fund was re-allocated to be used by the management contractor
and later by the PMU in charge of managing and operating water and wastewater services in the Gaza strip
in order to maintain the level of services and rehabilitate the network as needed, especially given the
frequent Israeli incursions into several areas of the strip. About 2,500 leak repairs were made, and the


                                                       - 8 -

meter installation program was continued with about 7,366 domestic and 128 public meters rehabilitated
and/or installed, 38 bulk meters were rehabilitated, and about 40 kilometers of pipes were replaced in
municipalities that had reported lower system efficiencies. These measures contributed to maintaining the
levels of system efficiency at about 64%. In addition, water quality performance standards were kept, with
about 100% disinfection efficiency. The reallocation of funds to be used to implement rehabilitation
activities in Gaza resulted in the scaling back of activities planned to be financed in the West Bank.

Capital Investments: This component was to be financed by the EIB; however, the EIB funds were
cancelled as a result of disagreements between the PA and EIB. Therefore, the PWA had to re-evaluate its
investment priorities and find alternative sources of funding for implementing capital investment works.
The five packages identified for financing under this component were re-packaged under a separate
program with an estimate cost of US$48.9 million. Financing for this program was obtained from the
World Bank (The Emergency Water Project - TF-52627 - US$12.5 million), the Agence Française de
Développement (AFD - US$6.5 million) and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID - US$55 million), as described in the Technical Annex of the Emergency Water Project
(TF-52627). The delays incurred due to financing issues had a negative impact on the achievement of
SAWSIP's original targets, especially the ones related to constancy of supply.

The implementation progress of the Emergency Water Project (TF52627) is considered satisfactory, the
pipeline linking the Halhoul and Nuba reservoirs has been completed, and most of the major contracts have
been awarded, are under construction, and all project activities are expected to be completed by mid-2007.
As for the AFD and USAID financed portions of the program, progress is reported to be unsatisfactory,
given the slow progress on the implementation of most of the activities mainly due to the difficult operating
environment and the uncertainty over the availability of USAID funds in the current political context. In
spite of the delays, the AFD-financed works are expected to be completed in early 2008, however, it is
unclear whether the activities planned to be financed by USAID will proceed as planned given the current
political environment.

Technical Assistance (actual cost US$5.34 million;            IDA share: US$2.71 million):       The technical
assistance component funded the two audits carried out on the performance of the operator in achieving the
targets stipulated in the management contract. In addition, it financed the costs of the West Bank PMU,
and since August 2000, the costs of the Gaza PMU as well. Since the termination of the management
contract in December 2002, technical assistance to the PMU in the West Bank was stepped up in order to
strengthen the team and ensure it was appropriately staffed to undertake its new responsibilities. The same
happened with the Gaza PMU after September 2003, when the management contract expired.

Some of the other technical assistance activities supported by the project included the plan to expand the
service area for the WSSA to include additional areas in the Bethlehem Governorate. In this respect, the
PMU worked in the villages of Bethlehem supporting the formation of two JSCs, namely the Eastern JSC
and the Western JSC responsible for management and operation of water and wastewater services in their
respective areas. As a next step, the PMU and PWA plan to support the formation of a Southern JSC in
which the Eastern and Western JSCs would be merged, and an understanding has been reached that in the
medium-term this joint service council will become part of a Southern Regional Utility.

At the WSSA, the PMU has worked with the operator and after the termination of the management contract
to restructure the company, namely the following has been achieved: (a) an organizational structure has
been defined with detailed job descriptions for senior positions, (b) the scope of work of each department
was defined and the current staff was evaluated and mapped to the new organization structure according to
their qualifications, (c) standard operating procedures were set for technical operations, (d) a valuation of


                                                      - 9 -

WSSA's assets was completed, (e) a new billing and collection, accounting, and payroll systems were set
up and are working satisfactorily--the PMU continues to provide technical assistance and training on these
systems as needed, and (f) financial and procurement procedures were defined and adopted by WSSA.

In Hebron, where the water and wastewater services are management by the water departments within the
local governments/municipalities, the technical assistance provided by the PMU has taken a slightly
different format. During project preparation and at early stages of project implementation, the PWA held
meetings with local government officials, during which it was understood and agreed that the operator
would set up technical service centers using the technical staff from the water departments with the ultimate
objective of integrating these centers in the future into one regional utility. However, with the departure of
the operator and the increasingly difficult operating environment, a slightly different structure was agreed
upon, in which a PMU coordinator is designated to work with each technical center and local government
authorities to identify the priority needs in terms of equipment and materials. Once these needs are
identified, the PMU coordinator submits a request for evaluation by the PMU management, and if the
request is approved the material and equipment required for project implementation are provided to the
communities, who are required to provide the manpower for the installation, which is carried out under the
supervision of PMU engineers. This arrangement has proven to be successful in Hebron, empowering the
communities to participate in the decision-making process and increasing their sense of ownership.

An assessment on the institutional and financial feasibility of the formation of a set of JSCs in Hebron for
water and wastewater was undertaken and there is broad agreement that the formation of JSCs is a positive
next step in terms of improving the provision of water and wastewater services. USAID was financing a
Village Water and Sanitation Program that would facilitate the formation of these JSCs, with the intent that
in the medium- to long-term these JSCs could be merged into a utility, provided circumstances allow for it.
As as mentioned above, the materialization of USAID funds is not certain given the current political
context.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 11 percent and the Net Present Value
(NPV) was at NIS 1.41 million, which is less than what was estimated at appraisal. As water tariffs were
taken as proxy for economic benefits, these results are more a reflection of the level of tariffs than
indicative of the worth of the project per se. Consumers' willingness to pay would have been a better
measure, but data are unfortunately not available. Annex 3 has the detailed economic analysis calculations.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not assessed.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was modest. Improvements have been made in the operation
of the WSSA where the operator and the PMU have had a positive impact in terms of defining the
organization's structure, setting up procedures and improving internal systems (i.e., billing and collection,
accounting, etc.). However, WSSA still has much more to do in terms of improving the company's
performance as an efficient provider of water and wastewater services. In addition, progress was made in
terms of planning and gradually implementing an institutional restructuring plan (i.e., formation of village
and joint service councils, as well as establishing a system for working with local authorities) that will
ultimately enable the formation of a singe utility for provision of water and wastewater services in the
southern West Bank.




                                                      - 10 -

In Gaza, the project enabled the retaining of local technical staff that used to work for the operator under
the first management contract, allowing for a continuity in service provision and helped in the transition to
the new operator, who was awarded a contract for management of water and wastewater services in early
2005. This new operator will be responsible for the formation of the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility,
responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services for the entire Gaza Strip.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Palestinian economic recovery that began in 1998 came to an abrupt halt with the start of the second
Intifada in September 2000, and the subsequent imposition of closures, curfews and tight movement
restrictions on the Palestinian population. The areas targeted under the project (i.e., Bethlehem and
Hebron) were occupied by Israeli troops, which made for a very difficult and stressful operating
environment and had a significant negative impact on the ability to implement the project as originally
planned.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The cancellation of EIB funds was outside the control of the project and negatively affected the
implementation of the capital investment component. Details on the events leading to this cancellation are
not entirely clear; however, once there was mutual agreement to cancel the funding for the project, the
Ministry of Finance should have perhaps supported PWA more actively in quickly securing the financing
needed for the timely implementation of the activities planned under the capital investment component.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Between effectiveness in August 1999 and December 2002, the PMU provided supervisory control over the
management contract operator, who was largely responsible for implementation, and its performance is
considered satisfactory - although the March 2001 audit stressed the need for improved communications
between the PMU and the operator.

After the termination of the management contract in 2002, the increasing amount of pressure the PMU was
under in terms of taking over the functions performed by the operator resulted in the lack of adequate
monitoring and reporting systems, which compromised the quality of the data available for project
monitoring and reporting, including this review. Given the deteriorating environment, the PMU showed a
unique ability to adapt to current circumstances, and to provide adequate technical assistance, and to the
extent possible, financial support to the Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates in the management and
operation of their water and wastewater systems.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As detailed in Annex 2, the expenditure on Bank-supported components was about US$20.43 million or 97
percent of the appraisal estimate. The cancellation of the management contract in the West Bank freed up
funds to finance support to the adequate provision of water and wastewater services in Gaza. As such, the
financing for West Bank-related activities was reduced by about 43 percent.              The overall project
expenditure stands at about US$34.8 million, which represents about 55 percent of the appraisal estimate.
This difference is mainly related to the cancellation of EIB financing, as explained in section 5.2 above.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:




                                                     - 11 -

Project sustainability is considered unlikely. Some positive achievements have been made in terms of
improving the provision of water and wastewater services to the population in Bethlehem, Hebron and
Gaza, and steps have been taken towards implementing an appropriate institutional framework for the
reliable provision of water and wastewater services. However, PWA remains dependent on the assistance
of donors for financing its activities, including system operation and maintenance, mainly due to the fact
that renewed hostilities have had a significant negative impact in the Palestinian economy, with incomes
declining by about one third and nearly a quarter of its work force unemployed. As such, this prevailing
volatile context has prevented the PWA from implementing much needed tariff increases, and represents an
impediment to increasing revenue collection. In addition, the political outlook remains highly uncertain, the
election of Hamas and subsequent dwindling of donor support to a Hamas-led PA have increased the
likelihood that the achievements under the project will not be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
PWA continues to put forth its best efforts in terms of applying donor funding towards implementing
activities that will either maintain or improve the level of supply of water and wastewater services in the
West Bank and in Gaza; however, given the volatile situation on the ground, it is unlikely that a transition
to regular operations can be made in the near future.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation is considered satisfactory. The project was well prepared
technically, and its approach was modeled after the successful experience with a performance-based
management contract in Gaza. In addition, the selection of the management contract operator was carried
out up front and in time for early project start. Project preparation was based on consultations with key
institutional stakeholders, which helped achieve some degree of institutional consensus in the employment
of a private operator to manage the provision of water and wastewater services.

With the benefit of hindsight, the project team should perhaps have devoted some more time to
consultations, and tried to better adapt some of the performance targets to the specific institutional context
in the West Bank; since during implementation of the management contract there were some issues in terms
of (i) misunderstanding of duties and expectations of the management contractor vis a vis some of the
stronger municipalities, and (ii) the lack of clear definition of the institutional capacity building component,
and appropriate incentives for the operator to carry out these activities in the earlier part of the contract.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is considered satisfactory. The Bank supervision team faced
many challenges, including difficulties in carrying out supervision missions on a regular basis after the
beginning of the second Intifada in September 2000. In spite of these constraints, the Bank kept in close
contact with and responded effectively to the changing needs on the ground, including the termination of the
management contract in December 2002, the development of an Action Plan to ensure the level of service
provision would not be negatively affected by the contract's termination, and the need to support the then
ongoing Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza (TF-26056).

In addition, the Bank team provided effective and timely support to PWA in re-evaluating and re-packaging
of its investment priorities, given the cancellation of EIB financing for the capital investment components
planned under the project, as well as in mobilizing Bank resources (Emergency Water Project - TF-52627)
and in enlisting the support from other donors in the financing of these new priorities.




                                                     - 12 -

Nevertheless, there were some shortcomings, particularly related to the establishment of sufficiently clear
monitoring and reporting framework and mechanisms after the departure of the operator in December
2002. In addition, with the benefit of hindsight, the team should have formally restructured the project
objectives and indicators to reflect the changes in focus and scope during implementation as a result of the
difficult operating environment.      Instead of formally restructuring the project, restructuring it on an
'informal' basis through amendments to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement was recommended internally as a
more effective way to adapt the project to the changing situation on the ground.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on sections 7.1 and 7.2, overall Bank performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As the main representatives of the Borrower, the PWA and the Ministry of Finance were very actively
involved in project definition and preparation. They facilitated the consultations with key institutional
stakeholders and cooperated effectively with the Bank, taking the appropriate steps to ensure effective
project selection, design and contract documentation. Further, they ensured the timely effectiveness of the
project and strengthened PMU's accounting and financial management capabilities in preparation for
implementation. As such, the Borrower's performance during preparation is considered satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is considered satisfactory, in the context of the difficult operating
environment. In general, the PA (again represented by the Ministry of Finance and the PWA) were
supportive and met most of their project obligations effectively and on time. In addition, the Ministry of
Finance effectively handled a nagging value-added tax refund issue--before it had a negative impact on the
project. Further, the PWA took the steps necessary to carry out the required tariff studies and to secure the
passage of a new Water Law. The latter mandated the establishment of a new institutional framework,
under which a National Water Council was established as the main policy-making body for the sector; the
PWA's role as a sector regulator was ratified; and the proposed strategy of establishing a Bulk Water
Authority and Regional Utilities was confirmed. As mentioned above, the much needed tariff increases
were not implemented, mainly due their infeasibility given the deterioration of the Palestinian economy as a
result of the volatile political context.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the West Bank PMU in implementing the project under the very trying conditions is
considered satisfactory. The PMU in the West Bank was able to effectively shift from the role of
monitoring and facilitating the work of the operator under the management contract framework, to taking
over the operator's duties and completing the project, while at the same time managing the overall
emergency response to the deteriorating circumstances in the West Bank. As mentioned above, one of the
shortcomings was the lack of an appropriate framework for monitoring and reporting overall progress
towards the achievement of indicators after the departure of the operator, which could be attributed to
delays in hiring additional staff to cope with the increased workload, in spite of insistence from the Bank
team to expedite recruitment. The PMU in Gaza, was able to effectively implement the activities financed
under the project and to continue systematically monitoring the indicators established under the Water and
Sanitation Services Project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on sections 7.4, 7.5 and 7.6 overall Borrower performance is considered moderately satisfactory.




                                                    - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

l When planning a private transaction in a risky country, establishing at the onset an adequate fall-back
    option might prove critical to ensure overall continuity in approach. With the benefit of hindsight,
    given the inherent difficult operating environment in West Bank and Gaza it may have been useful to
    explore in advance some alternative arrangements to improve the sector's operational and managerial
    efficiencies even in the absence of a management contract.

l The project design should be tailored to the specific local prevailing circumstances. In the West Bank,
    given the number of players involved (i.e., municipalities, WSSA, villages, etc.), involvement of local
    partners public or private should have been emphasized, with responsibility for project outcomes
    shared among all parties (beneficiaries and operator).

l Project teams should be allowed and encouraged to think outside of the box and support innovative
    ways of designing and implementing projects in West Bank and Gaza. Bank guidelines need to be
    flexible and one should not expect to design and implement projects in West Bank and Gaza as it is
    done in other countries.

l Where a project restructuring is justified by a change in the operating environment, the restructuring
    should be formal. It is unclear in this case why a formal project restructuring was not done. As a
    result, a project which had a satisfactory outcome in reality cannot be formally rated as such.

l Co-financing of Bank operations from other donors should be minimized when the possibility of
    cancellation of a large portion would jeopardize project outcomes; in such difficult and politically
    charged environment, the Bank should be the major funder, while co-financing in small amounts from
    other donors might be acceptable. Given the limited availability of funding for projects in West Bank
    and Gaza, parallel financing should be the preferred alternative to leverage our financing against that of
    other donors.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In addition to its "Implementation Completion Report" presented in Annex 8, the Borrower
commented on the Bank's draft ICR. The Borrower agreed that a formal restructuring of the
Project would have been warranted given the exceptional economic, political and institutional
circumstances. At the same time, the Borrower considered that the PMU performance was
satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Project Outcomes (as of end-2004 when most implementation activities were completed)

            Outcome                                                      Indicators
                                             Southern West Bank                               Gaza
                                     Contribution towards:
                                     ·     10% and 24% reduction in
                                           unaccounted-for water in
                                           Bethlehem and Hebron
                                           respectively
                                     ·     1.27 operating ratio achieved       ·   Overall system efficiency
                                                                                   maintained at around 64%
Improve sufficiency and                    in Bethlehem. Operating

efficiency of water and                    ratio figure not available for      ·   2,500 leak repairs performed
wastewater services                        Hebron
                                     ·     Unauthorized connections            ·   Average disinfection
                                           eliminated in Hebron and                efficiency of 100%
                                           reduced by 55% in
                                           Bethlehem.
                                     ·     No data available on
                                           constancy of supply.


                                     ·     Tariff study undertaken, but
                                           implementation postponed
                                           due to difficult operating
                                           environment.
                                     ·     Proposed Water Law
                                           enacted.
                                     ·     Support to restructure              ·   Support to retain the local
                                           WSSA.                                   staff that used to work for
Prepare and implement an             ·     Support for the consolidation           operator, enabling continuity
appropriate institutional                  of service councils into two            of service provision.
framework for water and                    Joint Service councils for
wastewater service provision; and          areas in Bethlehem not              ·   Assisted PMU in awarding a
build regulatory and institutional         served by WSSA.                         contract to a private operator
capacity                             ·     In Hebron, municipal                    for the management of water
                                           technical centers in charge of          and wastewater services in
                                           identifying priorities with             early 2005.
                                           PMU. Investment is
                                           maximized through
                                           contributions from
                                           beneficiaries towards
                                           manpower for installation of
                                           works.

Note: Data as of October 2004 when most of the project activities were completed.




                                                           - 15 -

West Bank ­ Specific output indicators

          Summary                          Indicators                    Target               Actual
                                                                                          Achievement
Outputs:                                                              BG        HG        BG       HG

                                    Increase Accounted-for-Water to 75% in both, BG and HG

                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 ­MC              60         60        63       69
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC            67         67        65        --
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             72         72         --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             75         75        60       74
                                    Improve constancy of supply of piped water for all customers to 70%
                                    of month
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 ­MC              40         40        73       28
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC            50         50         --       --

1. Improved management of           3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             60         60         --       --
water and wastewater                4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             70         70         --       --
services in the project area        Increase operating ratio to 1.5 and 1.3 in BG and HG, respectively.
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC              1.1        1.1      1-1.3    1.26
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC            1.2        1.1        --       --
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             1.35       1.2        --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             1.5        1.3      1.27       --
                                    Reduce electricity usage per unit of water delivered by 20% in BG
                                    and HG.
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC              2.5        2.5       19        0
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC             5          5        19        --
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             10         10         --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             20         20        85        --
                                    Repair and replace 2,000 and 4,000 of water meters in BG and HG,
                                    respectively.
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC              500       500       539      405
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC           1500       3,000     335      895
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU              --       500         --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU            2,000      4,000    5,120     6,595
                                    Replace 3,500 and 5,000 service connections in BG and HG,
                                    respectively.
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC              500       500       737        0
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC           1,000      1,500     802      575
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU            1,000      1,500       --       --
2. Rehabilitated water and
    wastewater network.             4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU            3,500      5,000    5,266     5430
                                    Replace 70 and 30 km of piping in BG and HG, respectively
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC               0          5         0        0

                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC           30+15       10       12.7      16
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             25         10         --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             70         30        45       40
                                    % Reduction of Unregistered Connections (Water Accounts; no
                                    cum)
                                    1. (Yr 1) Sep 00 -MC              10         10        19       11
                                    2. (Yr 2/3) Dec 02 -MC            25         25        56        --
                                    3. (Yr 3) Oct 03 -PMU             60         60         --       --
                                    4. (Yr 4) 0ct 04 -PMU             100       100        55      100
-- : data not available / BG: Bethlehem Governorate / HG: Hebron Governorate /
MC: Management Contract / PMU: Project Management Unit




                                                                   - 16 -

Gaza ­ Specific output indicators
Activity & Output                                                              Achievement

1. Water Network Maintenance & Leak Repairs
Assist in repairing leaks detected by the     Water network maintenance and leak repairs performed with outstanding
operator and /or reported by the              results. Total of around 2500 leak repairs accomplished during the reference
municipalities.                               period, out of those, 1750 repairs for pipes 50 mm and above.

2. Overall System Efficiency
Meter total consumption in m3 within the      Sustainable status of system efficiency achieved during the course of the
referenced period                             Interim Emergency Program (IEP, Nov.2003­ Oct.2004). Unfortunately, no
                                              progress achieved during the same period. Due to several severe pipe bursts
                                              resulted from the Israeli frequent incursions, leak repairs could not be carried
                                              out promptly since access to concerned sites was denied. 63.68 % overall
                                              system efficiency.

3. Meter Replacement
Replace damaged meters for both domestic      7366 domestic water meter & 128 meters for public buildings replaced.
and public buildings
4. Municipal Water Meters Repair

Repair Water Meters for Municipal Wells       Meters recalibrated and tested to meet the metrology standard for Class B
                                              meters in international standard (IS) 4064. Total achievement 38 wm.
Repair Domestic Meters                        Found more economic to purchase new meters than to repair old $20 new vs.
                                              $15 old). Decided to abandon the repair of domestic meter. All defective
                                              meters existing in PWA stores are sold at public auction. Repair work only
                                              carried out for water meters of large sizes (6-inch& 8-inch) used for water
                                              wells in the Municipalities.
5. Meter Reading Auditing Program
Improve existing meter reading service to     Exercise resumed in the second half of the interim emergency program period
increase the reliability of the consumption   and auditing team employed on the first of June 2004. Key tasks included:
figures,                                      recognizing and verifying meter readings taken by the municipal meter readers
                                              and identify the gaps in the reading cycle; checking out the meter readings and
                                              identifying unread meters, particularly public buildings and large consumers;
                                              Identifying possible water consumptions that are unmeasured; identifying all
                                              possible reasons for unaccounted for water including illegal water
                                              consumption; providing municipal team with all assisting information, advice
                                              and following up the implementation of the proposed programs; continuing
                                              data flow from the municipalities to the PWA.
6. House Connections & Pipes Replacement Program
Replace house connections, distribution       3,396 service connections completed and
networks and installing new connections.      40,000 meters of pipes ? 50mm installed
7. Improve Water Disinfection
Re-calibrate testing kits-each three months.  Excellent average disinfection efficiency of the municipal water networks
points)                                       achieved and 100% of the tested monthly samples showed positive results.
                                              The total number of samples 445.
8. Operation and Maintenance of Waste-water Systems
Maintain Electromechanical Operational        Overall electromechanical operation ratio 89.5% (the target in the service
Ratio = ai X (Rti / Mti) where, (ai) is the   improvement program was 89.6%) and the overall wastewater improving
weight factor of each equipment, the maxi-    quality composite achievement 93.5%. Many repair, maintenance and
mum value of (ai) is one,        (Rti) is the rehabilitation projects identified and launched in order to enhance functionality
actual running hours of the equipment         of the wastewater facilities. More than US$2m invested for this important
measured with hour meters (Mti) is the        target.
maximal time required by the process
9. Develop and Update Customer database
Update and maintain oracle customer           Total number of water and wastewater customers in the database has reached
database based on the delivered new           103,337 customers by the end of October 2004. (Number does not include the
customers from the municipalities. Operate    customers of the new small village councils.)
and support of X7 system in the pilot area
municipalities.




                                                             - 17 -

Activity & Output                                                     Achievement

10. Maintenance and other activities
Maintain & where necessary and         Achievements include: supply, refurbishment, installation and/or
possible, upgrade existing equipment & maintenance of: standby power supply diesel generators; pumping sets for
systems.                               water production wells; electrical control switch boards; complete electrical
                                       drive motors for water wells critical electrical and mechanical spare parts
                                       and materials required by PWA stores for periodic repairs and maintenance
                                       of the municipal water plant equipment and installations; critical electrical
                                       and mechanical spare parts and equipment; complete new pumping sets for
                                       water production wells & all chlorine dosing equipment with all associated
                                       spare parts and consumables which are essentially required to verify and
                                       secure water disinfection task; chlorine dosing equipment located at various
                                       municipal water production installations and essentially required to maintain
                                       water disinfection throughout water distribution networks; 1,000 m3/hour
                                       brackish water desalination plant located at Deir Al Balah municipality;
                                       Rafah main water booster station and Bani-Suhaila regional water booster
                                       station; & new water well L173 at Al Qarara municipality.




                                                        - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1: Project Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent)

Project Component           Appraisal  Appraisal   Actual/Lates Actual/Lates Actual/   Actual/
                            Estimate   Estimate          t           t       Appraisal Appraisal
                            (Total)      (IDA)       Estimate    Estimate    (Total)   (Bank)
                                                      (Total)     (IDA)
                            (US$ m)                  (US$ m)     (US$ m)      (%)       (%)
1. Management Contract       10.00       10.00         8.54        7.18       85%       72%
Fees
West Bank                    10.00       10.00         5.28        4.44       53%       44%
Gaza                            -          -           3.26        2.74
2. Operating Investment      10.00       10.00        12.33        10.55      123%      105%
Fund
West Bank                    10.00       10.00         6.56        5.61       66%       56%
Gaza                            -          -           5.77        4.94
3. Capital Investments       39.34                     8.52                   22%
West Bank                    39.34                     3.51                   9%
Gaza                            -          -           5.01
4. Technical Assistance      3.57         1.00         5.34        2.71       150%      271%
West Bank                    3.57         1.00         2.84        1.28       80%       128%
Gaza                            -          -           2.50        1.43
Total Project Cost           62.91       21.00        34.73       20.44       55%       97%
West Bank                    62.91       21.00        18.19        11.33      29%       54%
Gaza                                                  16.54        9.11




                                             - 19 -

Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)

Category                                                                              Procurement Method                                           Total
                                                                        ICB                 NCB                  Other                NIF1

                                                                                                      (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works

1.1 Capital Investments (EIB Packages)                                                                                                33.12       33.12
1.2 Allocations from BG & HG Budgets2                                                                                                 6.22         6.22
1.3 Operating Investment Fund (OIF)3                                     1.7                 1.5                                                   3.2

                                                       subtotal          1.7                 1.5                                      39.34       42.54

                                              Sub-total Works            1.7                 1.5                    -                 39.34       42.54

                                                    IDA Share           (1.70)              (1.50)                  -                   -         (3.20)

2. Goods
2.1 Operating Investment Fund (OIF)3                                     2.5                   1                   2.9                             6.4

2.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)                                                                                                          0.37         0.37

                                              Sub-total Goods            2.5                   1                   2.9                0.37         6.77

                                                  (IDA Share)           (2.50)              (1.00)               (2.90)                 -         (6.40)

3. Management Contract

3.1 Management Contract Fixed Fee          4                              8                                                                         8
3.2 Performance Incentive Compensation5                                   2                                                                         2


                                              Sub-total Goods            10                    -                    -                   -           10

                                                  (IDA Share)          (10.00)                 -                    -                   -         (10.00)

4. Services

4.1 Consultant Services                                                                                            1                  1.82         2.82

4.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)                                                                                                          0.38         0.38

                                           Sub-total Services             -                    -                   1                   2.2         3.2

                                                  (IDA Share)             -                    -                 (1.00)                 -         (1.00)

5. Incremental Operating Expenditure        6/                                                                     0.4                             0.4

                                                  (IDA Share)                                                    (0.40)                           (0.40)

Total                                                                    14.2                2.5                   4.3                41.91       62.91

                                                 (IDA Share)           (14.20)              (2.50)               (4.30)                 -         (21.00)

Notes:
I/ Includes financing of ECU30.0 million by EIB (US$35.69 million equivalent).
2/ This represents local counterpart funding required to:
a.       Maintain operating and financing to levels prior to the Management Contract, to cover staff, power, and consumables.
b.      Any additional funds required for works and goods beyond the Operating Investment Fund.
3/ Procurement from OIF is based on an approved yearly procurement plan in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
4/ The total Management Contract fixed fee for the term of the Contract shall not exceed US$8.0 million and is subject to competitive bidding.
5/ The total Performance Incentive Compensation for the term of the Contract exceeds US$2.0 million and is not subject to competitive bidding.
6/ Using Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Trust Fund Credit.
Totals may not add because of rounding




                                                                             - 20 -

Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)

Category                                                                           Procurement Method                            Total
                                                                     ICB               NCB           Other              NIF

                                                                                             (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works

1.1 Capital Investments (EIB Packages)                                                                                  3.51     3.51

1.2 Allocations from BG & HG Budgets

1.3 Operating Investment Fund

                                                   subtotal                                                             3.5      3.5

1(b) Gaza                                                                              1.99                             5.02     7.01

                                          Sub-total Works                              1.99                             8.53    10.52

                                                IDA Share                              (3.38)                                   (3.38)

2. Goods

2.1 Operating Investment Fund                                                                         3.80                       3.80

2(b) Gaza                                                                                             2.95                       2.95

2.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)

                                          Sub-total Goods                                             6.75                       6.75

                                                 IDA Share                                           (6.75)                     (6.75)

3. Management Contract

3.1 Management Contract Fixed Fee                                     5.28                                                       5.28

3(b) Gaza                                                                                             3.26                       3.26

3.2 Performance Incentive Compensation


                                          Sub-total Goods             5.28                            3.26                       8.54

                                                 IDA Share          (4.43)                           (2.74)                     (7.17)

4. Services

4.1 Consultant Services                                                                               2.84                       2.84

4(b) Gaza                                                                                             2.50                       2.50

4.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)

                                        Sub-total Services                                            5.34                       5.34

                                                 IDA Share                                           (2.79)                     (2.79)

5. Incremental Operating Expenditure                                                                  0.23                       0.23

5(b) Gaza

                                                 IDA Share                                           (0.23)                     (0.23)

Total
                                                                     5.28              1.99          15.58              8.53    31.37
                                                IDA Share           (4.43)             (3.38)        (12.50)                    (20.31)

Notes:
N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Trust Fund Credit.
Totals may not add because of rounding




                                                                            - 21 -

Table 4: Project Financing by Component Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate (in US$ million
equivalent)

Project Component                   Appraisal  Appraisal Appraisal  Appraisal  Actual/  Actual/  Actual/  Actual/
                                     Estimate  Estimate  Estimate   Estimate   Latest    Latest   Latest  Latest
                                      (Total)   (IDA)     (Govt)    (Cofin)   Estimate Estimate Estimate  Estimate
                                                                              (Total)   (IDA)    (Govt)   (Cofin)
                                     (USS m)   (US$ m)   (US$ m)    (US$ m)   (US$ m)   (US$ m)  (US$ m)  (US$ m)
1. Management Contract Fees            10.0      10.0      0.0        0.0       8.5       7.2      1.4      0.0
West Bank                              10.0      10.0       na         na        5.3      4.4      0.8      0.0
Gaza                                     -         -        -          -         3.3      2.7      0.5      0.0
2. Operating Investment Fund           10.0      10.0      na          na      12.3      10.5      1.8       0.0
West Bank                              10.0      10.0       na         na        6.6      5.6      1.0      0.0
Gaza                                     -         -        -          -         5.8      4.9      0.8      0.0
3. Capital Investments                 39.3                na         Na        8.5       0.0      1.2       7.3
West Bank                              39.3        -        na        Na         3.5               0.5      3.0
Gaza                                     -         -        -          -         5.0               0.7      4.3
4. Technical Assistance                3.6       1.0       na          na       5.3       2.7      0.1       2.5
West Bank                              3.6       1.0        na         na        2.8      1.3      0.1      1.5
Gaza                                     -         -        -          -         2.5      1.4      0.1      1.0
Total Project Cost                     62.9      21.0      6.2       35.7       34.7     20.4      4.5       9.8
West Bank                              62.9      21.0      6.2       35.7       18.2     11.3      2.4       4.5
Gaza                                                                            16.5      9.1      2.2       5.3
Note: totals may not add up due to rounding




                                                             - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. The PAD distinguishes between Bethlehem and Hebron and gives a net present value (NPV) and an
internal rate of return (IRR) for each. These results are not directly comparable to those of this ICR
because the results of these two towns are, here, lumped together because of data collection constraints and
availability.   Nevertheless, the results stated in the project appraisal document (PAD) were overly
optimistic when compared to those obtained in this ICR, as shown below:


 Governorate                      Economic
                            NPV             IRR (%)
                        ($million)
 Bethlehem                  3.13               31
 Hebron                     1.46               18
                                    Source: PAD Annex 4 (NPV converted to US$)

2. The assumptions made for the calculation of the NPV and the IRR are given in Table 1 of this annex.
The results of the calculations are respectively $1.4 million and 11%. As water tariffs were taken as proxy
for economic benefits, these results are more a reflection of the level of tariffs than indicative of the worth
of the project per se. Consumers' willingness to pay would have been a better measure but data are
unfortunately not available.

3. The period of analysis is 25 years which is long enough to capture all the effects of the various
components of the project, including technical assistance, reduction in unaccounted for water and growth in
demand for water and sewerage services.

                                         Table 1: Economic Analysis


                                          2000    2001     2002     2003     2004    2005    2006     2007   2008
  Number of new water connections 1/        261    292      173      144      283     289     294      300    306
  Number of new sewerage connections 2/      34     39        22       34      37      37      38       38     39
  Connection fees- Average (NIS)          1,800   1,800    1,800    2,000    2,000   2,000  2,000    2,000   2,000
  Total connection fees ('000 NIS)          531    596      351      356      640     652     664      677    690
  Volume of water sold ('000 m3) 3/       2,165   2,376    2,440    2,399    2,744   2,771  2,799    2,827   2,855
  Water tariff (NIS/m3) 4/                  4      4        4        4        4       4      5         6      6
  Water Sold ('000 NIS)                   8,660   9,504    9,760    9,596   10,976 11,086  13,996   16,963 17,133
  Other Revenues ('000 NIS) 5/              866    950      976      960     1,098   1,109  1,400    1,696   1,713


  Total Revenues ('000 NIS)              10,057  11,050   11,087  10,912    12,714 12,846  16,059   19,336 19,536


  Water Purchases ('000 NIS) 6/           9,104   9,038   10,999    9,908   11,579 11,695  11,812   11,930 12,049
  Operation & Maintenance ('000 NIS) 7/   5,966   5,499    5,313    4,530    4,541   4,632  4,724    4,819   4,915


  Total Costs ('000 NIS)                 15,070  14,537   16,312  14,438    16,120 16,327  16,536   16,749 16,964


  Net Revenue ('000 NIS)                 -5,013  -3,487   -5,225   -3,526   -3,406  -3,480   -477    2,587   2,571




                                                     - 23 -

                                                   Table 1 continued


                                                2009     2010      2011     2012      2013      2014     2015      2016    2025
  Number of new water connections 1/             312       319      325      325       325       325       325      325     325
  Number of new sewerage connections 2/           39        39       40       40        40         40       40       40      40
  Connection fees- Average (NIS)               2,000     2,000     2,000   2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000  2,000
  Total connection fees ('000 NIS)               703       716      730      730       730       730       730      730     730
  Volume of water sold ('000 m3) 3/            2,884     2,913     2,942   2,942     2,942     2,942     2,942     2,942  2,942
  Water tariff (NIS/m3) 4/                       6        6         7        7         7         7        7         7       7
  Water Sold ('000 NIS)                       17,304    17,477   20,594   20,594    20,594    20,594    20,594   20,594   20,594
  Other Revenues ('000 NIS) 5/                 1,730     1,748     2,059   2,059     2,059     2,059     2,059     2,059  2,059


  Total Revenues ('000 NIS)                   19,737    19,941   23,383   23,383    23,383    23,383    23,383   23,383   23,383


  Water Purchases ('000 NIS) 6/               12,170    12,291   12,414   12,414    12,414    12,414    12,414   12,414   12,414
  Operation & Maintenance ('000 NIS) 7/        5,014     5,114     5,216   5,216     5,216     5,216     5,216     5,216  5,216


  Total Costs ('000 NIS)                      17,183    17,405   17,630   17,630    17,630    17,630    17,630   17,630   17,630


  Net Revenue ('000 NIS)                       2,554     2,535     5,752   5,753     5,753     5,753     5,753     5,753  5,753


  NPV (NIS million)                           $1.41
  IRR                                         11%




1/ The number of water connection is assumed to increase by 2% per year after 2004 and stays constant after 2011 onwards
2/ The number of sewerage connections are assumed to increase at 1% per year after 2004 and stay constant after 2011 onwards
3/ The volume of water sold, which incorporates the extra water made available by the reduction in unaccounted for water,
   will increase by 1% after 2004 and remain constant after 2011 onwards
4/ Water tariffs are assumed to increase to 5 NIS/m3 in 2006, to 6 NIS/m3 in 2007 and to 7 NIS/m3 in 2001
5/ Other revenues are assumed to be 10% of water revenues throughout the life of the project
6/ Water purchases are assumed to increase by 1% after 2004 and remain constant after 2011 onwards
7/ Operation and maintenance costs are assumed to increase by 2% year after 2004 and remain constant after 2011 onwards.




                                                            - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/1997                   2    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT. DVPT
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (1); SR
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              11/1997                   3    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT. DVPT
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (1); SR
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              03/1998                   5    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT. DVPT
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (1); SR
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             WS&S ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/1998                   4    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT. DVPT
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL ADVISOR (1);
                                             UTILITY SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1998                   8    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT.
                                             DVPT SPECIALIST/TTL
                                             (1); SR SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANC.
                                             SPEC. (1); SR SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1); LEGAL
                                             ADVISOR (1); UTILITY
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); WS&S ENGINEER (1)
              11-12/1998                5    PRINC. PRIVATE SECT. DVPT
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (1); CHIEF
                                             COUNSEL (1); FINANC.
                                             SPEC. (1); WS&S ENGINEER
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision

              10/28/1999                4    MSSN LDR/FIN.ANLST. (1);         S               S
                                             SANITARY ENG. (1); SENIOR
                                             FIN. MMGT. SPCL. (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              01/27/2000                3    SECTOR MANAGER (1);              S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)



                                              - 25 -

               08/14/2000                          3     SECTOR MANAGER (1);                     S    S
                                                         FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                         SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
               06/02/2001                          2     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);                  S    S
                                                         SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
               06/14/2002                          2     INANCIAL ANALYST (1);                   S    S
                                                         ECONOMIST (1)
               10/30/2002                          2     FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL                   S    S
                                                         (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               03/19/2004                          6     FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);                   S
                                                         PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2);
                                                         OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                                         PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                         (1); LEGAL EXPERT (1)
               10/29/2005                          4     FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);
                                                         WATER AND SANITATION
                                                         SPECIALIST (1);
                                                         OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                         PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                         (1);

 ICR
               12/2005                             6      FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);
                                                          WATER AND
                                                          SANITATION
                                                          SPECIALIST (1);
                                                          OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                          (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                          SPECIALIST (2);
                                                          PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                                          (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        65.25                                 261
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   Included above                      Included above
  Supervision                                         127                                 508
  ICR                                                6.25                                  25
  Total                                             198.5                                 794
Note: BB funds only. Staff weeks calculated based on an averages staff week cost of US$4,000




                                                         - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. MC Audit Reports, Deloitte and Touche, dated March 2001 and December 2005.

2. Various PMU reports on performance and budgets.

3. Project Completion Report, PMU Gaza.

4. Water Sector Institutional Capacity Building Program, Statement of Works, USAID, undated
   document received from PMU.

5. Bank supervision report and project status reports throughout the project implementation period.




                                                 - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


                 The Palestinian National Authority




                        SOUTHERN AREA WATER

                                      AND

             SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                 Implementation Completion Report




                          (Borrower's Contribution)




                                        By




            The Project Management Unit (West Bank)




                                November 2005


                                       - 30 -

1.       ABSTRACT

In pursuit of creating a sustainable water sector, the Palestinian Water Authority has made its strategic
decision to increase the efficiency of the sector by moving at three different levels in the water sector. The
first level is the one assumed by the Palestinian Water Authority being the Regulator and overall supervisor
of the sector. The Bulk Utility is the second level where such entity provides its services at the bulk level;
and the Regional Utilities will be at the third level.        The water industry is characterized as being
"fragmented". Water departments within each municipality and village council operates and maintains the
water system within their service areas. The customers are not satisfied with the inadequate water supply,
deterioration of water quality and inadequate level of services. Therefore, and in order to create a more
efficient and sustainable sector, the PWA has adopted the strategy of creating Regional utilities. The first
attempt was in 1996 in Gaza Strip, and based on the Gaza experience, the Palestinian Water Authority has
launched its second project in the southern area of the West Bank; and an international operator was invited
to implement the project in Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates. This report, Implementation Completion
Report, is set to explain the implementation of the project and highlights the main lesson learnt from such
project.

2.       BACKGROUND

On April 1995, the Palestinian Water Authority was established by a Presidential Decree 90/1995 with the
primary objective of providing Palestinians with potable water at an affordable prices. This role is carried
out by the PWA under its capacity as the Regulator and overall supervisor of the water/wastewater sector.
The challenge that faces the PWA is how to ensure the continuation and the fulfillment of such mission at a
time when the external funding and support diminishes in time.

In order to accomplish such task, the primary strategic plan for the PWA became one of building a
sustainable sector. accordingly, the PWA believes that in order to have a sustainable water/wastewater
sector, the institutional arrangement has to be re-structured and revised to guarantee the efficient and
optimum utilization of the resources.

3.       INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK

During the time of establishment of the PWA, the water sector was served by three different types of
institutions:

The West Bank Water Department (WBWD). The WBWD is generally responsible for delivering bulk
water to utilities, municipalities or villages and the development, management and maintenance of
transmission system and some local networks; and coordinates the transactions between Palestinian Water
Utilities and the Israeli company Mekorot.

Water Department within local governments. Within the organizational structure of each local
government, municipality or village council, there is a water department that tends to the water systems in
the service area of that local government. The number and level of expertise of the people working in such
departments varies. In small village councils, the "department" consists of a single clerk whose
responsibility is the billing and collection, while the maintenance is conducted on need basis and is usually
carried out by private contractors (plumbers). On the other hand, in the main municipalities, the water
department consists of few engineers, technicians and administrative personnel and their tasks include all
other municipal activities in addition to water.

Two sub-regional utilities. There are two sub-regional utilities in the West Bank and Gaza. The first is
Jerusalem Water Undertaking (JWU) that was established to serve the Jerusalem District in addition to the
cities of Ramallah, El-Bireh, Deir Debwan, Silwad, (Beitonia and Bier Zeit as bulk water supply) and


                                                       - 31 -

currently some forty villages and refugee camps. The second is in Bethlehem District and is called the
Water and Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA); it serves the cities of Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Beit
Sahour and a number of villages and three refugee camps.

4.       The REFORMED SECTOR

The strategic plan for the PWA is to reform the institutional arrangement at the following three levels:

The Regulator. The PWA will concentrate more on its role as the Regulator and overall supervisor of the
sector. The task will be carried out at two different levels; economic and environmental. At the economic
level, the PWA is responsible to establish and regulate the water tariff, since its mission is to provide
potable water at an affordable price. Many municipalities fail to cover the basic costs of their operation
and maintenance. It is the belief that the tariff structure once approved by the National Water Council
would assist the various institutions working in the water sector to cover their full cost. At the
environmental level, the PWA would be monitoring the sector in a try to protect the resources from
pollution and depletion. As part of the PWA's policy elements, the polluter is to pay.

The second level in the reformed institutional arrangement is the Bulk Utility that is basically a
continuation to the present functions of the West Bank Water Department but in a more efficient manner
through reforming and restructuring the organization. The PWA will be seeking to secure additional
quantities of water by the drilling of new wells, as well the construction and maintaining of the main trunks
to carry water among the different Palestinian communities taking into consideration the integration of the
water systems between the West Bank and Gaza.

The third level in the reformed institutional arrangement is the Regional Utilities. As mentioned above
there will be four regional utilities providing the Palestinians with the needed services. The first regional
utility would be in Gaza, and the other three would be established in the West Bank (North, Central and
South). It should be noted that the water resources would not be privatized, but the services may. The
private sector would be solicited to operate the systems, but its performance would be monitored by the
asset holders (Board of Directors) as well the Regulator (PWA).

5.       MANAGEMENT CONTRACT

In order to establish such regional utilities, the PWA has sought the assistance of the World Bank. The
beginning was in Gaza in 1996. The idea of the management contract was lucrative to the Palestinian
Authority as well as to the international consultants and operators. The primary advantage of such type of
contract is its flexibility and low risk to the Palestinian Authority. In addition, the contract is relatively
short term and the PA retains access to soft loans for financing. As a result of being flexible with low risk,
such solution became appealing to the consultant who became the Operator of the system.

The primary objectives of the management contract are:

a. Improving the Quantity of water supplied to the end users through the increase in the efficiency of the
     water supply distribution system, and the improvement in the efficiency of the water supply and
     wastewater system operating equipment.

b. Improving the Quality of the water provided to the communities. This can be attained by improving the
     quality of water supplied through disinfection and other appropriate measures. In addition, the quality
     of the wastewater effluent would be improved to ensure the protection of the aquifer.

c. Improving the management of the water and wastewater systems. In order to reach such goal, the
     operator would assist in improving the efficiency of revenue collection, improve the operations of water


                                                      - 32 -

     and wastewater systems as well as improve the efficiency of customer service and public relations.

d. Improving the institutional aspects of the water and wastewater systems. This is carried out by
     improving the effectiveness of the management of the systems, improving the long range performance
     of the systems and preparing and assisting in the identification of the investment projects.


6.       DESIGN OF THE SOUTHERN AREA PROJECT

Due to the progress and improvement in the efficiency of the water and wastewater services in Gaza, the
PA sought the assistance of the World Bank. The Bank has allocated the needed funds to launch the
second performance based management, the new project concentrate on the southern area of the West
Bank; namely Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates. The structure of the management contract is the same
as the one in Gaza, and includes fixed fees, incentive fees as well as the operating investment fund.
However, the scope of work to carry out in both Governorates was different.

In Bethlehem Governorate, and since we there is a sub-regional utility (WSSA), the international operator
was required to carry out a full operation and management of the system. The WSSA employees would be
seconded to the operator, and the different tasks would be carried out under the direct supervision of the
operator. The next step, after improving the water and wastewater system in the service area of WSSA,
would be to expand the service area to include more communities in the Governorate, and transforming the
utility into one of regional utility.

In Hebron Governorate, the situation is slightly different since the services are provided by the water
departments within the local governments. Therefore, the international operator would be required to
review the system and provide technical advice as well as train the engineers and technician to carry out
their day to day operations and maintenance tasks.

The Project

Summary Project Scope and Objectives

The development objectives of the project are to:

a. Improve the sufficiency of water and wastewater services and the efficiency of their supply to
     customers in terms of quality, quantity and management by building on existing authorities ­ the Water
     Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA) for Bethlehem Governorate (BG) and the municipal water
     departments within Hebron Governorate (HG).

b. Prepare for and implement an appropriate institutional framework for water and wastewater service
     provision including the implementation of a performance-based management contract (MC) and
     building regulatory and institutional capacity in the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA).

The Contract (US$ 21 million)

The basic goals to be pursued under the Management Contract (MC) are to improve the quality and
quantity of water supplied and the management of the water and wastewater systems in Bethlehem and
Hebron Governorates.

As compensation for the delivery of services described under the MC, the Operator was paid a fee
consisting of two parts: a Management Fixed fee and an incentive fee based upon the attainment of
specified performance goals. The management fixed fee is a base fee that was paid to provide for



                                                     - 33 -

mobilization and operating costs during the period of the contract and finance necessary staff to implement
the four year Service Improvement Program. The performance incentive fee with a ceiling of US$2.0
million was paid for the operator at the end of each year based on the operator' s performance and the
targets achieved. The actual amount of the incentive fee received by the Operator depended on the extent of
the achievement of performance targets specified. The maximum amount of incentive fee that can be paid
annually was equal to US$500,000.

Operating Investment Fund (US$ 10.0 million). This Fund is established to provide immediate funds for
the purchase of materials, supply and equipment necessary to

(a)     rehabilitate water and wastewater infrastructure in both BG and HG.
(b)     enhance the efficient operation, maintenance and administration of the water and wastewater
systems in BG and BH.

The Operator will procure works and services on behalf of PWA based on the Annual Procurement Plan
which will submit to PMU for approval.

Technical Assistance (US$ 1.0 million). A program of TA is included under the project financed partly by
the World Bank and the European Investment Bank and includes:

a. provision to establish and support a Project Management Unit (PMU) to facilitate implementation of
    the project;
b. provide independent consultants to audit the operator's technical and financial performance and
    recommend performance incentive payments.
c. consultants to carry out semi-annual financial audit of project funds; and
d. provide resources for training, study tours and studies to improve the institutional capacity of the PWA
    and related staff presently, in the municipalities.

The PMU was responsible for coordinating and managing all project related activities i.e. management
contract, operating and capital investments. The PMU will report and act on behalf of the Head of the
PWA in dealing with the operator, donors, Municipalities, and other PA Ministries, related to the project.

Implementation Arrangements

The project was implemented mainly by the PWA's project management Unit, and the unit reports directly
to the Head of the PWA. The PWA will have overall responsibility for project coordination. However, the
project oversight and policy guidance will be done through the coordination committee. The Coordination
Committee (CC) was established and was responsible for overseeing and guiding the activities of the
Operator. This committee is made up of the following institute representatives:




                                                     - 34 -

Representative                                 Institution

Eng. Fadel Ka'wash ­ Chairman                  Palestinian Water Authority

Dr. Hussein Al-Araj                            Ministry of Local Government

Mr. Adnan Abu Ayyash                           Ministry of Housing

Mr.Basil Ramahi                                Ministry of Finance

Mr. Khalil Najim                               Ministry of Planning

Mr. Mustafa Natshah                            Mayor of Hebron

Mr. Hanna Naser                                Mayor of Bethlehem

Dr. Alfred abed Rabbo                          Bethlehem University

Mr. Khalid Osaily                              Private Sector-Hebron

Mr. Daoud Al-Zeer                              Private Sector-Bethlehem




The CC was envisioned to become the Board of the future regional utility. This committee is chaired by
PWA with representation from WSSA, the municipality of Hebron, the Ministry of Finance, the private
sector and other stakeholders

Special conditions and circumstances

The contract was signed with the French company, General des Eaux, who had a Palestinian firm Khatib &
Alami, and together the operator came to be known as GEKA. The team mobilized on September 1999 to
take the WSSA offices as their headquarters. Another, smaller office was opened in Halhul to run the
projects for Hebron Governorate. The contract continued for one full year, and by the end of the first year,
the Intifada started and the works were derailed.

The second contractual year which started on September 1 2000 was divided into two phases; the Force
Majeure period which lasted until the end of year 2000, and the Transition period which started on January
1 2001 and ended on August 31 2001. During that year the different parties agreed to compensate the
Operator for the works and services that were provided during that year; and contract amendment was
made to reflect that agreement.


At the start of the third contract year, 1 September 2001, it was assumed that the work would again be
honored according to the requirements of the original Management Contract in one way or another (i.e. that
the Transition Period ended 31 August 2001). On 4 September 2001, GEKA, declared its willingness to



                                                   - 35 -

continue on that basis, provided that a "Tentative Work Plan" should be used as the basis. In its reporting
during the consecutive months, GEKA compared its achievements against this plan. However, no formal
approval was given by PWA to this change of the contract.

On 4 April 2002, the situation became so difficult that GEKA declared Force Majeure.
Later correspondence states that the Operator was willing to continue on an incentive based contract. In
their letter of 15 May 2002, GEKA wrote that "we hereby confirm our willingness to proceed, whenever
the present situation allows, with a revised version of the Contract closer to the needs of a future utility and
better adapted to the likely unstable prevailing situation". No formal agreement between the parties was
entered into on this basis.

By June of 2002, it was evident that the continuation of the contract would not be in the best interest of the
three parties. GEKA could not fulfill the set targets, and hence will not be able to achieve the desired
bonus. For the PWA and the World Bank it meant the continuation of the depletion of the financial
resources at the time where no one would reach the set targets. Accordingly, GEKA's contract was
terminated, and the operator left the country by the end of 2002. In the meantime, the PMU took over the
implementation of the contract and worked with the different communities to improve the services.

The process could be illustrated as follows (as demonstrated in the auditor's report):


The Role of PMU

The Project management Unit was established on September 1999 to follow up the implementation of the
World Bank funded project (SAWSIP) as well as the implementation of the European Investment Bank
Capital Investment program that included 5 schemes with a total value of 30 million Euro. It should be
noted that all other programs that are designed and implemented in the southern area of the West Bank
would be done through the PMU and that includes the World Bank funded Emergency Water Program, and
other USAID funded projects that are described below. The total investment packages that have been
implemented through the PMU come close to 228.5 million USD. Those programs include:


Eastern Hebron Bulk Water Supply Project: The Bani Naim project is designed to connect to the
previously constructed Halhoul reservoir and the planned Yatta reservoir through a pipeline, supplying an
additional 320 m3/hour to the water provided to the southern West Bank. The work includes the
construction of two booster stations and approximately 35 km of pipelines, providing well pumping
facilities for two wells as well as providing permanent power in the southeastern part of the West Bank.
The cost of such works is estimated at 30 million USD




                                                    - 36 -

Hebron Wastewater Treatment Plant: Beginning in mid 2006, USAID plans to finance the construction
of a regional Wastewater Treatment plant in the south Hebron area. The construction of a phased 15,000
m3/day wastewater treatment plant includes a pre-treatment facility in the Hebron industrial area to screen
the wastewater from the municipality of Hebron, a conveyance pipeline south approximately 6.5 kilometers
from the industrial area to the main treatment plant, and the operation and maintenance training on that
plant for a period of 2 years. Included in the phased construction programs will be the conveyance
pipeline, wastewater treatment facilities, reuse storage and distribution programs, and a solid waste landfill
expansion project. The allocated budget for this project is 50 million USD.

Small Water Infrastructure Fast Track: The newly awarded SWIFT II project will implement
demonstration projects for the rapid, reliable development of local infrastructure. In specific, the purpose of
those programs is to assess access to water and sanitation services, repair critical water and sanitation
systems, and procure materials and equipment required for immediate repair of water and wastewater
systems in the West Bank and Gaza. The allocated budget is 7.5 million USD.

Aqraba-Rujeib Water Supply Program: This soon to be awarded program is a two-year initiative to
provide safe and sustainable water and sanitation services to at least 40,000 people in a cluster of 10
villages southeast of Nablus in the West Bank. Activities under this program will include equipping a
newly developed well and providing pumps, storage tanks, transmission lines, and household distribution



                                                     - 37 -

systems. Engineering designs, institutional planning, and environmental assessments were developed by
Camp, Dresser, and McKee under the Environmental Health Program IQC and through the Water
Resources Program Phase 3 contract to CH2MHill.            The selected contractor will furnish all labor,
materials, equipment and incidentals required to construct the specified water distribution systems in its
entirety as has been designed. The construction specified as the Awarta Booster Station will depend on the
quantity and quality of water produced by the well to be drilled and tested at the Rujeib Well and Booster
Station. The capacity of this booster station including pumping units must be confirmed by the Engineer
prior to construction. Depending upon the capacity of the Rujeib Well, benefiting villages are expected to
consist of Awarta, Osarin, Aqraba, Majdal Bani Fadel, Duma, Qusra, Jurish, Jalud, Qaryut and Talfit.
The WIC contractor will be expected to work closely with the Construction Management Contractor,
PWA, and relevant village councils to develop a Joint Services Council (JSC) responsible for operation and
maintenance of the Rujeib Well and distribution network, to train the JSC staff in operations and
maintenance procedures, and to develop a system of billing and collection to sustainably finance this water
system. The estimated budget for this project is expected to be around 18 million USD.

Emergency Water Operations Center was created by USAID in April 2002 in partnership with the
Palestinian Water Authority and NGOs in response to the humanitarian crisis that evolved during military
incursions in the West Bank and Gaza. Damage to water and electrical infrastructure resulted in disruption
of water delivery to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. In response EWOC trucked water to hard-hit
cities and rural communities, repaired and replaced damaged pipes, and provided new generators and
pumps. EWOC activities included conducting needs assessments, designing replacement systems, and
overseeing the repair of wells and the installation of new water filling stations. EWOC developed a water
preparedness program for the West Bank to restore depleted stocks of spare parts and to develop
emergency water management plans. USAID funded activities under EWOC expired in 2004 however the
World Bank has provided funding to the Project Management Unit of the Palestinian Water Authority for
additional activities through 2007. The budget is 9.5 million USD.

Bethlehem-Abu Dis Wastewater Collection, Treatment, and Reuse: Within the next year, USAID/West
Bank and Gaza anticipates an award for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) as well
as pumping stations and transmission pipelines needed to connect wastewater flows to the WWTP. It is
likely that construction of treated water reuse systems in agricultural areas east of Bethlehem will be
incorporated into this activity.     A feasibility study must be completed before the full scope and
geographical coverage area of this project can be determined. The WIC contractor will be expected to
work closely with the Construction Management Contractor, PWA, Ministry of Agriculture, relevant
municipal or JSC authorities and the private sector to develop appropriate institutional capacities to
sustainably operate, maintain, and finance this facility. The estimated budget for this project comes at 50
million USD.

Institutional progress

Bethlehem Governorate

In Bethlehem Governorate, and since there is a sub-regional utility (WSSA), the international operator was
required to carry out a full operation and management of the system. The WSSA employees were seconded
to the operator, and the different tasks were carried out under the supervision of the operator. It was
envisioned as a next step, after improving the water and wastewater system in the service area of WSSA, to
expand the service area to include more communities in the Governorate, and transforming the utility into
one.

The PMU worked in the villages of Bethlehem, outside the service area of the WSSA, and divided the


                                                    - 38 -

villages into three areas. Each area had its own Service Council. Two Joint Service Councils were
officially declared; the Eastern JSC and Western JSC, and now the next target is the Southern JSC. The
establishment of those JSC comes with the mutual understanding that they would be integrated to become
part of the Southern regional utility. The PMU has been working with those JSC and supply them with the
needed technical assistance, as well as the materials to increase the efficiency of their systems. At the
WSSA, the PMU has worked during the presence of the operator, and after the termination of the contract
to restructure the organization, and many tasks were achieved which include:

l An organizational structure was set for the WSSA, with a detailed job description for the senior
    positions at the organization
l Setting the scope of work for each of the departments of the new structure
l Putting together an evaluation report for the current staff prior to reallocating them based on the new
    structure
l Setting standard operating procedures for the technical operations
l Evaluating, and for the first time, the value of the organizational assets
l Setting a new billing and collection system and continue to providing the WSSA with the needed
    technical assistant
l Setting a new accounting system and provide the needed training and continue with the technical
    assistant
l Setting up a financial and procurement procedures and follow up their implementation
l Setting up a new payroll



Hebron Governorate

In Hebron Governorate, the situation is slightly different since the services are provided by the water
departments within the local governments. Therefore, the international operator would be required to
review the system and provide technical advice as well as train the engineers and technician to carry out
their day to day operations and maintenance tasks.
In order to facilitate the work of the international operator in Hebron Governorate, the area was divided
into five centers based on the population size in each of those sectors. The PWA with the operator have
held a series of meetings with the mayors and chief engineers in each of those sectors at which the
objectives of the establishment of those sectors was explained. It was clear to everyone that the operator,
with the assistance of PWA, would establish technical centers at each sector with the ultimate objective of
integrating them all into one regional utility.

It should be noted that an assessment study was commissioned by the Environmental Health Project (EHP)
and carried out by American Near East Refugee Aid (ANERA), detailing the institutional and financial
feasibility of establishing a set of Joint Services Councils (JSC) for water and wastewater in the West Bank
Governorates of Hebron. The proposed project was designed to provide safe and sustainable water and
sanitation services to rural communities in the West Bank and is a component of the USAID Village Water
and Sanitation Program (VWS).

ANERA's assessment concerns a variety of important and related issues including local organization,
infrastructure, governance, geographical location and established patterns of water and sanitation systems
use.

Some of the general findings from the study are as follows:




                                                     - 39 -

l Despite significant variation in the infrastructure, economy and population of the clusters designated
    for the purposes of this study, the representatives of all clusters expressed strong support for
    establishing JSCs.

l The village councils are currently responsible for managing the existing water networks within their
    villages. The proposed JSCs would have to assume responsibility for the management of the new water
    networks for the foreseeable future. None of the village councils in the Governorate expressed any
    objection to having the JSC take over such a management function.

l Some of the features characteristics of the communities that have existing water systems include the
    debts that are accumulating from non-payment for bulk water by the village/town councils.


Accordingly, a PMU coordinator was nominated to work with each center, and was required to provide the
technical assistant that are needed by the different communities. The PMU coordinator would be working
with the different local government authorities trying to identify their needs of projects, equipment and
materials. The management of the PMU would then study those requests and make the decision regarding
those requests. If the projects are approved, then the community would required to provide the manpower
for the installation where the PMU would be providing the material and the supervision. Such work has
proved to be the ideal way since it has empowered those communities and increased their sense of
ownership.

Lessons learned

1. The Management Contract format has proven to be the proper format to protect the interests of the
    different parties. The PWA and the Bank are guaranteed to receive the desired services from the
    operator at the agreed contract prices. The operator's interests are protected and the operator's risk is
    minimized under the more challenging circumstances, and this was the case during the years of the
    Intifada and the military incursions.

2. The formation of the PMU needs to be structured with greater attention, based on the assigned tasks.
    During the course of its function, the PMU has proven to be the entity that can assume the same
    responsibilities as those of the "operator", and with some modification and the technical support, the
    work would be carried out in a more professional manner. The original scope of work mandated that
    the PMU would coordinate with the communities and the donor community regarding the
    implementation of the different projects and the improvement of the services; and act the liaison
    between the different parties. However, this role was significantly changed after the Intifada and the
    declaration of the Force Mejeure by the operator. The PMU, after adding the local staff, who were
    part of the operator's team, started acting as the operator of the sector; and additional tasks were
    assumed by the team including the procurement services, supervising the operation and maintenance of
    the WSSA, providing technical assistance to the different communities and continue its role in the
    donor coordination in the southern area of the West Bank.

3. The institutional arrangement should be handled from the early stages of the program. It was found
    that the operator would carry out and concentrate more on those technical issue that would generate
    additional revenue in the bonus, and would push back the implementation of those tasks that have no
    incentive such as the restructuring of the of the organization, training, health plans and emergency
    plans. This was evident in the report of the auditors for the first year where they sited 26 different
    tasks from the service appendix that GEKA did not report on their implementation (attached is the list)

4. Incentive bonus that is used to pay the municipal engineers and technical people, for the additional
    tasks, should be thought and structured in a more careful manner. The bonus that was paid for the


                                                     - 40 -

   local municipal engineers and technical individuals did more harm than good. Many of the local
   engineers were looking at the bonus as their "right" and were threatening to halt work unless the bonus
   is paid first, and they have failed that they were paid the bonus for the extra work on top of their
   salary. The bonus system should have been part of the restructuring of the organization with its by
   laws and regulations, and should not be paid on monthly basis but should based on a well know system

5. Training should be looked upon seriously and should carry some weight. The operator would find the
   easy way out of doing its work, and would hire extra help to do its work rather than work more
   intensely with the existing labor force and carry out the needed training. It suffice to say that no
   training was conducted by the operator, and only a modest attempt was made to do a needs assessment
   as a first step in preparing the training program

6. Incentive bonus for the operator should be revisited. The operator starts to work to achieve the tasks
   that would create more bonus, and neglect those that have no bonus attached to them. As mentioned
   earlier many tasks were not reported to have achieved any progress due to the simple fact that the
   operator would not benefit at the end of the contractual year after the auditors would start their scoring
   at set the bonus level

7. The area of the service differs from one place to another, and the area of the West Bank area is larger
   than Gaza. Accordingly, this fact should be studied carefully when setting the budget of the projects,
   the needed services and the size of the PMU. The proper size of the manpower and the level of
   investment needed are the prerequisite for the success and failure of any program

8. The finances of the project should be used exclusively for the benefit of the project, and no funds,
   under any circumstances, should be reallocated to other projects outside the original scope of work of
   the project. The reallocation of a significant amount of funding, almost 50% of the budget, to Gaza
   project has not been a wise decision. Much of the funding that was reallocated to Gaza was paid for
   the operator (LEKA). The monthly fees were very high compared to the level of services that were
   required from the operator. Both projects, Gaza and the West Bank, could have benefited from the
   funds that were paid to the operator, if the Gaza PMU has carried out the work themselves. When the
   decision was made not to extend the contract of LEKA, and the PMU-Gaza team was required to carry
   out the work itself, almost 1.2 million USD were saved (in Gaza alone) and used to rehabilitate the
   system. Due to the fact that much of the funded was reallocated to Gaza, many of the works in the
   West Bank had to be canceled or reduced the scope. However, some of the urgent tasks and works
   were funded by other donors; namely the USAID and the AFD.               Accordingly, many of the set
   objectives for the SAWSIP were met

9. The World Bank criteria for judging the performance of the program should be revisited and should not
   depend on the speed of spending the funds. The efficient allocation of the funds should be considered,
   especially when other donors are co-financing some of the projects in the same area.




                                                   - 41 -

Summary of Activities Implemented in Gaza with Financing from the Project


1.       WATER NETWORK MAINTENANCE AND LEAK REPAIRS


Water network maintenance and repair program has been identified as a key task to be implemented in the
Gaza Strip municipalities as part of the scope of work of the Service Improvement Project's Extension and
Interim Emergency Program (IEP). Leak repairs contribute to the reduction of physical losses in the water
distribution systems starting from the water source down to the customer connections.

More than 2500 network maintenance and leak repair jobs were performed during the SIP extension and
IEP starting from November 2000 to the end of October 2004, out of those, 1750 repairs were for pipes 50
mm and above. The network repair program has significantly contributed to the reduction of physical
water losses.

The following activities have been carried out by PWA team to perform a comprehensive leak repair
program:

1. In order to track network repairs in Gaza Strip municipalities, the standard reporting format which was
    introduced to the municipal staff previously has been activated and followed up. Database which was
    created provides historical information on the number of repairs, location, material, pipe size and type
    of burst.

2. Site visits were carried out for all municipalities of the Gaza Strip. The purpose of these visits is to
    maintain the needed momentum to carry out network maintenance activities and to identify the
    municipal needs during the interim period.

3. In order to improve the level of security and safety during the execution of water works in the Gaza
    Strip, a complete safety package was ordered under the contract NS 56-01. The safety package
    includes two categories: Road Safety Signs (Traffic Management) & Personal Safety & Protection
    Equipment.    These tools and equipment have been issued to the municipalities according to the
    maintenance team number in each municipality.

4. In order to support the municipal water departments in carrying out the daily network repair and
    maintenance duties, various National Shopping contracts have been launched (see Financial
    Achievement Annex).


Impact of Israeli incursions:
l Repeated and frequent Israeli incursions to several areas in the Gaza strip called for prompt response to
    assist the intended municipalities. This assistance was responding to the Municipalities request for
    damage repairs and based on a damage assessment report prepared by both the PMU and the municipal
    staff.

l It is worth mentioning that, large quantities of repair materials were consumed during these repeated
    incursions.

Update of Water Networks Maps:
l This task was resumed as an integral part of leak detection & network repair task.




                                                    - 42 -

l     Accurate & updated maps for water network are necessary for tracing the leakage location and
    supporting the municipal maintenance team in the repair and maintenance activities. An action plan
    was placed to finalize this task before the end of September 2004. This Task was completed by
    October 2004, where soft and hard copies of updated maps have been submitted to all Gaza strip
    municipalities.

2.      OVERALL SYSTEM EFFICIENCY

It has been recognized in the SIP extension and the IEP, that reducing unaccounted for water in Gaza Strip
is an important key task. The overall system efficiency is defined as the ratio between the volumes of water
billed as recorded by the municipalities on a monthly basis and the volume of water produced from
municipal, Mekorot and private sources like rented agricultural wells.

During the SIP extension and the IEP, efforts were exerted to keep sustainable system efficiency levels as
they were achieved before. It is worth mentioning that some difficulties were experienced in receiving
municipal reports. In several cases some incorrect meter readings and billing figures were reported. PWA
task team in such cases performed additional cross checking exercise and extra refinements of the received
data.

The following paragraphs summarize the efforts and initiatives taken to improve the overall system
efficiency:

1. Water Network Maintenance and Leak Repairs:

This activity has been re-addressed strongly in order to maintain the reduction of physical water
losses achieved during the SIP implementation and resulted from defects in the water networks.

Summary of Achievement

        Definition       Hydraulic Efficiency (%) =Total Consumption/ total Production, Where: total
        consumption is consumption in m3 within the defined period.
        The total consumption should be the "metered consumption in m3 within the referenced period.

        Justification    Monthly overall system efficiency report that includes:
        -Monthly Consumption statements from the municipalities.
        -Monthly Production statements from the municipalities.

Executive Summary:

Sustainable status of system efficiency has been achieved during the course of the Interim Emergency
Program (IEP). Unfortunately, no progress achieved during the same period. Due to several severe pipe
bursts resulted from the Israeli frequent incursions. Leak repairs could not be carried out promptly since
access to concerned sites was denied. 63.68 % overall system efficiency of the Interim Emergency
Program period (Nov.2003 ­ Oct.2004). A sustainable level of system efficiency is mainly attributed to
three factors: resuming the activity of the Meter Reading Auditing program, leaks repair program and the
meters replacement program.

Significant reductions in the unaccounted for water can still be achieved by regularizing illegal



                                                    - 43 -

connections. The municipalities and PWA should define a clear policy regarding this issue.


3. Meters Replacement:

The meter installation program was extended to cover non-metered buildings including hospitals, schools,
mosques, parks, administrative (public) buildings, etc in addition to the regular domestic blocked meters
replacement program.

During the period of Interim Emergency Program, 7366 domestic and 128 public building meters have been
replaced and installed. It is considered that the meter installation program had significantly contributed to
the reduction of metering losses.

3.1. Procurement of water meters

Due to the limited budget assigned for the metering tasks in this Interim Emergency Program we decided to
purchase a relatively small number of water meters.

An international shopping contract (IS 01-17) was launched to purchase 3000 meters of dry type only of
3/4 inch size.

The contract was awarded to an Israeli Company (Arad Co.) with a price of 20 USD for each meters.

The water meters fulfill the requirements of our contract and they also meat the specifications of the
international standards (IS 4064).

Summary of Achievement

 Definition:     Replacement of damaged meters for both domestic and public buildings

Justification: SIP Extension and IEP agreement.
                  Monthly reports of replaced meters
                  Meter replacement data base.

Executive Summary:

   One of the main tasks which is necessary to increase the overall hydraulic efficiency is the
   replacement of Water Meters

   The aim of this Task was to replace water meters for both domestic and public buildings.
   Whereas, the replacement of domestic meters was carried out by the municipality plumbers, and
   the replacement of meters for public building was mainly carried out by a local contractor.

   A national shopping contract (NS 06 16) was awarded under number to a local contractor to
   replace 70 water meters of different sizes for different public buildings in some municipalities as
   shown hereafter.

   During the execution of domestic meter replacement, the municipality plumbers replaced also 58
   meters for public buildings where possible.



                                                     - 44 -

   The total achievement of this task as follows:
    1- Replacement of 7366 domestic water meter.
    2- Replacement of 128 meters for public buildings.


4. Municipal Water Meters Repair

4.1 Repair of Water Meters for Municipal Wells

The blocked meters of municipal wells were transferred from all municipalities to PWA store in order to be
repaired, recalibrated and reinstalled for the water wells throughout launching a direct contract (DC 16-21)
with a local workshop.

4.2 Repair of Domestic Meters

It was intended to continue the meter repair and recalibration program, which has started during the SIP
project. In the original target of the task was to repair and recalibrate domestic and municipal meters.

It was found that the repair of domestic meters was not feasible where the repair costs 16 USD for each
meter while the price of new meter is about 20 USD, knowing that the life time of repaired meter was much
less than a new meter.

For the above, it was decided to abandon the repair of domestic meter. All defected meters existing in PWA
stores were sold in a public auction. The repair work was only carried out for water meters of large sizes
(6-inch& 8-inch) which are used for water wells in the Municipalities.



Summary of Achievement

 Definition:      Repair of Water Meters of Municipal Wells.

 Justification:   Meter Repair contracts
 Repaired meters Reports that includes meter testing reports

Executive Summary:

The target of the task was to repair water meters of 6-inch and 8-inch sizes used for municipal water
wells.

The meters were recalibrated and tested to meet the metrology standard for Class B meters mentioned
in the international standard IS 4064 where the percentage error should be within +/- 2% at
transitional and nominal flow rate of the meter and also within +/-5% at minimum flow rate.

         The total achievement is 38 wm as following:
         1. Repair 21 meters of 8-inch size
        2. Repair 17 meters of 6-inch size




                                                      - 45 -

5. Meter Reading Auditing Program

In order to improve the existing meter reading service and to increase the reliability of the consumption
figures, the audit exercise which was developed during the SIP implementation has been resumed in the
second half of the IEP period and an auditing team was employed on the first of June 2004.

The following functions are performed as part of the auditing program:

1. Recognize and verify meter readings taken by the municipal meter readers and identify the gaps in the
    reading cycle.
2. Check out the meter readings and identify unread meters, particularly public buildings and large
    consumers.
3. Identify possible water consumptions that are unmeasured.
4. Identify all possible reasons for unaccounted for water including illegal water consumption.
5. Provide the municipal team with all assisting information, advice and follow up the implementation of
    the proposed programs.
6. Continuity of data flow from the municipalities to the PWA.



6. House Connections & Pipes Replacement Program

PWA has been working to improve the water services situation in Gaza Strip. Through the World Bank
project (SIP), PWA has replaced about 330 km of distribution pipes in the previous three phases to
minimize water losses from old pipes.
During the SIP extension and IEP, a 4th phase was launched for the replacement of about 40 km in some
municipalities that reported lower system efficiencies all over Gaza Strip and mainly in Gaza city &
Northern Gaza.

The project had been divided into three contracts of works and one of consultancy & supervision services
as per the following list:

1. Gaza Area (NCB 42-28 & NCB 42-29),
2. Northern Area (NCB 42-30),
3. Consultancy service (C2S 42-27)



Summary of Achievement

Definition      Replace house connections, distribution networks and installing new connections.



Justification   Bid documents , Lists of the installed H.C, As built drawings

Achievement
1.       3396 service connection had been completed, and
2.       40,000 ml of pipes · 50mm were installed

7. Improve Water Disinfection



                                                   - 46 -

7.1. Chlorine Delivery:

During the SIP extension and the IEP a total quantity of around 1600 M3 of Sodium Hypo-chlorite
solution was supplied to the water installations in the Gaza Strip. The delivery was including also,
Hydrochloric acid, Sodium Metabisulfite, caustic soda and Antiscale for the three brackish water
desalination plants in Gaza Strip.

The provision of these chemicals to the desalination plants contributed significantly in the improvement of
the water quality particularly in areas including Khan Younis and Deir Al Balah municipalities where the
levels of Chloride and Nitrate in water are relatively high.

7.2. The regional storage and distribution stations:

Israeli military incursions have divided Gaza strip in several occasions into three isolated parts. This
demonstrated serious threat on delivery schemes of chlorine and chemicals to the various water
installations.

Contracts NCB 02-16 and NCB 02-16 preserved the three emergency storage and distribution stations. One
in Gaza (serves Gaza city and the Northern Area), the second in the Middle area, and the third in
KhanYounis (serves KhanYounis and Rafah). Each of them has a stock of three months supply of chlorine
and chemical materials.

The regional storage and distribution stations were very helpful during road closure due to Israel military
activities. This arrangement has solved the problem of chlorine shortage which could seriously affect the
people public health.


7.3. Residual Chlorine Monitoring Program:

The monitoring program continues to be performed in all the municipalities on a regular basis using the
Photometer test kit, which was available to health departments in each municipality. Consumables and
reagents required to run the program were also available as planned in the standard disinfection procedure.

Tests and sampling are being carried out for free and total chlorine on a fixed identified number of
sampling points (445 sampling points) selected carefully to be representative of the entire water
distribution network. The results are available in the Program's Database, which is designed to establish a
historical reference on this important task.

Due to managerial problems, some municipalities did not carry out the tests in certain months.
Immediately, written notice was being sent to those municipality to rectify the gap and to resume the test
process (refer to the monthly reports).

The results of the monitoring program had shown clearly that by the end of October 2004 that the
disinfection efficiency is achieved in excellent manner a 100%.

7.4. Chlorine Dosing Units ­Spare parts and serviceability:

Since the chlorine dosing pumps are the main deriving tool of having proper and secured water disinfection,
a great care has been made during the SIP extension and the IEP to keep stock of chlorine dosing units and
essential spare parts and consumables at PWA stores. This was done under the task of water facilities


                                                     - 47 -

maintenance. PWA co-coordinators and the municipal chlorine technicians under the supervision of the task
manager were responsible for implementing the delivery and repair procedures.

7.5. Calibration of chlorine photometers

Arrangement has been made to perform three months calibration and testing program for the 25 municipal
testing kits to ensure accurate measurements for free chlorine.
The Task Manager used to perform such test on the presence of the municipal technician and PWA
regional coordinator, and issued a calibration certificate identifying the range of uncertainty .Any set that
has uncertainty level outside the range specified by the manufacturer; has been taken out for repair and
replaced by new calibrated kit.



     Summary of Achievement

     Definition Water disinfection efficiency (%) = (Total number of positive residual chlorine sampling
     points + total failures passed within 48 hours of the first sampling) / (total number of the measurable
     sampling points)

     In addition, the following should be considered: (1) Re-calibrating the testing kits-each three months,
     and (2) the reading that comes within the uncertainty of the testing kit will be considered as failure.
     Uncertainty of the kit is: + 0.05 mg/Liter
     Justification
      l Chemicals procurement documents (tender and contract document)
      l Monthly residual chlorine report for all municipalities.
      l Monthly disinfection reports.


     Target       To maintain the disinfection efficiency at the same level achieved (99.8% average 12
     months providing that the total failures to pass within 48 hours doesn't exceed 2%)

     Executive Summary:
     During this period, an excellent average disinfection efficiency of the municipal water networks was
     achieved and 100 % of the tested monthly samples showed positive results. The total number of
     samples is 445.

     NCB contracts have been launched to secure the delivery of all treatment materials. They cover the
     disinfection chemicals of Sodium hypo-chlorite (for about 105 water wells and reservoirs) and other
     chemicals required for the water treatment at three desalination plants. A total quantity of around
     1600 M3 of Sodium Hypo-chlorite solution was supplied to the water installations in the Gaza Strip


8. Operation and Maintenance of Wastewater Systems:

The Wastewater treatment plant systems currently in operation in Gaza Strip are three, in the Northern
Cities, in Gaza City and in Rafah City. The other areas (Khanyounis and the Middle Camps) have no
system yet. During the SIP extension and the IEP, PWA's PMU has continued to assist those three
WWTPs throughout the following main activities:

8.1. Operating of Wastewater Facilities



                                                      - 48 -

l Supervise the daily routine operational activities and provide the needed technical and managerial
    assistant through periodic visits to the sewage pumping station and periodic meetings with the
    concerned municipal staff.
l Identification of the sewage pumping stations needs in terms of electromechanical spare parts.
l Manage the implementation of the electromechanical repair and maintenance works
l Construction of a sewage pumping station in the Northern Area WWTP to pump the treated
    wastewater from the existing lake to the infiltration basins.
l Supply of sewage networks materials to the municipalities to maintain the damages repair works which
    resulted from the frequent Israeli incursions to Gaza strip cities.

8.2.     Improving Wastewater Quality :

l Monitor and supervise the daily operation of the existing three wastewater treatment plants.
l Monitor and supervise the wastewater laboratory activities .All the laboratory consumables and
    instruments needed were procured. Calibration of the laboratory instrument and the testing method are
    carried out periodically.
l Supervise the routine maintenance activities and provide the needed technical assistance during the
    periodic visits and meetings.
l Identify the treatment plants needs for maintenance works and procure the maintenance works and
    supervise the process in general.
l Procurement of the operation and maintenance materials and equipments of the treatment plants (spare
    parts, consumables, chemicals, etc.)
l Plan and manage the upgrading and maintenance projects for the WWTPs.
l Electromechanical upgrading of Gaza Area and Northern Area WWTPs.




  Summary of Achievement

 Definition      Electromechanical Operational Ratio = ai X( Rti / Mti) where, (ai) is the weight factor
 of each equipment, the maximum value of (ai) is one, (Rti) is the actual running hours of the
 equipment measured with hour meters (Mti) is the maximal time required by the process. This figure
 will be a result of our report on theoretical treatment capacities of the three existing treatment plants.

 Targets:
  l Implementing a quality-monitoring program for the three existing treatment plant.
  l Supply the needed chemicals for the implementation of the monitoring program.
  l Reducing the BOD, COD and TSS in the three existing treatment works and achieve an overall
     composite target of 97%
 Justification operational monthly report and maintenance contracts

 Executive Summary:

  Many repair, maintenance and rehabilitation projects have been identified and launched in order to
  enhance functionality of the wastewater facilities; where more than USD 2m were invested for this
  important target (see details in the financial achievement)
  As a result, the overall electromechanical operation ratio is 89.5 % (the target in the SIP was 89.6%)



                                                      - 49 -

  and the overall wastewater improving quality composite achievement is 93.5%.

9. Develop and Update Customer database

This task was developed in order to give P.W.A a crucial tool to face the future challenge of creating the
Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU). The absence of a unified and homogeneous computerized
customer database was always a great concern for PWA, as any operator of the water sector in the future
will need such a database.

In the general circumstances which revealed during the past 3 years in Palestine and the risk of sudden
collapse of the water and wastewater services systems; this made it even more critical to have a
computerized customer data base of the water and wastewater customers.

During the original SIP project (executed by LEKA), the core of the computerized customer database was
created under Oracle environment (report is provided). The core of this database was created through bulk
manual data entry of all customer records and their basic data. Manual data entry was used in the absence
of technical solution to transfer the data from the old municipal systems electronically.

As for the task under the current emergency extension, it was limited to the continuous update of the
customer data base using the same format of reporting.

It is worth mentioning that not all municipalities submit new customers report every month as some of them
do not have new customers in some particular months, and others would prefer to report the new customers
in one list that would consist of new customer who subscribed to the water and wastewater services several
months prior.



   Summary of achievement:

 Definition      Update and maintain oracle customer database based on the delivered new customers
 from the municipalities
                  Operate and support of X7 system in the pilot area municipalities.

 Justification Updating customers' database according to lists submitted by the municipalities.
                   Monthly report of delivering meter reading lists and bills

 Executive Summary
 The total number of water and wastewater customers in the database has reached 103,337 customers
 by the end of October 2004. This number does not include the customers of the new small village
 councils.

10. Maintenance and other activities

During the implementation of the SIP extension and the IEP, and based on various municipal enquiries and
the occurrence of emergency malfunctioning events, several projects and orders of electrical and
mechanical repair ,refurbishment , upgrading and construction works have been prepared and carried out
and supervised. Purpose was technically assessed and made to safe and secure the municipal water and
wastewater services installations and equipment against any malfunctioning and stoppage events keeping



                                                     - 50 -

sustainable services and preventing any serious deterioration of plants and equipment.

Due to the political conditions in the Palestinian Territories, most of the municipalities suffer of financial
constraints. Therefore, the municipal requisitions for emergency refurbishment and repairs were
abnormally increased where the municipalities have shortage of financial resources and skilled labors and
technicians to deal with specialized sorts of faults events.

The following summary of refurbishment and repairs contracts and orders were placed and carried out
under the supervision of the PMU of PWA .It covers various types of works, which have been implemented
for electrical and mechanical installations located at the municipal water plants and equipment.

 1. Refurbishment and overhauling standby power supply diesel generators

 2. Mechanical Upgrading and refurbishment for pumping sets -water production wells.

 3. Electrical refurbishment and repairs of electrical control switch boards

 4. Supply and installation complete electrical drive motors for water wells

 5. Procure and supply critical electrical and mechanical spare parts and equipment

 6. Supply and install complete new pumping sets for water production wells.

 7. Procure, supply and installation of all chlorine dosing equipment with all associated spare parts and
    consumables which are essentially required to verify and secured water disinfection task through out
    the municipal water distribution networks .

 8. Arrange for all required repairs and maintenance of chlorine dosing equipment located at various
    municipal water production installations and essentially required to maintain water disinfection through
    out water distribution networks.

 9. Comprehensive renovation and refurbishment maintenance works of 1000M3/hour brackish water
    desalination plant located at Deir Al Balah municipality.

10. Supply to PWA stores critical electrical and mechanical spare parts and materials required for periodic
    repairs and maintenance of the municipal water plant equipments and installations.

11. Electrical and mechanical refurbishment and upgrading of Rafah main water booster station and
    Bani-Suhaila regional water booster station.

12. Electrical and mechanical upgrading of New water well L173 at Al Qarara municipality.




                                                     - 51 -

                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33512

                                                                                                            35°00'E                               To
                                                                                                                                                Nazareth              35°30'E
          WEST BANK                                                                                                                To Haifa

            AND GAZA

                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                            32°30'N                                                                                                     32°30'N
                                                                                                                                  Yamoun
                RIVERS
                                                                                                        To Haifa                   Ya'bad    Jenin
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                               Kaffeen
                                                                                                                                                  Qabatia
                RAILROADS

                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                         J E N I N

                NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,                                                                                                                            T U B A S
                                                                                                    To Netanya      TULKARM
                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                                            Anapta                            Tubas
                                                                                                                    Tulkarm
                JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                             Tammun                            JORDAN
                EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;                                                                                               Mt. 'Eval
                THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                  (940 m)
                                                                                                                                             N A B L U S
                GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                             Qalqilyah     QALQILYAH    AH                    Nablus

                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                          Bet Shean

                                                                                                                        S A L F I T
                                              34°30'E                                                                                 W e s t
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                              Salfit
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                     To
                                                                                                     Ramla                                                                     River
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                    B a n k
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                 To                                                                         nadroJ
                                                                                              Tel Aviv
32°00'N                                                                                 To                                                                                              32°00'N
                                                                                     Tel Aviv                                                      Tall Asur
                                                                                                                                                   (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                           R A M A L L A H                         JERICHO

        M e d i t e r r a n e a n                                                                                             Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Amman
                           S e a                                                                                                                              Jericho
                                                                                                                                           JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Amman
                                                                                                                                            JERUSALEM



                                                                            I S R A E L                                                 Bethlehem
                                                                                                                                      B E T H L E H E M
                                                                  To
                                                                Tel Aviv

                   JABALYA                                                                        To                                                                Dead
                                                                                              Ashqelon

                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                (1,020 m)                              Sea
                                               Jabalya                                                             Hebron
                           Gaza City                                                                                             Qir Arba

        GAZA CITY                                                                                                       H E B R O N                                                     31°30'N

 Gaza                Nusejrat
                                                                To
                                    El Bureij               Beersheba
        Deir el Balah                                                                                   Zohar              Yattah

KHAN
YUNIS                                DEIR EL BALAH

                     Khan                                                                                                                                 To
                     Yunis                                                                                                                               Zofar
                                                                                        To
                                                                                     Beersheba

            Rafah
                           RAFAH
               Abu 'Awdah
  To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                          AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0     5    10    15 Kilometers                                                  JORDAN
REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0        5         10        15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                 31°00'N


                                               34°30'E                                                       35°00'E                                                  35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                        APRIL 2005

