Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19168-GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR THE
SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 29, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
West Bank and Gaza Country Management Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 1998)
Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
NIS = US$0.2387
US$1.0 = NIS 4.1887
ECU = US$1.1887
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BG             =      Bethlehem Govemorate
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CC            =       Coordination Comrnittee
CI            =       Capital Investments
CMMS          =       Computerized Maintenance Management System
DANIDA        =       Danish International Development Agency
DFID           =      Department for International Development
EC             =      European Commission
EIB           =       European Investment Bank
ERP            =      Emergency Rehabilitation Project
EIRR          =       Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR           =      Financial Intemal Rate of Return
GAAP                  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GTZ           =       Gesellschaft fMr Technische Zusarmrnenarbeit
HG            =       Hebron Govemorate
ICB           =       International Competitive Bidding
IDA           =       International Development Association (the World Bank Group)
IRR           =       Internal Rate of Retum
iS             =      International Shopping Procedures
LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
MC             =      Performnance-Based Management Contract
MENA           =      Middle East and North Africa Region
MIDP           =      Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MOU                   Memorandum of Understanding
NCB            =      National Competitive Bidding
NIF            =      Not IDA-Financed
NPV            =      Net Present Value
OIF                   Operating Investment Fund
O&M           =       Operation and Maintenance
PA                    Palestinian Authority
PHRD           =      Policy and Human Resources Development
PLO                   Palestine Liberation Organization
PMR                   Project Management Reporting
PMU            =      Project Management Unit
PWA            =      Palestinian Water Authority
RFP            =      Request for Proposal for the MC
SA                    Special Account
SOE           =       Statement of Expenditure
TA            =       Technical Assistance
TF            =       Trust Fund Number
TFC           =       Trust Fund Credit
TFGWB          =      Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (IDA)
UFW                   Unaccounted for Water
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programnme
UNRWA                 United Nations Relief and Works Agency
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
VAT                   Value Added Tax
WBG            =      West Bank and Gaza
WBWD          =       West Bank Water Department (Bulk Water Supplier - Part of PWA)
WSSA          =       Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
Vice President:       Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:     Joseph Saba
Sector Director:      Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader:          Jamnal Saghir



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project Financing Data .............................................................                                               1
A.   Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1.  Project development objective .............................................................2
2.   Key performance indicators .............................................................2
B. Strategic Cotext                                                             ..2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project                                       .         2
2. Main sector issues and strategy                                                   .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                                       .4
C.   Project Description Summary .............................................................5
1.  Project components .............................................................5
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........................................5
3.  Benefits and target population ............................................................5
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................................6
D.   Project Rationale ............................................................8
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................................................8
2.   Major related projects financed by IDA  and/or other development agencies ..................                           9
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .......................................................   10
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..................................................... 10
5.  Value added of IDA  support in this project ..................................,.,.,.,,.,.10
E. Summary Project Analysis                                    ..11
1. Economic .11
2. Financial .12
3. Technical .13
4. Institutional .13
5. Social .13
6. Environmental assessment .14
7. Participatory approach .15
F. Sustainability and Risks.... 15
1. Sustainability .15
2. Critical risks .15
3. Possible controversial aspects.                                                                                         1 6
G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                                                                17
1. Effectiveness Conditions .........................                                                                      17
2. Other ......................... 17
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................... 17
I. Compliance with IDA Poicies .17



Table of Contents (continued)
Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Table A:    Cost Breakdown of the Operating Investment Fund Component
Table B:    Cost Breakdown of the Capital Investment Component
Table C:    Cost Breakdown of the Technical Assistance Component
Annex 4:   Economic Analysis
Annex 5:   Financial Analysis
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A:    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B:    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C:    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:   Performance Standards - Appendix 6 to General Conditions for a Management
Contract for the Provision of Water and Wastewater Service
Annex 8:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9:   Documents in Project File
Annex 10:  Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments
Annex 11:  West Bank and Gaza at a Glance
Map:       IBRD 30052



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
West Bank and Gaza Program
Date: April 29, 1999                                   Team Leader: Jamal Saghir
Country Director: Joseph Saba                          Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: GZ-SF-51564                                Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Sector: Water Supply & Sanitation                      Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan
Project Financing Data    [L] oan    [] Credit   [  Guarantee    [x] Other: Trust Fund Credit out of the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
(TFGWB)
Amount (US$million equivalent): 21.0
Proposed terms:                            []  Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, US Dollars
Grace period (years): 10         []  Standard Variable  []  Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Conmmitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$million):
Source                               Local              Foreign           Total
Local Contribution "                                          6.22                -                 6.22
European Investment Bank (EIB) (ECU 30 million)              14.45               21.24             35.69
TFGWB                                                         6.07               14.93             21.00
Total      26.74               36.17             62.91
Borrower: The Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority (PA)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$million): 2'     2000       2001       2002      2003    2004
Annual    3.0        6.0        6.0       5.0      1.0
Cumulative    3.0        9.0       15.0      20.0    21.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1999
Expected closing date:  June 30, 2003
Implementing Agency: PWA
Contact Person:      Eng. Fadle Ka'wash, Deputy Head
Address:             The Palestinian Water Authority
P.O. Box 891, Ramallah, West Bank
Phone: 972-2-574-7147
Fax: 972-2-574-7148
Electronic mail: fkpwa@planet.edu
1/ Budgetary contributions from the municipal and village councils within Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates.
2/ Any reference to IDA in this document means IDA as Administrator of TFGWB.



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 2        Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1).:
The development objectives of the project are to:
(i)   Improve the sufficiency of water and wastewater services in the Southern Area of the West Bank
and the efficiency of water and wastewater services supply to customers in terms of quality,
quantity and management by building on existing authorities - the Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority (WSSA) and the municipal and village water departments within Bethlehem
Governorate (BG) and Hebron Govemorate (HG).
(ii)   Prepare for and implement an appropriate institutional framework for water and wastewater
service provision including the implementation of a performance-based management contract
(MC) and strengthening regulatory and institutional capacity in the Palestinian Water Authority
(PWA).
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
To measure progress towards achieving the above development objectives, Annex 1 includes the key
performance indicators for the project. The MC also establishes a set of annual performance targets to be
met during project implementation. The extent of progress towards achieving those performance targets
by the Management Contract Operator (Operator) is directly related to the amount of performance
incentive compensation paid to the Operator each year. Annex 7 includes all the performance targets
prescribed by the MC.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex I):
CAS document number: not applicable (NA)  Date of latest CAS discussion: NA
The project is fully consistent with the strategy presented in the paper "A World Bank Group Strategy for
the West Bank and Gaza," which was considered by the Board in May 1998, and calls for restoration of
infrastructure, strengthening institutions, and facilitating private sector involvement in the economy. The
strategy listed the infrastructure gap, including water supply and wastewater disposal, and the lack of
control over natural resources, especially water, among the key constraints to Palestinian economic
growth. As one of its key themes for the World Bank Group's involvement in the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG), the strategy supports the enhancement of the environment for private sector development,
including public-private partnerships in infrastructure development and services.
The proposed project is formulated in the context of the strategic objectives of the World Bank/IDA's
assistance strategy outlined above and would directly contribute to their achievement by:
* Rapidly improving the water and wastewater services in the southern area of the West Bank.
* Providing a framework for the efficient implementation of donor-funded capital investments.
* Laying the basis for a sustainable institutional structure in the future.
* Attracting private sector in the operation and maintenance and management of the sector.
The project would build on the work of the two Emergency Rehabilitation Projects (ERP I and II) and the
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, and complement ongoing works under the Water and
Sanitation Services Project in Gaza and the Bethlehem 2000 Project. The project will play a critical and
catalytic role in maintaining support and cofinancing from donors. Through the involvement of an
internationally experienced private sector water utility operator (Operator), the project will provide
program management capacity that will encourage donor financing to the water and wastewater sector in
the southern area of the West Bank.



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect  Page 3                 Project Appraisal Document
2. Main sector issues and strategy:
The ongoing IDA Water Sector Review has revealed that without substantial investment and further
institutional strengthening, the delivery of safe water to the population of the West Bank will continue to
be less than acceptable. As part of the 1998-2000 Palestinian Development Plan,' the PWA and the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation have identified the most pressing sector issues, listed
below, and have formulated an overall strategy to address them:
*  Historical underinvestment in the sector has resulted in a lack of piped water to approximately one-
third of the Palestinian population in the West Bank, especially in rural areas. Sewage collection and
treatment systems are critically lacking in the Palestinian territories.
*  Per capita availability of conventional water resources (surface water and groundwater) in the WBG
is very low - the lowest in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, only 103
m3/capita/year, compared to 375 m3/capita/year in Israel; 170 m3/capita/year in Jordan; 1200
m3/capita/year in Lebanon; and an average of 1,250 m3/capita/year for the whole MENA region. Per
capita municipal consumption (after losses) is less than 50 liters/day.
*  Natural water resources are under threat from contamination by chlorides (salinity), by nitrates (from
sewage and agricultural fertilizers), and by other chemicals from irrigation drainage and industrial
and municipal effluents.
*  Very high levels of losses in the West Bank (unaccounted for water, UFW) - around 50 percent - are
the result of poor construction, substandard materials, the corrosive environment, inadequate
maintenance, illegal connections, and inadequate metering.
*  Intermittent service, highly variable pressure, and inadequate pressure zoning result in regular and
severe stress on the system and frequent pipe bursts.
*  Tariffs are inadequate to recover costs, and revenue collection efficiency is poor.
*  Regional management of the water sector is fragmented among municipal water departments, village
councils, the West Bank Water Department (WBWD), and WSSA. This fragmentation is
incompatible with efficient service delivery and the integrated management of the limited
groundwater resources.
The Palestinian Authority (PA) strategy to address the above issues is as follows:
*  PWA has formulated plans to extend water networks, particularly in unserved rural areas where
water shortages are particularly acute.  This will be done in cooperation with the relevant
municipalities and village councils.  Refugee camps will also receive special attention, in
coordination with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA).
*  New wells are being drilled to alleviate the shortage of bulk water supplies, and existing wells that
supply municipal water are being upgraded.
*  Investments in reducing UFW, and thereby increasing the amount of water utilized, will alleviate
over-extraction of groundwater aquifers.
*  PWA is in the process of instituting several strategies to minimize UFW, including improving
metering and billing, identifying illegal connections, improving leak detection and repair, and
preparing network maps.
1/ Infrastructure remains a top priority in the 1999-2003 Palestinian Development Plan (January 1999) and as well
the fostering of an enabling environment for private sector development. Water and wastewater are the top
priorities. In the West Bank, emphasis is given to drilling new wells to provide new water resources, followed by
provision of water networks, sewerage collection systems and treatment, and institutional building programs.



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 4           Project Appraisal Document
*  Expanding the sewerage network will lessen contamination of groundwater from  sewage and
improve the environmental quality in urban areas.
*  On the policy framework for the sector, PWA has completed a Strategy for Water Management in
Palestine as well as a drafting the "Water Rules." The Strategy was submitted to President Arafat for
signature while the draft Water Rules were submitted to the Palestinian Legislative Council for
review before final approval.
*  PWA has recently completed a tariff reform study which will be the basis for formulating a
framework for tariff reform and cost recovery.
*  PWA is in the process of building up its technical, managerial and regulatory capacity and in
carrying out an institutional reform that will separate policy and regulatory functions from service
functions. Water production and distribution will increasingly be entrusted to regional water and
wastewater utilities/companies. Regional management of the sector will be consolidated within
those utilities, thereby decreasing the current level of management fragmentation.
To implement the above strategy, the PWA has negotiated financial assistance from IDA and other
donors for technical assistance and capital investment projects. (refer D.2).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will limit its focus to priority sector issues as set out by PWA and which can be addressed
during the 4-year implementation period. The focus will be on the southern area of the West Bank (the
Governorates of Bethlehem and Hebron), where the need for water and wastewater services and
institution restructuring are particularly acute, as donor participation in the past has been focused more
on the northern part of the West Bank. It is expected, however, that the institutional and management
reforms supported by the project will lay the groundwork for further improvements beyond the four
years. The project addresses the following:
*  Depressed service efficiency, through increased participation of the private sector in the
management and delivery of water and sewerage services in the project area. The private sector
Operator for the service area will be required to improve service delivery according to prescribed
performance targets built into the management contract.
*  High UFW, through implementation by the Operator of a systematic service improvement program
of network rehabilitation, measures to improve metering and billing, leak detection and repair, and
accounting practices.
*  Lack of piped water supply to rural communities and inadequate supply elsewhere, through
investments to extend networks to those communities and to augment bulk water supply capacity.
*  Improving the legal framework for the sector through the approval of the Water Rules.
*  Inadequate tariffs, through a program/framework for tariff reform and cost recovery.



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project  Page 5                 Proiect Appraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown).*
Component                    Category   Indicative Costs   % of    IDA       % of
including    Total  financing    IDA
contingencies          (US$M)  financing
(US$M)
Management Contract (MC)                   Management
To finance:
(i) the Management Contract fixed fees for key                8.00 '      13       8.00       38
staff of the Operator to supply services and
management; and
(ii) the performance incentive fees based upon                2.00         3       2.00       10
the attainment of specific performance targets
built into the management contract.
Operating Investment Fund (OIF)              Physical        10.00        16      10.00       48
To fmance essential operations and
maintenance expenditures not covered by the
revenues collected which are required to
achieve the yearly performance targets in the
management contract.
Capital Investments (CI)                     Physical        39.34 21     62
To finance design, implementation and
supervision of investments in system
rehabilitation and improvements such as source
development, bulk transmission mains,
distribution systems restructuring/
rehabilitation; and investments in rural water
supply.
Technical Assistance (TA)                   Institution       3.57         6       1.00       4
Supports developing institutional capacity  building and
within PWA; establishment of a Project       project
Management Unit (PMU); training; and       management
measures to monitor and audit the Operator's
performance.
Total      62.91        100     21.00       100
1/ Amount represents maximum funds available for this component.
2/ Financed in parallel by EIB under the umbrella of the project.
Note: Percentages are rounded up.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project seeks: to support the overall water and wastewater strategy of the PWA to build technical
and managerial capacity; to develop a framework for tariff reform; to lay down the ground to encourage
private sector involvement in the management and operation of the sector; and to assist in the creation of
one (or possibly two) regional water and wastewater utility(ies) in the southem area of the West Bank
and hence consolidate regional management of the sector and ensure long term sustainability.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  Improved efficiency  of the distribution  system  through  leakage management and network
rehabilitation.
*  Improved operational and distribution efficiency will result in higher revenue generation and greater
cost recovery.



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    PaQe 6        Project Appraisal Document
*  Improved water quality (in terms of disinfection) and more regular supply to customers with fewer
breaks in service.
*  Enhanced private sector participation in the delivery of water and wastewater services.
* Improved planning, project design, procurement and implementation.
*  Extension of water delivery to currently unserved rural areas (Yatta and Dura Villages), which will
result in access to piped water at lower prices than currently being paid for water from vendors and in
reduced health risks.
*  Supports the priority Bethlehem 2000 Project.
Target Population: the entire population within the service areas under the project (estimated at around
450,000) will benefit from this project. Low income households and rural communities especially will
benefit from access to reliable piped water supplies at much lower prices than charged by vendors.
These households will also experience health and environmental benefits from improved access to water
and wastewater services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agency: PWA
Project Coordination:
* The PWA will have overall responsibility for project coordination.
*  Under the TA component of the project, long- and short-term consultants, including a Project
Manager, engineers, coordinators, accountant(s), independent technical and financial auditors,
equipment and vehicles would be provided to establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) and to
facilitate effective monitoring and implementation of the project. The Project Manager will report
directly to the PWA and will be responsible for following the day-to-day project activities and
coordination with the Operator. The Project Manager will also be responsible for monitoring
performance indicators during the implementation period.
*  During the implementation of the MC, the Operator will have separate scope of services and
performance targets for the Bethlehem and Hebron Govemorates. In the BG, the Operator will
assume full responsibility for the management, operations and maintenance of water and wastewater
services. While in the HG, the Operator will provide service support and advice with respect to the
management, operations and maintenance of water and wastewater services. Authority for setting
tariffs in both Governorates will remain with the PWA.
*  The Operator, as part of the Services under the MC, will have responsibility, on behalf of PWA, to
manage the OIF, to procure goods, works and services in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines and to enter into contracts. The Coordination Committee (CC) chaired by PWA will
approve the annual procurement plan for the use of the OIF as prepared by the Operator. The
Operator's activities will be subject to an annual independent technical and financial audit to monitor
performance and determine the annual amount of performance incentive compensation based on
achievement of the performance standards as described in the MC.
*  Other works, in addition to EIB's, will be carried out under a parallel program by other donors,
including USAID and DFID. PWA through the PMU will ensure coordination of all programs. The
Operator, who is contractually responsible for operations and maintaining the water and wastewater
services, will accordingly have a special role. This role is defined in more detail in the management
contract, which specifies the arrangements for coordination and consultation between the Operator
and PWA with respect to the CI component.
Project oversight and policy guidance: The CC will be responsible for overseeing and guiding the
activities of the Operator. The CC could subsequently become the Board of future regional utilities.



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 7        Proiect Appraisal Document
This comrnittee would be chaired by PWA with representation from WSSA, the municipality of Hebron,
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Housing, Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation, the private sector and other stakeholders.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: An assessment of PWA's financial
management system in accordance with IDA's guidelines was carried out by a qualified consulting firm.
The review was cleared by the assigned Financial Management Specialist. The assessment covered
PWA's financial management system (budgeting, accounting, intemal control, auditing and reporting)
and its equipment and staffing. Another assessment of PWA's capacity to implement procurement under
the project was also carried out in accordance with LACI requirements and was cleared by the Regional
Senior Procurement Specialist. During negotiations agreement was reached on a time-bound action plan
to bring the financial management capabilities of PWA to compliance with IDA's requirements prior to
Board Presentation. It was also agreed that the project would comply with LACI's Quarterly Project
Management Reporting (PMR) requirements prior to July 1, 2000. The assessment reports along with
the action plans are in the Project File (Annex 9).
The PMU would be staffed with experienced financial/accounting staff as well as a procurement
specialist, funded under the project, to manage project accounts and procurement. PWA, through the
PMU and with funding from TA, would establish and maintain project accounts and adequate control
procedures that would facilitate timely and transparent reporting. These accounts would be audited each
fiscal year in accordance with IDA guidelines by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. PWA would
ensure that all project accounts are furnished to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year in
such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request.
Special Accounts: To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, PWA will open a Special
Account (SA) at a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, under terms satisfactory to IDA. It would be
ensured that PWA accounting, internal auditing and financial management systems meet the minimum
standards required for IDA. Administrative details of the SA are included in Annex 6. Disbursements
from the TFWBG Credit would be gradually phased in to the quarterly PMR based disbursements
procedure during the first year of project implementation when the new computerized accounting and
financial management system in place is fully tested.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The PMU would be responsible for monitoring progress
against agreed performance indicators specified in Annex 1. The Operator would furnish the PMU with
bi-monthly and annual reports summarizing the management contract operations and the utilization of
project funds. The PMU would prepare and provide to IDA, on a semi-annual basis, consolidated reports
on project implementation progress covering: (i) ptojections for project financing and implementation;
(ii) status of project finances and procurement of goods and works; (iii) status of implementation of the
service improvement program under the management contract, the capital investment and technical
assistance; (iv) statement of income and expenditure for the current and previous semester; and (v)
monthly cash flow projections for the next six months. These reports would be submitted to IDA within
one month of the end of the relevant semester, and would provide the basis for monitoring the progress of
the project. The PMU would prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-
Term Review, scheduled for the second quarter of the year 2001. The PMU will also prepare and submit
an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to IDA within six months of the Closing Date of the
TFWBG Credit. An Early Implementation Assessment will be undertaken in the first year of
implementation.



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 8         Proiect Appraisal Document
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
There are a number of management options for the water and waste water sector available to the PA
authorities. The advantages offered by private sector participation are recognized by PA and Palestinian
professionals, but full privatization - divestiture and private investment - is considered unlikely to be
acceptable to the PA that has only recently been empowered to manage their resources; and also unlikely
to appeal to investors under present conditions in the region. A concession (20-25 years) involves a long-
term commitment by both parties and even an affermage (lease) contract (10-12 years) may not be
attractive to the private sector because of the uncertain business climate, poor condition of existing
facilities, and inadequate revenues.
Similar conditions in the newly autonomous area of Gaza prompted the PA in 1995 to request urgent
assistance from IDA. In close cooperation with the PWA, a project was prepared that enlisted the
expertise of an internationally experienced water utility operator to work with local municipalities,
village councils and the PWA over a period of four years to improve management of the services. The
Project was approved in July 1996 and work commenced in September, 1996. After nearly two and a
half years, progress has been very satisfactory and substantial improvements are evident - over 3,700 km
of pipe has been surveyed for leaks and 11,000 illegal connections identified; almost 14,000 service
connections have been replaced, over 7,000 meters repaired and a total of over 27,000 replaced; UFW
has been reduced in year one from 48 percent to 44 percent and to less than 40 percent in year two;
reliable disinfection (97 percent of water samples have positive chlorine residual); increased revenue,
such that the total collected in 1997 was NIS 30,703,000, compared with NIS 16,954,967 collected in
1996 and NIS 1,124,437 in 1995.
Proposed Solution for Southern Area of the West Bank. In order to improve the water and
wastewater services rapidly; to provide a framework for the efficient implementation of donor-funded
capital investments; and to lay the basis for a more appropriate institutional structure in the future, a
performance-based management contract with an internationally experienced water utility operator is
proposed for the southern area of the West Bank, along similar lines to that in Gaza (with more
responsibility in Bethlehem Governorate - see Annex 7), but tailored to the context of the West Bank and
taking into account Gaza's experience so far. It is proposed that one MC will be let but with discrete
scope of work and performance targets for the Bethlehem and the Hebron Governorates to accommodate
the existing institutional setup.
The primary advantage of this approach is its flexibility and low level of risk to the PWA and
municipalities and its demonstrated success in Gaza. No assets, financing, or major policy decisions are
given up by the PWA or municipalities, the contract is relatively short-term, and the PWA will retain
access to donors for financing of priority needs that will be defined under the project. Interest of private
utility operators is encouraged since they will not be required to invest their own funds in a high-risk
business environment. As a result of this low risk and flexibility, this solution is appealing to both the
PWA and private sector operator, especially if increased investor involvement is planned and indicated
for the future.
Phases of the Strategy. Proceeding beyond the initial phase (the 4-year performance-based management
contract), however, is needed to ensure long-term sustainability of the sector. A number of options
would be open to the PWA after the expiration of the MC. The latter could be extended or services could
be contracted out under a longer-term lease or concession arrangement, or the regional water and
wastewater utility(ies) could operate as a publicly-owned autonomous company. The final status
arrangements should, however, be studied and discussed with the PWA at an early stage so that a definite
plan is agreed well before the expiration of the MC (e.g., by end of year 2).



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect  Page 9                   Proiect Appraisal Document
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).-
IDA-financed Projects
Sector Issue                        Project                  Latest Supervision Ratings
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA-fnanced proiects under
implementation
Inadequate quality, quantity, and    * Water and Sanitation Services      S                S
management of water and          Project in Gaza (TF26056)
sanitation services in Gaza.
* ERP I                                  S                S
* ERP II                                 S                S
* MIDP                                   S                S
*Bethlehem 2000                          S                S
Misc. IDA-financed studies
Identify sector issues with      * Water Sector Review (being            NA               NA
recommendation to ensure sector    finalized)
sustainability.                  . Water Sector Strategic                NA               NA
Planning/Priority Investment Study
(funded by the Technical Assistance
Trust Fund) (TF34117)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory),
NA (Not Applicable)
_Other development agency-financed projects
Sector Issue          Donor/Agency                 Project                     Status
Underinvestment in sector     Denmark/        * Water Sector Strategic            On-going, albeit
DANIDA;        Planning/Priority Investment Study  after initial delays
UTNDP
.imited and vulnerable water  U.S.JUSAID     . Well drilling, aquifer studies and  On-going
resources, low availability    Germany/GTZ   monitoring
Low efficiency of service     France          . Preparation of network maps;      On-going
delivery                                      improving metering and leak detection
and repair
Inadequate water supply        U.S.JUSAID     * Installation of new bulk supply    On-going
facilities
* Water resources program
Contamination of water         EC, UNDP,      * Sewerage improvements              On-going
resources                      Germany
Low cost recovery              Norway         * Tariff Study for WBG               Completed. Tariff
reform framework
in the works.
Legal and institutional reform  Norway        * Preparation of water strategy; Water   On-going
Rules; and institutional and regulatory
setup for PWA.
Fragmented institutional       GTZ            * Hebron Water Department            Planned
responsibility                                strengthening
High UFW                       French         . Network Rehabilitation in the West   On-going
Protocol       Bank



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project   Page 10         Project Appraisal Document
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.
The satisfactory implementation of the Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza since the fall of
1996 has provided significant insight into the advantages and disadvantages of using a management
contract to improve water and wastewater services. The positive experience of the project so far has
encouraged the PWA and IDA to consider similar arrangements in other areas, particularly the southern
West Bank.
Some of the lessons learned from the preparation and early implementation of the Gaza project have
been:
* the importance of project preparation in close collaboration and coordination with the PWA, local
municipalities, and village councils and other stakeholders to ensure ownership;
*  the need for authority of the operator to direct the activities of employees;
* the full cooperation of the authorities;
* the design of the management contract which includes payments for a fixed fee plus incentive fees on
the basis of specific performance targets built into the contract; and
* the importance of minimizing the fragmentation of the various institutions involved in water and
wastewater services.
Accordingly, this project is designed to reflect the above.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* President Arafat and the PA have formally requested this project and have asked for IDA's assistance
for its preparation.
* PWA and concerned municipalities have signed a Memorandum of Understanding consolidating
consensus building among stakeholders and reaffirming their support of the project concept, scope
and description, including a private sector performance-based management contract operator, and
their willingness to move ahead, and maintain their expenditure budgets during the implementation
of the management contract.
* The Project Manager and the Counterpart Team appointed by PWA have actively participated in the
design and processing of the performance-based Management Contract and other project
components;
* PWA has prequalified nine firms with wide international representation in September 1998, under
ICB procedures to submit proposal for the MC.
* PWA issued the Request for Proposals for the MC on October 23, 1998. A pre-bid meeting was held
up at PWA offices in the West Bank on November 15, 1998 attended by all prequalified bidders.
Subsequently, a private sector Operator was selected, and the MC was initialed with the selected
Operator.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
Value added of IDA's support is evident in a number of respects: (a) based on the World Bank/IDA's
broad international experience with private participation in infrastructure and the water and wastewater
sectors in particular, IDA is well positioned to advise the PA on private sector participation in general,
and the specific transaction structure adopted; (b) IDA helped mobilize trust funds (PHRD) for advisors,
draft terms of reference and advise on contractual and design issues related to the management contract;
(c) IDA helped clarify and acted as a catalyst for various policy decisions; (d) application of IDA
procurement procedures (ICB) helped assure potential operators of standards of transparency, while a
competitive procedure helped assure that the PWA select the most beneficial offer; and (e) IDA has also
helped mobilize donors to cofinance the project.



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation ImDrovement Proiect    Page 1 1       Proiect Aopraisal Document
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
The cost-benefit analysis uses a with and without project methodology. It estimates a net present value
(NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR), in both financial and economic terms, for the pro-forma regional
utilities of Bethlehem and Hebron. The analysis evaluates the NPVs and MRRs for Management Contract
plus Operating Investment Fund components individually for both utilities. The period of analysis is ten
years. The discount rate used is 10%, which is IDA's normal hurdle rate for water and wastewater
projects. The Base Case analyses are in 1998 NIS. Only certain portions of the CI component of the
project are included in the analysis (see Annex 4 for rationale).
The following table shows the estimated financial and economic net present values and internal rates of
return for the Base Case scenarios.
Net Present Value and Rate of Return for Management Contract
and Operat  Investmnent Fd Components (NIS 000)
Component                   Govemnorate        Financial            Economic
NPV    FIRR _       NPV    EIRR%
Management Contract +       Bethlehem       11,460     27        13,103     31
Operating Investment Fund    Hebron          4,200     15         6,105     18
The key assumptions in the Base Case models are: (i) the Operator's performance (leading to increased
water sold, lower energy costs and increased operational efficiency); (ii) increases in bulk water from the
CI; (iii) the number of new customers added during the project; (iv) the cost of bulk water from Israel;
and (v) current and projected household water consumption.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values. For the Management Contract plus Operating Investment
Fund components, a sensitivity analysis produced the following results.
Seusitivity Analysis (MC+OIF)
Description                        PAD Risk  Bethlehem    Hebron
Modeled*   EIRR (%)  E_lR (%o
No decrease in UFW (Base Case = decrease from 49 to 25 percent)    1,2,4  23        7
Energy savings limited to 10% (Base Case = 20%)             1,2,4        27         13
Reverting back to pre-management contract UFW after the life of  3       28         13
the project.
Tariff reduction to NIS 3.00/m3                               6          26         16
Investment Costs increase by 20%                                         21         14
Difficulty in processing tax exemptions and refunds           5          27         15
20 % increase in bulk water prices from Mekoroth                         23         6
* See Section F.
Switching values were also estimated for these components and the results are shown in the table below.
Switching Values (MC+OIF)            l          l
Description                   Bethlehem   M Hebron-
By what percentage would the investment costs have  82%        42%
to escalate in order to reduce the NPV to zero?
By what percentage would the bulk water price have  15%         5%
to increase each year to reduce the NPV to zero?
Fiscal Impact. Repayment of the TFGWB credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance of
PA. Municipalities in the Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates will contribute about USD 6.22 million
or 10 percent of the total project cost. This project is not expected to impose any other financial burden
on the Governorates. The TFGWB credit will be repaid in 40 years with a ten-year grace period. The
interest rate is 0.75 percent on the disbursed balance, and a commitment fee of 0.50 may be charged on



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 12            Project Appraisal Document
the undisbursed balance.  The average annual debt service over 40 years (principal repayment,
commitment fee and interest) is estimated at US$630,000. The EIB loan has a 1.64 percent annual
interest rate. The average annual debt service over 20 years (principal repayment, and interest) is
estimated at US$2.1 million.
The total amount borrowed from the TFGVWB and the EIB for this project, over the period 1999 to 2001,
represents about: (i) 8 percent of planned water and sanitation investment; and (ii) about 2 percent of the
total planned development outlay for the period. The project's total fiscal impact is estimated at
US$73 million. As this represents about 2 percent of the 1997 (latest figure available) estimated GDP for
the West Bank and Gaza, the project is not considered to present a significant fiscal burden.
A full discussion of the economic analysis and fiscal impact is contained in Annex 4 and further
supported by documents in the Project File.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
In the Base Year for the financial models (1998), both the Bethlehem and Hebron pro-forma utilities lost
substantial money from operations (about NIS 3.0 million in Bethlehem and NIS 4.3 million in Hebron,
or US$712,000 and US$1.0 million, respectively). Despite the revenue shortfalls, both utilities are able
to continue operations through a combination of partial payments for bulk water and energy and, in the
case of Hebron, through a cross-subsidy from other municipal activities. However, IDA and the PWA
have agreed under the policy framework for this project that the financial health of the proposed regional
utilities in Bethlehem and Hebron must be restored as quickly as possible. Therefore, IDA has developed
a Base Case Financial model for each utility that shows them covering cash expenses from revenues by
2001. Results are summarized in the following tables.
Bethlehem Regional Water and Sanitation Utility
Pro-forma Base Case Financial Model Projections
(1998 NIS 000)
_ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _      1998-0t00- 0      f0    ;000j 5f00i0000    : l g   .   1999:   0  2O000   2 001l   2002
Revenues                              8,428     9,745    11,303   12,442   13,373
Operating Expenses*                  11,414    11,777    12,114   12,176   12,108
Net Income                           (2,986)   (2,032)     (811)      266    1,266
Net Income (Loss) as % of Sales        (35)       (21)       (7)        2 1     10
* Total Costs excluding depreciation and interest.
Hebron Regional Water and Sanitation Utility
Pro-forma Base Case Financial Model Projections
(1998 NIS 00Q)        __    _  ___   ___
__________________________   _    1998      16 2         6      20000  20 t0   2002
Revenues                             12,642    16,942    19,197   20,641   21,679
Operating Expenses*                  16,958    19660    20,107   20,017   19,649
Net Income                           (4,315)   (2,718)     (910)      624    2,030
Net Income (Loss) as % of Sales        (34)       (16)       (5)        3        9
* Total Costs excluding depreciation and interest.
Improvements in financial performance are made possible through a combination of: (i) increased water
sales (brought about by increases in bulk water supplies and reductions in unaccounted for water); (ii) the
addition of new customers; and (iii) more efficient operations (brought about under the management
contract). Tariffs and connection fees remain constant in the Base Case models.
Assumptions. In the Base Case models, assumptions are made concerning existing and end-of- project
household water consumption levels, connection fees, reductions in UFW and energy consumption
achieved by the private sector Operator, increase in bulk water from the OIF and a part of the CIP, and
the number of new water and sewer customers. Charges for bulk water bought from Israel are assumed to



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project   Page 13        Project Appraisal Document
remain constant on a per m3 basis and the amount purchased is also held constant. All assumptions are
fully described in Annex 5.
Coordination with Public Expenditure Review. Expansion and strengthening of the water and
sanitation delivery systems in the West Bank is a priority recommendation in the latest Public
Expenditure Review (dated February 25, 1999) done by IDA. The PER also supports the creation of
regional water and sanitation corporations and an increase in private sector participation, including the
new utilities proposed for Bethlehem and Hebron Govemorates. The project's various components are
also included in the Palestinian Development Plan 1999 to 2003, published in January 1999.
3. Technical:
The project has been designed to be appropriate to the Palestinian's needs and technical standards. As
the Palestinians do not yet have established standards, internationally accepted standards have generally
been adopted. Technical design of major investments are in keeping with the USAID-financed
masterplan studies. Experience elsewhere in the West Bank, most notably at the Jerusalem Water
Undertaking - Ramallah District, conclusively demonstrates the appropriateness of these standards and
the ability of the Palestinians, given the right institutional structure and an appropriate incentive
structure, to deliver quality and financially viable water and wastewater services. Investment cost
estimates for the Operating Investment Fund are based on experience in Gaza and are considered reliable,
but quantities will need to be adjusted in accordance with experience 'on the ground' and the
procurement plan of the Operator. Investment cost estimates are based on feasibility level estimates with
appropriate allowance made for physical and price contingencies.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The PLO for the benefit of the PA would be the Borrower while the responsibility for implementation of
the project would rest with the PWA. The PLO would enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with the PA
pursuant to which: (a) the PLO will make the borrowed funds available to the PWA through the PA;
(b) the PA will repay the funds to IDA if requested by the PLO to do so; and (c) the PA will cause the
PWA to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the TFC Agreement.
b. Project management:
-  Institutional capacity of the PWA, WSSA and the water departments of the municipalities is weak.
Major efforts of the Operator will be to train staff.
*  Project scope is another issue. The proposed project will focus on urgent rehabilitation and
extension sub-projects aiming at reducing UFW and improving efficiency. Given the status of
project preparation and weak institutional capability, it was not possible to identify in detail all
investments needed in the next four years. It is not proposed to include major development projects
(e.g., wastewater treatment plant) which could be implemented in separate projects.
*  Based on the Gaza project experience and a recent similar operation in Jordan, and to ensure quality
at entry, sequencing selection of the MC with Board presentation was carefully addressed to
minimize procurement risks. The management contract was selected through ICB. Preparation and
issuance of request for proposals was done prior to appraisal; initialing the contract with the Operator
was a condition of Board Presentation; and signature of the MC would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
*  Donors' support for the project is through both parallel cofinancing and a parallel project (see section
5 below). The project has been coordinated with current work being funded by outside donors.
5. Social:
The project does not include any resettlement. Indigenous people is a marginal issue that is addressed
under a proposed parallel project to be supported by the UK Department for International Development



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 14       Project Appraisal Document
(DFID). Small remote communities, including Bedouin camps, in areas of the project area under Israeli
control, are marginalized by lack of access to adequate water supplies and disruption of traditional water
harvesting and subsistence agriculture. The project is providing piped water supplies to two groupings of
village but is unable to finance improvements in other smaller and more remote communities. The
proposed DFID project will assist with both individual and communal facilities of non-piped water
supply and sanitation improvements. Women are particularly disadvantaged by water shortages and
unreliability, in urban areas because of disruption to household activities, and in rural areas because of
time spent collecting water. At the request of the Project Team and the PWA, the UK Department for
International Development agreed to carry out a social assessment survey in a representative range of
communities in Hebron and Bethlehem in order to obtain a better understanding of behavior, knowledge
and attitudes related to water and sanitation practices. The survey was subsequently extended to include
non-water network rural communities and in particular three villages tentatively demarcated for piped
water under the EIB co-financed investment component. The results were incorporated in a report on the
Social Assessment Survey - September-October 1998. Findings were incorporated in the project
economic analysis and were a major factor behind DFID's decision in principle to finance a pilot project
of approximately British Pounds 0.5 million to address Small Community Water and Sanitation needs, to
be followed by a larger project based on that experience.
It is clear, however, the PWA is unknown to a majority of the population at large, that communities are
deeply pessimistic about the future, that water and sanitation services are generally considered to be
deficient but that donors should pay for the cost (both capital and recurrent) of improvement. The
project therefore presents an opportunity for the PWA rather than a risk.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [] A   [x] B   []C
a. Major environmental issues:
* Loss of water through inefficient system management, neglected maintenance and deteriorated
condition of infrastructure will, if not corrected, require premature augmentation of supply utilizing
limited unexploited water resources.
* Inadequate wastewater management and limited infrastructure for collection and treatment of
wastewater and septage results in contamination of aquifers, deteriorated surface water quality and
potential health risks.
Other environmental issues:
* Shortage of water is a year-round problem requiring emergency deliveries of expensive water of
uncertain quality by tanker trucks and resulting in increased traffic and road damage.
The proposed project would contribute to improving the environment through improved management of
existing water and sanitation facilities, through increased expenditure on essential O&M, and through a
capital investment program to expand and improve water and sanitation infrastructure. Currently there
are no known project proposals whose implementation would require land acquisition or result in
involuntary resettlement. No known archaeological or historical sites would be affected by rehabilitation
sub-projects, nor does the operating investment components of the project raise any international water
issues. The capital investment activities to be supported comprise rehabilitation, upgrading and extension
of piped water supply and sewerage services in urban areas and water supply improvements in rural
areas. The project does not include new wastewater treatment facilities. The new water supply deep
wells result from extensive hydrogeological studies, will tap the same aquifer as several existing wells,
and have been approved by both Palestinian and Israeli authorities. The project does not include any
component with major environmental impact and will result in significant improvement in environmental
quality through improved water and sanitation services.
Environmental impact will be mitigated by improved O&M of water and sewerage services which will
improve the efficiency of water use and reduce the need for tapping new resources. The adequacy of



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 15             Project Appraisal Document
wastewater in both Bethlehem and Hebron Govemorates was reviewed during project preparation.
Substantial investments by other donors has provided adequate collection systems to accommodate
increased wastewater discharges resulting from this project. Management will be improved by the
Operator but treatment, which is inadequate, is subject to political barriers that are unlikely to be
resolved in the prevailing circumstances.
An Environmental Mitigation and Management Plan has been prepared and agreed upon as part of
Project preparation (see Annex 9).
7. Participatory approach:
All identified stakeholder agencies or bodies were consulted and have signed a memorandum of
understanding with PWA supporting the project. A social assessment in a representative number of
conmmunities provided project information to stakeholders and obtained an indication of community
attitudes and perceptions. The extent of participation particularly with smaller municipalities, however,
was constrained by the political and security volatility in the West Bank during project preparation.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
All municipalities involved in the process have signed a Memorandum of Understanding after extensive
rounds of consultation and consensus building, in which the project concept was discussed in detail and
agreed to. Several meetings were held with key stakeholders including the Mayor of Bethlehem, the
Mayor of Hebron and members of the Municipal Council.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Local NGOs participated in the preparation of the rural water supply component and the parallel small
communities projects in preparation by DFID.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*  Project sustainability will depend uponfirst having continued private sector management of water
and sanitation services in project area; second, assuring that the Operator will have adequate
financial resources to carry out his mandate; third, there being adequate supplies of bulk water; and
fourth the Operator needs to work within a flexible legal environment (labor and procurement
regulations, construction permits, etc.).
*  Assurances were sought from the PA that the final status arrangements for institutional setup should
be studied and discussed among the PA and its institutions at an early stage so that a definite plan is
agreed well before the expiration of the management contract (e.g., by end of year 2).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk               Risk Minimnization Measure
Rating
1. Non-performance of the Private Operator  N    Operator was selected by a rigorous bidding process
either as result of poor selection, or lack of  under ICB and will work according to defined quantified
cooperation of local government and PWA.        performance target and will be compensated partly by a
performance incentive fee.
2. Difficulty to achieve targets in Hebron  S    Close monitoring of implementation of the services in
where Operator does not have direct day-to-     Hebron area and continuous policy dialogue.
day management responsibility.



West Bank and Gaza
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project  Page 16                      Project Appraisal Document
Risk                     Risk                 Risk Minimization Measure
Rating_
3. Operator's contract is finished after 4 years,   M    Allow extension of the MC, having the Operator
but PA not able to move forward to a more          concentrate on financial building measures and
substantive private sector involvement.            performance targets or increase Technical Assistance at
the mid-term review. Accelerate the creation of the
regional utility(ies).
4. Administrative difficulties to procure goods    M    The MC includes provision that management and
and. works necessary to implement                  procurement of goods, works and services under the OIF
rehabilitation investment and service              would be the responsibility of the Operator on behalf of
improvement program by the Operator to             PWA.
improve service.
5. Delays and/or difficulties in processing tax  S    Although the VAT issue has been raised at the highest
and duty exemptions and refund of VAT (by          levels, it remains a serious issue, possibly crimping
PA)                                                implementation. The VAT issues should be resolved by
MOF through creation of revolving fund.
6. Lack of agreement on a program of cost     S    Analysis and discussion will be carried out. Bulk water
recovery and time frame for pricing reform.        pricing proposals may enable pricing issue to be
addressed in stages.
7. Delay in project implementation. Perrmits  M    Close follow up of Project Management Team/PWA of
not issued for Investment Projects                 project implementation. Early application for permits.
8. Breakdown of peace process and            M    All projects in WBG face political risks. The Peace
deterioration of Palestinian/Israeli dialogue.     Process has crossed significant milestones so far,
nevertheless disruptions due to political events especially
in Hebron can be expected from time to time and could
delay implementation.
Overall Risk Rating   M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                    Type of  Risk             Risk Minimiization Measure
Risk   Rating
1. Cost recovery and tariff restructuring may  G       S    A tariff study has been completed with
not be able to be implemented.                              recornmendations on a policy of full cost
recovery and tariff reformn. Implementation of
new tariff structure is being discussed.
2. Political opposition to a private operator.  G/S   M    Beneficiary municipalities have signed a MOU
after rounds of consensus building. During
supervision the task team will continue
dialogues with the municipalities involved.
Experience from a similar project in Gaza has
been positive.
3. Selection of PWA and local staff by the    M       M    Information campaign and consultation will be
operator: Some employees may oppose to be                   held.
seconded or transferred to the operator.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



West Bank and Gaza
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Paae 17      Proiect Appraisal Document
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  The execution of the Subsidiary Agreement between the PLO and PA, satisfactory to IDA.
* The legal opinion by H.E. the Minister of Justice required to be furnished to IDA under Section
12.02 of the General Conditions that the Trust Fund Credit Agreement (TFCA) has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with
its terms. The legal opinion shall also state that the Subsidiary Agreement and the Management
Contract have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
parties thereto, and are legally binding upon them, in accordance with their terms.
2. Other:
* PWA will establish and operate the Special Account in accordance with Schedule 5 of the TFCA.
* PWA will carry out Environmental Mitigation and Management in accordance with the terms of the
Environmental Management Plan.
* PWA will carry out Mid-Term Review and Progress Reports in accordance with Schedule 4 of the
TFCA.
- PWA to carry out an agreed-to time bound action plan for strengthening of the financial management
systems in order to enable it, not later than July 1, 2000, to produce quarterly project management
reports acceptable to IDA for basis of LACI disbursements (reference Section 4.02(a) of the TFCA).
* PA to review with IDA, not later than December 30. 2001, proposals for continued management of
the water and sanitation services in the southern area of the West Bank following the completion of
the MC, including the various options of public sector management and private sector participation.
3 As agreed during Negotiations and recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations, PWA should provide
IDA not later than September 1. 1999. with a Cost Recovery Plan and framework for tariff reform
including an action plan for implementation
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] All engineering designs are related to the co-financed component by EIB. Projects have been
screened and selected, arrangements agreed for preparation of engineering designs; and the loan
negotiated between EMB and the PA is effective.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan was reviewed and revised during appraisal and agreed upon during
negotiations. It is realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x] The Operator is selected and the MC initialed between PWA and the selected Operator.
I. Compliance with IDA Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
 '>Aav?'
Jamal Saghir, Team Leader, MNSID
Je -CVude Villiard, Sector Director, MvNSID
\I. 27
Joseph Saba, Country Director, MNCWG



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                       Annex 1
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect  Paae 18                           Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 1
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Project Design Summary
l. Restore infrastructure,                                                         Favorable macroecononuc
strengthen institutions, and                                                       conditions; successful
facilitate private-sector                                                          continuation of the peace
involvement in the economy.                                                        process.
I . Improve sufficiency and     1.1 The annual performance  1.1  Periodic project  Political, social and
efficiency of water and        targets prescribed in the   monitoring reports.     economic stability continues.
wastewater services in the     MC. The extent of progress   These reports will be
southern area of the West      towards achieving these     audited by an           Investment supported by
Bank; prepare and implement    annual performance targets   independent technical  donor cofinancing and
an appropriate institutional   is directly related to the  and financial auditors for  private capital.
framework for water and        amount of performance       compliance. IDA will
wastewater service provision;  incentive compensation paid  also review these reports.
and build regulatory and       to the Operator each year.
institutional capacity.
I. Improved management of  (For annual breakdown of the    1.1  Project monitoring   Private Operator given
water and wastewater       indicators below, refer to Annex  reports. These reports    responsibility for: (a)
services in the project area.    7)                        will be audited by an   management (O&M) service
1.1  Increase Accounted for    independent technical   delivery; and (b)
Water to I  Incre  Acounted  B and financial auditors for  identification, procurement,
Water to 75% in both BG   compliance. IDA will   management and supervision
and HG.                 also review these reports.  of rehabilitation investment.
1.2  Improve Constancy of                              Operator brings all necessary
Supply of piped water for                        skills to manage the system.
all customers to 70% of
month.                                           Tariffs are adjusted.
1.3  Increase operating ratio to                       Procurement decisions not
1.5 and 1.3 in BG and                            delayed and Operator fully
HG, respectively.                                able to procure goods, works
and services under OIF on
1.4   Reduce electricity usage                         behalf of PWA.
per unit of water
delivered by 20% in BG                           Approval of Consultant
and HG.                                          recommendations.
2. Rehabilitated water and    2.1   Repair and replace 2,000
wastewater network.               and 4,000 of water
meters in BG and HG,
respectively.
2.2   Replace 3,500 and 5,000
service connections in
BG and HG, respectively.
2.3   Replace 70 and 30 km of
piping in BG and HG,
respectively.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                      Annex 1
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect  Page 19                         Project Appraisal Document
Narrative Summr        -Ke  e me   l           idtora      Moalto     and         Critical Assumptions
3. Strengthened institutional  3.1   Achieving and        3.1  Regular
capacity.                         "Excellent" score rating    Supervision missions and
for Preparation and     PWA/Operator to
Implementation (where    produce semiannual
applicable) of plans and    progress reports.
programs, including
training called for in the
MC.
3.2   Development of plans to
establish a regional water
utility(ies).
3.3  Improved cost recovery.
3.4   Number of staff trained.
.r~c  .o e u...    blputst   det   ea                 -       --                   (Coinponenit: to Oistptts)i---
io        mpo nwwtln    10us:                * coninponentt)t-S
1. Management Contract                                    Inputs will be monitored   Reach agreement on the next
1.1 Management         1.1 US$8.00 million            and evaluated through    step (preferably by end of
Contract Fixed Fee                                project monitoring and   Year 2) after the completion
1.2 Performance        1.2 US$2.00 million            disbursement reports.    of the 4-year management
Incentive                                                                  contract.
Compensation                                                               Continued commitment of
2. Operating Investment     2.1 US$ 10.0 million                                   PWA to implement policy
Fund                                                                               and institution reform
3. Capital Investment       3.1 US$39.34 million                                   measures needed to establish
the regional utilities.
4. Technical Assistance     4.1 US$3.57 million



West Bank and Gaza                                                                     Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Imorovement Proiect    Page 20          Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 2
Southemn Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Project Description
Project Component 1: Management Contract - US$10 million '
1.    The basic goals to be pursued under the Management Contract are to improve the quality and
quantity of water supplied and the management of the water and wastewater systems in Bethlehem and
Hebron Governorates. The Operator will have separate scope of services and performance targets for the
Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates. In the BG, the Operator will assume full responsibility for the
management, operations and maintenance of water and wastewater services. The Operator will also
manage all seconded personnel and associated wages, salaries, and benefits; and administrative facilities and
services necessary to oversee the management and direct the operations of the various water and
wastewater systems including source withdrawal, treatment, pumping, and distribution systems, wastewater
collection, pumping, treatment and disposal. While in the HG, the Operator will provide service support
and advice with respect to the management, operations and maintenance of water and wastewater
services. The Operator will be required to complete the following tasks:
A.    Services to Be Provided in Both the Hebron and Bethlehem Governorates
(i)    Develop following programs to improve Day to Day Operations and Maintenance:
-  Water Quality Sampling and Testing.
-  Safety Condition of the Facilities.
v  Occupational Health and Safety.
-  Emergency Response Plan.
-  Standard Operating Procedures.
-  Operations and Maintenance Manuals.
*  Energy Management Plan.
*  Unregistered Connection.
*  Staff Training and Development/Merit Payments.
*  Wellhead Protection.
*  Wastewater Collection System.
(ii)    Develop following programs to improve the Physical Infrastructure and System
Performance Overall:
* Condition Surveys.
* Improvement to the Facilities and Overall System Performance.
(iii)   Develop following programs to improve Finance and Administration (Billings,
Collection and Customer Service)
* Information Systems - Billings, Collection and Customer Services.
* General Improvements - Billings, Collections, and Customer Service.
(iv)   Capital Investment Program - cooperation only
(v)    Institutional Development
1/ Amount represents maximnum funds available under the Credit.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Imirovement Proiect    Page 21        Proiect Appraisal Document
* Prepare a comprehensive report outlining the steps, management structure, and
regulatory changes required to develop a water and wastewater utility in the Service
Area.
(vi)   Self-monitoring
* Develop and implement a comprehensive field inspection program to collect data
and to demonstrate, to the PWA's satisfaction, that Performance Standards are being
met.
(vii)   New Technologies
* Advise the PWA as to new technologies which may be available to improve the
water and wastewater services in the Service Area.
B.  SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED IN THE BETHLEHEM GOVERNORATE
(i)    Water Operations and Maintenance
* Operations and maintenance of the Water Distribution System to carry out the
pumping and transportation of water, the chlorination of water and the distribution
and supply of drinking water to Customers.
* Operations and maintenance of the municipal well(s) identified.
(ii)    Wastewater Operations and Maintenance
*  Assume full responsibility for the operations and maintenance of the wastewater
Facilities to carry out the collection of wastewater and the pumping and
transportation of wastewater to the receiving bodies.
*  Install service connections, for new Customers, to the wastewater collection system
in accordance with the technical specifications provided to the Operator by the
PWA.
e  Perform all day to day repairs to the wastewater facilities.
*  Manage the chemical treatment of wastewater.
-  Regularly inspect surcharged sewers, identify causes of surcharging, recommend
and, with the approval of the PWA, take corrective measures.
*  Monitor and respond to reports of flow blockages.
*  Maintain wastewater flow meters.
(iii)   Water and Wastewater Operations and Maintenance Procurement
* Procure goods and services for use in day to day operations and maintenance.
(iv)   Implement following programs related to Water and Wastewater Operations
Improvements:
*  Comprehensive water quality monitoring program.
*  Safety Deficiencies Correction Plan.
*  Safety Program.
*  Emergency Response Plan.
*  Energy Management Plan.
*  Unregistered Connections Program.
*  Wellhead protection program.
*  Wastewater collection system programs.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    PaQe 22        Project Appraisal Document
(v)    Water and  Wastewater Maintenance  Improvements - The  Computerized
Maintenance Management System
*  Complete  an  evaluation  of various internationally  available  computerized
maintenance management systems ("CMMS").
*  Recommend to the PWA a preferred CMMS which meets the particular maintenance
needs and circumstances of the PWA and the Facilities in the Bethlehem
Governorate and is cost effective and efficient.
*  Implement the CMMS by performing all functions necessary to make the CMMS
fully operational.
*  Maintain the CMMS by performing ongoing data entry, troubleshooting, performing
back-up functions, making hardware and software upgrades, and providing ongoing
training to Operations Staff.
*  CMMS shall include:
* Preventive maintenance program.
*  Inventory management program to monitor equipment, materials and supplies.
(vi)   Bethlehem Governorate - Billings and Collections
-  Develop a plan for reading all customer meters in the Bethlehem Governorate and,
with the approval of the PWA, implement that plan.
-  Register all Customer meter readings in a computer data base.
*  Develop and implement a program to estimate consumption in circumstances where
metering problems exist.
-  Convert all meter readings to billings to Customers.
-  Identify consumption anomalies in Customer billings.
-  Identify meters which have not been read.
*  Issue bills to Customers bi-monthly on a unified billing period for the Bethlehem
Governorate.
*  Distribute bills to Customers.
*  Ensure that bills to Customers list information as instructed by the PWA.
*  Respond to reports of the malfunction of meters from Customers, or meter readers,
or others, within the time periods set out in the Performance Standards.
*  Resolve Customer complaints with respect to bills.
*  Carry out all collections responsibilities.
(vii)   Bethlehem Governorate - Customer Service
* Carry out all customer service related to new water and wastewater connections.
*  Receive and handling all customer complaints, including complaints related to:
* Water and sewerage bills.
* Malfunctioning or inaccurate meters.
* Meter readings.
* Water pressure.
* Blockage of water and wastewater pipes.
* Leakage and damaged pipes.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                  Annex 2
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project   Paae 23       Project Appraisal Document
*  Pipes installed on private properties.
*  Receive and responding to all requests related to:
* A change in meter location.
* A change in customer names.
* Cancellation by customers.
*  Deal with all issues related to disconnection and reconnection of water service.
*  Establish a customer service office or offices in a convenient location with adequate
facilities to handle all inquiries promptly.
(viii) Bethlehem Governorate - Improvements to Billings, Collection and Customer
Service
* In the Bethlehem Govemorate, the Operator shall fully implement the programs
developed by the Operator.
C.    SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED IN THE HEBRON GOVERNORATE
(i)    Service Support and Advice
*  Means the provision of technical, financial and administrative expert advice and
includes:
*  The provision of day-to-day support and advice in technical, financial and
administrative matters.
*  The provision of all forms of advice through a day-to-day presence in the Hebron
Govemorate and direct contact with operations staff.
*  Day-to-day instruction, education and training of the operations staff who work
in the Hebron Governorate.
e  The provision of problem-solving assistance.
*  Open availability for consultation at all times during regular business hours.
*  Advice and assistance in the implementation of new technologies.
e  The provision of technical, financial and administrative advice at regular
meetings with the authorities in the Hebron Governorate.
*  Active efforts of technology knowledge transfer from the Operator to the
Operations Staff.
(ii)    Water and Wastewater Operations and Maintenance
* Provide Service Support and Advice to the Local Governments with respect to
operations and maintenance matters relating to:
*  Pumping and transportation of water, the chlorination of water and the
distribution and supply of drinking water to Customers.
*  Management of wells operated by the Authorities in the Hebron Govemorate.
*  Collection of wastewater and the pumping and transportation of wastewater to
the receiving bodies.
(iii)   Water and Wastewater Operations Improvements
* Provide Service Support and Advice in the implementation of the following by the
Local Governments:
* Comprehensive water quality monitoring program.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                  Annex 2
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Imorovement Proiect   Page 24       Proiect Appraisal Document
* Safety Deficiencies Correction Plan.
* Safety Program.
* Emergency Response Plan.
* Energy Management Plan.
* Unregistered Connection Program.
*  Wellhead protection program developed.
*  Wastewater collection system programs.
(iv)   Improvements to Billings, Collection and Customer Service
* In the Hebron Governorate, the Operator shall provide Service Support and Advice
in the implementation of the programs developed by the Operator.
D.    MISCELLANEOUS REPORTS
(i)    Bi-Monthly Reports
*  Prepare bi-monthly reports outlining status of:
* Water quality sampling and testing program.
* Wastewater effluent monitoring program.
* Safety.
* Energy management.
* Unregistered connection.
* Staff training and development.
* Wellhead protection.
*  Programs to improve the physical infrastructure and system performance overall
including information with respect to:
* Correction of deficiencies identified in the initial condition survey.
* Accounted for water.
* Constancy of supply.
* Repair and replacement of water meters and piping.
* Leak detection program.
*  Programs to improve billings, collection and customer service.
*  Operations and maintenance report on the water and wastewater services operated
and maintained by the Operator in the Bethlehem Governorate.
*  CMMS.
*  Implementation status of the programs above.
*  Billings and collection in the Bethlehem Govemorate including complete financial
statements.
(ii)    Annual and Semi-Annual Reports
* Once every Contract Year, at the mid-point of the Contract Year, submit to the PWA
and the Coordinating Committee a summary of the bi-monthly reports for the
previous six months.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 25        Project Appraisal Document
* Within 30 days after the last business day of each Contract Year, submit to the PWA
and the Coordinating Committee an annual report summarizing the activities of the
Operator in the previous Contract Year in the areas described.
2.    As compensation for the delivery of services described above, the Operator will be paid a fee
consisting of two parts: a Management Fixed fee and an incentive fee based upon the attainment of
specified performance goals that are included in Annex 7.
3.    Management Fixed Fee (with a ceiling of US$8.0 million).2 A base fee will be paid to provide for
mobilization and operating costs during the period of the contract and finance necessary staff to implement
the four (4) year Service Improvement Program.
4.    Incentive Fee (US$2.0 million). The maximum amount that can be paid as an incentive fee for
meeting the specified targets over the duration of the Contract has been fixed at US$2.0 million. The
maximum amount of incentive fee that can be paid annually is equal to US$500,000 (US$2.0 million
divided in four equal parts). The actual amount of the incentive fee received by the Operator will depend on
the extent of the achievement of performance targets specified in the Management Contract and will be
determined by the application of a performance factor (composite score) to the maximum incentive fee
amount of US$2.0 million.
Project Component 2: Operating Investment Fund (OIF) - US$10.0 million
Background
5.    This Fund will provide the Operator and PWA with immediate funds for the purchase of
materials, supplies and equipment that is necessary, but not limited, to:
(a)   rehabilitate the water and wastewater infrastructure in both the Bethlehem and Hebron
Governorates; and
(b)    enhance the efficient operations, maintenance, and administration of the water and
wastewater systems in both the Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates.
6.    The OIF is also considered to be under the control of the Operator, subject to the approval of an
annual procurement plan, in order to reduce procurement concerns and provide the Operator with funds
to direct the achievement of Performance Standards.
Operation of the OIF
7.    The Operator will be required to develop an annual plan for use of the funds in the OIF subject
to:
- approval of the PWA and CC;
- the plan's compliance with the categories of appropriate expenditures on materials, supplies,
and equipment (defined below);
- the restrictions on amount of the fund to be spent in each contract year.
8.    After approval of each annual plan the Operator will procure the materials, supplies, and
equipment in accordance with IDA (the World Bank) procurement requirements which are identified in
the contract and Annex 6. The first annual plan will be due 90 days after the Starting Date of the
contract and each subsequent annual plan shall be submitted to the client on the anniversary of the
Starting Date.
2/ The actual Management Fixed Fee as bid by the selected MC Operator is US$4.95 million.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                      Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 26           Proiect Appraisal Document
Categories of Appropriate Expenditures
9.     The Operator's annual plan for use of the OIF will generally comply with the categories of
expenditures (as separately identified for each of the Governorates) listed in Annex 3, Table A.
10.    Water piping and appurtenances includes all of the various items generally identified with a
water piping system including but not limited to water pipe, valves, fittings, service connection
assemblies, air release valves, blow off assemblies.
11.    Sewer piping and pumping equipment includes all of the various items generally identified with a
sewer piping collection and disposal system including but not limited to sewer pipe, fittings, valves,
manholes, etc. Pumping equipment for the purposes of this category includes spare parts, mechanical
and electrical parts, controls, screens.
12.    Water meters includes all devices used to measure the flow of water in the water system and
includes water meters at building connections, water meters at wells, water meters at transfer points from
West Bank Water Department to water distribution systems, flow meters used to record flows in
intermediate locations.
13.    Water operations equipment includes any equipment or spare parts for equipment necessary to
operate the water system, including but not limited to pumps, mechanical and electrical parts, controls,
water tankers.
14.    Water/sewer maintenance equipment includes any tools, construction equipment, meter test
equipment, and any other equipment normally used in the maintenance of water and wastewater systems.
15.    Water/sewer infrastructure structural includes any supplementary structural materials needed to
rehabilitate the water/sewer infrastructure and could include masonry, structural steel, fencing, roofing
materials, and other material needed for repairs/rehabilitation.
16.    Water/sewer administrative includes any administrative equipment necessary for the effective
administration of the water/wastewater systems and could include computer hardware and software, copy
machines, office furniture, communications equipment, and other administrative equipment required for
the efficient administration of the water/wastewater systems.
17.    Consumables includes the items that are used in the course of effective operation, maintenance,
and administration of the water/wastewater systems and could include, treatment chemicals (such as
chlorine), lubricants, labor (bonus payments or additional temporary labor).
Administration of the OIF
18.    The OIF is intended to provide funds for the Operator to use for the immediate improvement of
operation, maintenance, administration, and rehabilitation of the water and wastewater systems. During
the course of the four year contract, changes in the needs and priorities may require adjustment of the
categories and/or amounts available in each category in order to meet Performance Standards and system
goals. It is therefore intended that the administration of the OIF be flexible in order to meet the goals of
the project.
Project Component 3: Capital Investment - US$39.34 million
19.    A comprehensive study (Water Supply Facility Study for Bethlehem/Hebron Districts by Camp
Dresser McKee Inc. for USAID and the PWA) provided a masterplan for the development of piped water
supply services throughout the project area. A number of donors in addition to the USAID are assisting
the PWA to implement the masterplan.
20.    The European Investment Bank (EIB) has signed a loan with the PA to support three packages of
priority works drawn directly from the masterplan (packages 1-3 below). In addition, to extend services
to unserved rural villages, two packages of works have been identified from among the list of forty-nine



West Bank and Gaza                                                                  Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Page 27        Proiect Appraisal Document
priority projects in the project area complied by the PWA and the West Bank Water Department
(WBWD).
Package                    Population Served         Design by
1. Dhaisha-Beit Jala             14,300             IDA/Sogreah
2. Hebron-Dura-Yatta            150,000                USAID
3. East Herodian Wellfield      350,000                USAID
4. Dura Villages                 30,000             EIB/WBWD
5. Yatta Villages                6-9,000            EIB/WBWD
21.   The project component will finance the implementation and supervision of the following
packages (for detailed cost breakdown see Annex 3, Table B):
a.    Package #1: Construction of Dhaisha - Beit Jala housing package (part of Bethlehem
2000 package) including: (i) the construction of a pumping station with the capacity of 4,000
m3/day; (ii) a new 1,000 m3 water reservoir near Beit Jala housing area; (iii) a connecting
pipeline from the pumping station to the reservoir (DN350, 2.5 1cm); and (iv) a new pipeline to
reinforce the distribution system in Beit Jala (DN200, 4 km).
b.    Package #2: Construction of Hebron - Dura - Yatta transmission system including:
(i) construction of a transmission main from Hebron to Al-Fawwar and onwards to Dura
(DN600, 8.7 km and DN 400, 6.5 km); (ii) the construction of a transrnission main from
Al-Fawwar to Yatta (DN400, 40 km and DN 300, 2.0 km); (iii) a pumping station between
Al-Fawwar and Dura; and (iv) a regional reservoir of 5,000 m3 between Dura and Yatta.
c.    Package #3: Drilling and equipping two new groundwater wells in East Herodian
including:  (i) the construction of two ground water wells along the Bethlehem-Hebron
transmission main with a capacity of 1.8 Mm3/yr each (total new production 10,000 m3/day) and
estimated depth 750 meters; (ii) two pumping stations (inclusive balancing tanks, generators and
otner necessary equipment) each with the capacity of 5,000m3/day; and (iii) connection pipeiines
from pumping stations to transmission main (DN 350, 8.5 Iam).
dc    Package #4: Dura Village Package including: (i) construction of a transmission main
from Al-Fawwar to Ed-Dahria (DN250, 11.5 km); (ii) transmission main from Dura to the
villages (DN 200, 3.7 kim, DNI50, 7.9 kcm, DN100. 2.8 km, DN 75, 8.1 km, DN 50, 3.0 km);
(iii) new reservoir of 5,000m3 near Ed-Dahria; and (iv) internal networks to some 20 villages.
e.    Package #5: Yatta Village Package including: (i) the construction of a transmission
main to these villages (DN 200, 7.3 km); (ii) the construction of branching mains from the
transmission main to the villages (DN 100, 6.8 k1m); and (iii) internal networks in 12 villages.
22.   Detailed design of these packages will be prepared as follows:
Package                   Detailed Design by       Financed by     Target Date
1. Dhaisha-Beit Jala        Sogreah Consult.      IDA (B2000)          3/99
2. Hebron-Dura-Yatta           Consultant            USAID             6/99
3. East Herodian Wellfield     Consultant            USAID             6/99
4. Dura Villages                WBWD                   EIB             1/00
5. Yatta Villages               WBWD                   EIB             1/00
Project Component 4: Technical Assistance (TA) - US$3.57 million
23.   A program of TA is included under the project and includes provisions to: (i) strengthen the
Project Management Unit (PMU) to support implementation of the project; (ii) provide independent
consultants to audit the Operator's technical and financial performance and recommend performance
incentive payments; (iii) consultants to carry out an annual financial audit; (iv) provide consultants to



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 2
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 28        Project Appraisal Document
assist in the establishment of proper financial management, accounting and reporting systems for the
PMU; and (v) carry out related studies (development of a regulatory framework).
24.   The PMU will be charged with managing all activities related to this project, i.e. the capital
investment program and the management contract. The PMU, directly responsible to the PWA's Head
and would act on behalf of PWA in dealing with the Operator, the Donors, Municipalities and other PA
Ministries.
25.   To achieve the above objectives several staff would be recruited, and equipment and vehicles
procured, as follows:
(i)    Support for the PMU includes: financing of key staff positions in the PMU including
the Project Manager, Project Advisor, Procurement Advisor, Engineers, Coordinators,
Technicians, Accountants, and Administrative and Support staff; financing procurement of
vehicles, equipment, furniture and supplies, incremental operating expenditures, and for related
PMU travel and training;
(ii)    Consultant Services. Funds have been allocated for: Technical and financial auditors
to provide independent assessment of the Operator's performance in order to verify achievement
of performance targets and to calculate performance incentive payments; Financial Auditors to
present, within six months of closing of the fiscal year, an Annual Report of the results of their
work in the PMU and PWA together with a management letter to certify that the financial
accounting, auditing and control procedures are adequate and are in accordance with
internationally acceptable standards; and consultants to implement Project Monitoring and
Reporting systems in compliance with LACI requirements.
26.   As a result of the competitive bids for the MC fixed fee, savings on the Operator's Fixed Fees
would be used, among other things, to fund a study to initiate a small research and development
component on the potential reuse of wastewater in the WBG; and other related studies that cannot be
fully anticipated prior to the project related to development of the institutional arrangements for the
sector and including: possible creation of a Hebron District Regional Water Utility; and establishment of
a regulatory framework for the longer-term participation of the private sector in water and wastewater
services.
27.   It is the PWA's intention to seek grant funding for the above components of the TA program
partially or not funded by the IDA Trust Fund Credit or EIB. For detailed breakdown of the various
subcomponents refer to Annex 3, Table C.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                     Annex 3
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Paoe 29         Project Aporaisal Document
Annex 3
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local         Foreign          Total
------------  ---- US $ million--
Project Component "
1. Management Contract Fees                        1.60           8.40           10.00
2. Operating Investment Fund                       3.84           5.76            9.60
3. Capital Investments                            17.38          16.49           33.87
4. Technical Assistance                            1.26           2.16            3.42
Total Baseline Cost                               24.08          32.81           56.89
Physical Contingencies 2'                       1.58           2.47            4.05
Price Contingencies                             1.08           0.89            1.97
Total Project Cost                                26.74          36.17           62.91
Notes:
1/   Numbers for project components may not exactly match respective numbers in Tables A, B and C
of Annex 3 due to rounding errors.
2/   Physical contingency is 15 percent of base cost.
3/   Price contingencies for local and foreign are 7 and 3 percent, respectively.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                      Annex 3
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 30          Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3, Table A: Cost Breakdown of the Operating Investment Fund Component
Local    I   Foreign    I    Total
---------------------- US $ million---------------------
Operatin2 Investment Fund
Pipes and Piping Supplies                            1.68          2.52            4.20
Sewerage Pipes and Equipment                        0.53           0.79            1.32
Meters                                              0.28           0.42            0.70
Operating Equipment                                 0.32           0.48            0.80
Maintenance Equipment                               0.56           0.84            1.40
Miscellaneous Structural                            0.20           0.30            0.50
Administrative and Merit Payments                   0.12           0.18            0.30
Consumables (chlorine, lubricants, chemicals, etc.)  0.15          0.23            0.38
Total Operating Investment Fund Base Cost           3.84           5.76            9.60
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                              0.15          0.25             0.40
Total Component Cost                                3.99           6.01           10.00
Note:
1/   No physical contingencies were applied since all values are budgets and do not cover specific
contracts.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                        Annex 3
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 31            Project ApDraisal Document
Annex 3, Table B: Cost Breakdown of the Capital Investment Component
Local f     Foreign        Total
_----- - ---- -----US $ thousand----- --------
Capital Investment:
Dehaisha-Beit Jala Package                                0.44         0.69          1.13
East Hebron Well Field                                    3.28         5.16          8.44
Hebron-Dura-Yatta                                         3.24         4.99          8.23
Yatta Villages Package                                     1.33        2.04          3.37
Dura Villages Package                                     2.23          3.44         5.67
Unallocated                                               0.64         0.17          0.81
Budgetary Allocation for Bethlehem & Hebron Governorates  6.22          -            6.22
Total Capital Investment Base Cost                       17.38        16.49         33.87
Physical Contingencies                                 1.58         2.47          4.05
Price Contingencies                                    0.85         0.57          1.42
Total Component Cost                                     19.81        19.53         39.34
Note:
i/   No contingencies are applied for this subcomponent.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                      Annex 3
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Imorovement Proiect    Page 32           Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 3, Table C: Cost Breakdo,vn of the Technical Assistance Component
Local         Foreign          Total
---------------US $ thousand-
.Technical Assistance:
IDA Support:
Project Manager                                                     0.20           0.20
Engineers (5)                                       0.20            0.25           0.45
Technicians (3)                                     0.20            -              0.20
Financial and Technical Auditors                    0.05            0.05           0.10
Total IDA Support Base Cost                         0.45            0.50           0.95
Price Contingencies                              0.03           0.02            0.05
Total IDA Support                                   0.48            0.52           1.00
EIB Support:
Project Advisor                                      -              0.54           0.54
Procurement Advisor                                  -              0.54           0.54
Office Rent                                         0.07            -              0.07
Accommodation                                       0.08            -              0.08
Hotels                                               -              0.01           0.01
Travel                                              0.01            0.01           0.02
Vehicles                                             -              0.12           0.12
Equipment                                           0.12            0.12           0.24
Consultants                                         0.25            0.23           0.48
Accountant                                          0.05            -              0.05
Administrator                                       0.07            -              0.07
Study Tou.s                                         0.09            0.09           0.18
Support Staff                                       0.07            -              0.07
Total EIB Support Base Cost                         0.81            1.66           2.47
Price Contingencies                              0.05           0.05            0.10
Total EIB Support                                   0.86            1.71           2.57
Total Technical Assistance Component Cost           1.34            2.23           3.57



West Bank and Gaza                                                                  Annex 4
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project   Page 33        Project Aepraisal Document
Annex 4
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Economic Analysis
Methodology. The cost-benefit analysis uses a with and without project methodology. It estimates a net
present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR), in both financial and economic terms, for the pro-
forma regional utilities of Bethlehem and Hebron. The analysis evaluates the NPVs and MRRs for
Management Contract plus Operating Investment Fund components individually for both utilities. The
period of analysis is ten years. The discount rate used is 10%, which is the Bank's normal hurdle rate for
water and wastewater projects. The Base Case analyses are in 1998 NIS.
Risks.  The risks modeled are those shown to be either substantial or moderate in section F of the
Project Appraisal Document. The analysis also analyzes the normal risk of civil works cost overruns as
well as items where the project's economic rate of return was considered sensitive. Finally, the analysis
calculates the switching values for selected critical risks.
Conversion Factors. The cost-benefit analysis converts financial to economic flows by subtracting
value-added taxes from the cost of selected project components. The Ministry of Finance has agreed with
PWA to refund, if not exempt, all taxes on items financed by the World Bank and EIB. Therefore,
estimated taxes included in the financial flows are removed to arrive at the calculated EIRR (total taxes
amount to about NIS 0.9 million).
Analysis of the CIP Component. There is no economic analysis performed for non-borehole
components of the Capital Investment Program (CIP) financed by EIB and USAID. This is because:
(i) these components are not financed by IDA, and (ii) there is little, if any, technical interdependence
between them and the Management Contract and Operating Investment Fund components. The CIP
largely involves the laying of transmission pipelines and the laying of distribution networks in small
villages (see Annex 2 for more details). There is no need for construction coordination with the IDA
components and they are not dependent on each other for implementation. As such, these components
can be considered independent of the IDA-financed portions of the project and are, thereby, excluded
from IlDA's economic analysis. However, the economic analysis does contain a pro-rata share of the CIP
cost and increase in bulk water from the two new boreholes to be drilled at East Herodian.
The only connection between the EIB and IDA-financed components will emerge when the regional
water and sanitation utilities are established (see Section C.2. of the PAD). At that time, it is envisaged
that the regional utilities will assume operation of the CIP-constructed assets. To the determiine financial
capacity of the utilities to operate and maintain these assets, an indicative analysis was performed on one
of the most costly civil works packages (the US$4.0 million Yatta Village Scheme, Package 5). In this
case, the tariffs in the Base Case financial model were examined to see if they would be sufficient to
meet the future operational needs. The results show that the Base Case tariff per m3 would be about
twice the projected O&M requirement (NIS 4.18 vs. NIS 2.00), indicating there is a high likelihood of
financial sustainability once operation of these components is assumed by the regional utilities.
Financial and Economic Net Present Values and Rates of Return. Table A4.1 shows the estimated
financial and economic net present values and internal rates of return for the Base Case scenarios.
Table A4. 1 Net Present Value and Rate of Return for Management Contract
and Operating Investment Fund Components (NIS 000)
Component                  Govemnorate        Financial           Economic
NPV    FIRR %       NPV      EIRR %
Management Contract +      Bethlehem       11,460     27        13,103     31
Operating Investment Fund    Hebron         4,200     15         6,105     18



West Bank and Gaza                                                                        Annex 4
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 34            Project Appraisal Document
Economic returns to Management Contract and Operating Investment Fund components are robust, with
an estimated EIRR of 31 percent and 18 percent for Bethlehem and Hebron, respectively. The main
benefit streams in the "with" project scenario derive from: (a) increased water sales (brought about by
reductions in unaccounted-for water and increases in bulk water supplies); (b) the addition of new
customers; and (c) more efficient operation of utility assets and improvements in business practices. Cost
streams for the "with project" scenario include the management contract with the expected performance
incentive allocation, the operating investment for the improvement of the networks, a portion of the East
Herodian well field, and consumables.
Base Case Assumptions: Management Contract plus Operating Investment Fund: The Base Case models
make the following assumptions:
For Both Utilities:
1. Tariffs remain constant;
2. Connection fees are NIS 477 (US$114) for water and sewer, and NIS 145 (US$35) for sewer
only;
3. Without the project, O&M costs increase 7 percent annually to maintain UFW at current levels;
4. The Operator will achieve reductions in UFW from 49 percent today, to about 25 percent by the
end of the project. Reductions are made in both technical and commercial UFW  (see
memorandum in the Project File summarizing the engineers' basis for these assumptions and
specific amounts);
5. Charges for bulk water bought from Israel remain constant on a per m3 basis for the entire period
and the amount purchased does not change;
6. Other revenues (inspections, special meter fees, miscellaneous income) are held constant at about
3 percent of water sales for the entire analysis period;
7. In the "with" project scenario, energy used per m3/sold decreases by 20 percent over the analysis
period (resulting from operational improvements by the Operator); and
8. "Other" costs decrease from 15 percent of water sales in 1998, to 10 percent in 2002 (also as a
result of efficiencies gained under the management contract).
For Bethlehem:
1. Water consumption averages about 47 l/c/d in 1998, increasing to 63 I/c/d by 2002;
2. The average tariff isNIS 4.18/m3 (US$1.00/ m3);1 and
3. 700 water and sewer customers are added each year starting n 1999, plus an additional 200 sewer
only customers per year.
For Hebron:
1. Water consumption is 29 I/c/d in 1998, increasing to 46 I/c/d by 2002;
2. The average tariff is NIS 3.50/m3 (US$0.84/ m3);2 and
3. 500 water and sewer customers are added each year starting in 1999, plus an additional 100
sewer only customers per year.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values. For the Management Contract plus Operating Investment
Fund components, sensitivity analysis has been performed on selected risks identified in Section F of the
1/ Very few bulk or retail meters are working in the Bethlehem governorates. The estimated average tariff was
determined by an examination of the estimate water sold (based largely on bulk water purchases from Israel and local
utility estimates) and observed revenues.
2/ See previous footnote.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 4
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project   Page 35        Proiect Appraisal Document
PAD and other factors considered important by the Task Team. Results are shown in Table A4.2.
Table A4.2 Sensitivity Analysis (MC+OIF)
Description                   PAD) Risk  Bethlehem    Hebron
Modeled   EIRR (/)  EIRR (%)
No decrease in UFW (Base Case =decrease from 49   1,2,4        23          7
to 25 percent)
Energy savings limited to 10% (Base Case = 20%)   1,2,4        27         13
Reverting back to pre-management contract UTFW      3          28          13
after the life of the project.
Tariff reduction to NIS 3.00/m3                     6          26          16
Investment Costs increase by 20%                               21         14
Difficulty in processing tax exemptions and refunds  5         27         15
20 % increase in bulk water prices from Mekoroth               23          6
Switching values were also estimated for these components and the results are shown in Table A4.3.
Table A4.3 Switching Values (MC+OIF)
Description                       Bethlehem  | Hebron
By what percentage would the investment costs have to     82%           42%
escalate in order to reduce the NPV to zero?                       .
By what percentage would the bulk water price have to     15%            5%
increase each year to reduce the NPV to zero?
Sensitivity and switching analysis demonstrate that the Base Case model is relatively stable. This is
largely the result of the large increase in water sold as a result of the project, both from the Management
Contract, Operating Investment Fund (OIF) and CIP. For example, bulk water increases by 33 percent in
Bethlehem and by 62 percent in Hebron with the project.
The analysis also illustrates how important it is that the Operator achieves his targets for UFW reduction
and increases well efficiency under the OIF. The increase in bulk water also, to a large extent, underlies
the estimated EERRs. Therefore, ensuring that the East Herodian Well Field (under the USAID-financed
portion of the CIP) achieves about 1.8 million m3/year in output is an important objective. Finally, the
sensitivity and switching analysis illustrate the importance of the price for bulk water purchased from
Israel. If this price increases, then most likely a tariff increase, or substantial cost reduction measures,
would have to be considered.
Fiscal Impact. Repayment of the TFGWB credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance of
PA. Municipalities in the Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates will contribute about USD 6.22 million
or 10 percent of the total project cost. The average annual contribution is about USD 1.56 million over
the four-year implementation period. This project is not expected to impose any other financial burden
on the municipalities. The TFGWB credit will be repaid in 40 years with a ten-year grace period. The
interest rate is 0.75 percent on the disbursed balance, and a commitment fee of 0.50 may be charged on
the un-disbursed balance. The average annual debt service over 40 years (principal repayment,
commitment fee and interest) is estimated at US$630,000.
The EIB loan has a 1.64 percent annual interest rate. The average annual debt service over 20 years
(principal repayment, and interest) is estimated at US$2.1 million.
The total amount borrowed from the TFGWB and the EIB for this project, over the period 1999 to 2001,
represents about: (i) 8 percent of planned water and sanitation investment; and (ii) about 2 percent of the
total planned development outlay for the period (details in the Project File). As shown in Table A4.4, the
project's total fiscal impact is estimated at US$73 million. As this represents about 2 percent of the 1997



West Bank and Gaza                                                                             Annex 4
Southem Area Water and Sanitation ImDrovement Proiect    Paae 36                 Project AoDraisal Document
(latest figure available) estimated GDP for the West Bank and Gaza, the project is not considered to
present any fiscal burden.3
Table A4.4 Summary of the Project's Fiscal Impact
Fiscal Impact Source       US$ Million
TFGWB
Principal                                21.0
Commitment Fee* + Interest                4.1
EIB
Principal                                35.7
Interest                                  6.7
Counterpart Requirement                   6.2
Local Taxes                              -0.9
Total                                    72.8
* IDA's Board of Directors may waive the commitment fee
Coordination with Public Expenditure Review. Expansion and strengthening of the water and sanitation
delivery systems in the West Bank is a priority recomrnmendation in the latest Public Expenditure Review
done by IDA (see February 1999 draft in the Project File). The PER also supports the creation of
regional water and sanitation corporations and an increase in private sector participation - both of which
will be implemented with this support from this project. In this context, the new regional utilities for
Hebron and Bethlehem are specifically mentioned in the PER.
The project's various components are also included in the Palestinian Development Plan 1999 to 2003,
published in January 1999 (relevant sections included in the Project File).
3/ Total debt service infornation for WBG is not available. Thus, it was not possible to determine the effect of the
project on the existing debt service obligations.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 5
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Page 37        Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Financial Analysis
Overview. This annex contains the pro-forma financial analysis of the proposed Bethlehem and Hebron
regional water and wastewater utilities (see Section C.2 of the PAD concerning their establishment).
Urban areas contained in reach regional utility and contained in the financial base case models are shown
in Table A5.1, and together constitute an estimated 454,000 people in 25 towns or cities.
Table A5.1 Major Communities and Estimate 1998 Population of
Bethlehem and He    Reonal Water & Sanitation Utilities
Bethlehem    Population    IHebron      Population
WSSA              74,522  Hebron City       113,850
Nahallin           5,175  Halhol             18,630
Husan              4,658  Dora               27,945
Beitfajar          8,280  Thahrya            27,468
Zatra              4,140  Izna               17,595
Taqu               7,245  Banina'm           15,008
Ea'bedya          10,350  Beitommar          11,592
l __________ lBitola                           5,482
Samu               17,595
Yatta              24,658
Tarkomya           11,385
Sa'er              17,645
L   Shyokh          7,142
Beitkahel           5,175
Sorif               9,832
Tafoh               8,280
Total            114,370  Total             339,282
Populations of the two governorates are substantially more than the cities and towns shown in Table
A5. 1. For example, in the Bethlehem governorate, there are approximately 50 cities, towns and villages,
with estimated populations ranging from 50 to over 50,000 people. Total 1998 population is estimated at
130,000. Hebron governorate contains some 98 urban areas/villages with populations ranging from 50 to
over 110,000 inhabitants. The total 1998 population here is an estimated 405,000 people. Given the
number of urban areas, during project preparation activities the collection of financial data was
necessarily limited by cost and time considerations to locales with populations over 4,000 people (with a
few exceptions where data was not available).
Therefore, the Base Case financial models include only the cities included in Table A5.1. The cities
shown there represent about 85 percent of the total population in the two governorates, thereby providing
a fairly reliable base for the overall financial projections.
In the Base Year (1998), both utilities lost substantial money from operations (about NIS 3 million in
Bethlehem and NIS 4.3 million in Hebron, or US$712,000 and US$1.0 million, respectively). Despite
the revenue shortfalls, both utilities were able to continue operations through a combination of partial
payments for bulk water and energy and, in the case of Hebron, through a cross-subsidy from other
municipal activities. However, IDA and the PWA have agreed under the policy framework for this
project that the financial health of the proposed regional utilities in Bethlehem and Hebron must be
restored as quickly as possible. In this context, PWA's December 1998 Water Tariff Study stated that
"the water utilities shall be operating on a commercial basis with revenues from service tariffs that will
recover operation and maintenance costs plus depreciation and interest on future investments".



West Bank and Gaza                                                                        Annex 5
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 38             Proiect Appraisal Document
To this end, IDA has developed a Base Case Financial model for each utility that shows each covering
cash expenses from revenues by 2001. Results are summarized in Tables A5.2 and A5.3.
Table A5.2 Bethlehem Regional Water and Sanitation Utility
Base Case Financial Model Projections
1998 NIS 000)
___   ___  __  ___   __  ___  __      1i20j       00  :   i;000    0j;0X0    L  0000000;99 8   ' 1 <999 0  20   00 ;  20w0100 0 t2 X00 20
Revenues                              8,428     9,745    11,303   12,442   13,373
Operating Expenses*                  11,414    11,777    12,114   12,176   12,108
Net Income                        _(2,986)   (2,032)       (811)     266    1,266
Net Income (Loss) as % of Sales        (35)      (21)        (7)        2       10
* Total Costs excluding depreciation and interest.
Table A5.3 Hebron Regional Water and Sanitation Utility
Base Case Financial Model Projections
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _     (1998  NIS  l   _00)  _
~~~~~~~~~~1099   .  l999                       2000   42001    2002
Revenues                             12,642    16,942    19,197   20,641   21,679
Operating Expenses*                  16,958    19660    20,107   20,017   19,649
Net Income                           (4,315)   (2,718)     (910)      624    2,030
Net Income (Loss) as % of Sales        (34)       (16)       (5)        3        9
* Total Costs excluding depreciation and interest.
Improvements in financial performance are made possible through a combination of: (i) increased water
sales (made possible by increases in bulk water supplies and reductions in unaccounted for water); (ii)
the addition of new customers; and (iii) more efficient operations (brought about under the management
contract). Tariffs and connection fees are not adjusted in the Base Case models.
The Base Case models contain only pro-forma income statements. Balance sheets, even for the WSSA in
Bethlehem, have never been prepared and are not available. Thus, depreciation is not included in the
income statements. However, the project does require the Management Contract Operator to conduct an
inspection of all facilities and prepare complete financial statements on a bi-monthly basis immediately
after mobilization. Finally, the Borrower will assume all debt service for the two utilities and the
proceeds of the IDA credit will be passed on at no cost as a contribution to their equity. Thus, the
income statements also make no provision for debt service.
Assumptions: Bethlehem: Water consumption in the Bethlehem utility was assumed to average about
47 liters/per-capita/day in 1998, with an estimated average tariff of NIS 4.18/m3 (US$1.00/ m3).' Over
the period 1998 to 2002, liters per capita per day are assumed to increase to about 63 l/c/d through:
(i) the decrease in total unaccounted for water from 49% to 25% and, (ii) augmented bulk water supplies
due to the drilling of new wells in the capital investmnent program. Assumptions for the reduction in
UFW are documented in the Project File. An additional 700 water and sewer customers are added each
year starting in 1999, plus an additional 200 sewer only customers per year. Connection fees are NIS 477
(US$114) for water and sewer together, and NIS 145 (US$35) for sewer only. Other revenues
(inspections, special meter fees, miscellaneous income) are held constant about 3 percent of water sales
for the entire analysis period.
Charges for bulk water bought from Israel remain constant on a per m3 basis for the entire period and the
amount purchased does not change (i.e., all additional water is assumed to come from PWA sources as a
result of the project). As a result of the management contract, energy used per m3/sold is assumed to
1/ Very few bulk or retail meters are working in the Bethlehem govemorate. The estimated average tariff was
determined by an examination of estimated water sold (based largely on metered bulk water purchases from Israel
and local utility estimates) and observed revenues.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                          Annex 5
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 39              Project Appraisal Document
decrease by 20 percent over the analysis period. "Other" costs are assumed to decrease from 15 percent
of water sales in 1998, to 10 percent in 2002, also as a result of improved operating efficiency under the
management contract.
Assumptions: Hebron: Water consumption in the Hebron regional utility was assumed to average about
29 liters/per-capita/day in 1998, with an estimated average tariff of NIS 3.50/m3 (US$0.84/ m3).2 Over
the period 1998 to 2002, liters per capita per day are assumed to increase to about 46 UIc/d through:
(i) the same decrease in total unaccounted for water as in Bethlehem (from 49% to 25%) and, (ii) the
increases in bulk water supplies from the new wells already mentioned. An additional 500 water and
sewer customers are added each year starting in 1999, plus an additional 100 sewer only customers per
year. Connection fees are the same as those for Bethlehem (NIS 477 (US$114) for water and sewer
together, and NIS 145 (US$35) for sewer only). Other revenues (inspections, special meter fees,
miscellaneous income) are also held constant about 3 percent of water sales for the entire analysis period.
The assumptions for bulk water from Israel, energy per m3/sold and "other" costs are also the same as
described for Bethlehem.
Project File. Included in the project file are hard and electronic copies of the base case financial model,
as well as documentation for UFW assumptions and detailed population estimates.
2/ See above. Same estimation methodology was used to calculate the average tariff in Hebron.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                    rm i
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Financial Projections: Bethlehem Hebron Regional Utilities                                                              C CD
All Figures are NIS                                     Bethlehem                                                         Hebron                                             SD
1998       1999        2000         2001        2002           1998        1999         2000        2001        2002                X 
Parameters                                                                                                                                                                 2 G)
#of Connections                      18,500      18,500      19,200      19,900      20,600         54,700      54,700      55.200       55,700      56,200
New Connections                                                                                                                                                            C
Both Water & Wastewater                           700         700          700         700                        500          500         500         500                0)
Wastewateronly                                    200          200         200         200                        150          150         150          150               -
Total Connections                    18,500      19,200      19,900      20,600      21,300         54,700       55,200      55,700       56,200      56,700               o
Size of Average Household               6.2         6.2         6.2         6.2         6.2            6.2          6.2         6.2         6.2          6.2
l/c/d Increase from UFW Red.       25.00%                                                          25.00%                                                                 CD
I/c/d Increase from CIP             6.00%                                                          37.00%                                                                 CD
Projected Increse in l/c/d          33.00%                                                          62.00%
Phasing of Increase                                80%         90%         96%        100%                        80%          90%         96%         100%                m
Lts/Cap/day                           47.00       50.01       56.26       60.01       62.51          28.50        36.94       41.55       44.32        46.17               C
Total Cu.m./year                  1,967,679   2,172,828    2,533,551    2,797,516    3,013,101   3,527,904    4,613,956    5,237,718    5,637,051    5,924,170
Tariff/cu.m.                           4.18        4.18        4.18        4.18        4.18           3.50         3.50        3.50        3.50         3.50
Connection Fees                                                                                                                                                            X
Both Water & Wastewater               477                                                             477                                                                 o
Wastewater only                       145                                                             145                                                                 4I
Revenues
Sales Water& Wastewater           8,224,896   9,082,419   10,590,243   11,693,615   12,594,761  12,347,663   16,148,848   18,332,014   19,729,679   20,734,594
Sales Connection Fees                    0    362,900      362,900      362,900     362,900              0     260,250     260,250      260,250     260,250
Other                              202,929     299,720     349,478     385,889      415,627        294,815     532,912     604,956      651,079     684,242
Total Revenue                     8,427,825   9,745,039   11,302,621   12,442,404   13,373,288  12,642,478   16,942,010   19,197,220   20,641,009   21,679,085
costs
Manpower                          2,325,393   2,325,393    2,325,393    2,325,393    2,325,393    2,469,513   2,469,513    2,469,513    2,469,513    2,469,513
Maintenance                       1,247,271   1,247,271    1,247,271    1,247,271    1,247,271    2,050,194   2,05C,1f4   2,050,194    2,050,194    2,050,194
Energy                            2,920,303   3,144,153    3,572,128    3,736,705    3,577,482    4,953,695   6,316,706    6,986,799    7,123,723    6,654,723
Bulk Water Purchase               3,698,007   3,698,007    3,698,007    3,698,007    3,698,007    6,401,036   6,401,036    6,401,036    6,401,036    6,401,036
Other                             1,223,240   1,362,363    1,270,829    1,169,361    1,259,476    1,083,479   2,422,327    2,199,842    1,972,968    2,073,459
Total Operating Costs            11,414,214  11,777,187   12,113,628   12,176,737   12,107,629   16,957,917   19,659,776   20,107,384   20,017,434   19,648,926
-U
Net Income                       (2,986,389)  (2,032,148)   (811,007)    265,667    1,265,660    (4,315,439)  (2,717,766)   (910,164)    623,575    2,030,160              a
CD
Net Income/Sales                    -35.43%    -20.85%      -7.18%        2.14%       9.46%        -34.13%     -16.04%      -4.74%        3.02%       9.36%
Aver. Household Bill/month (NIS)      36.54       38.88       43.74       46.66       48.60           18.55       24.05       27.05       28.85        30.06
Aver. Household Bill/month (US$)       9.14        9.72       10.94       11.66        12.15          4.64         6.01        6.76        7.21         7.51               0
0D>



West Bank and Gaza                                                                 Annex 6
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Paae 41      Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    During project preparation, an assessment of PWA's capacity to implement procurement was
carried out (see Annex 9). Based on this assessment, the following procurement methods and prior
review thresholds were determined.
Procurement methods (Table A)
2.    The Operator, as part of the Services and under the Operating Investment Fund, shall have the
responsibility to procure and enter into contracts, on behalf of the PWA and in accordance with the
Procurement Guidelines for the International Development Association ("IDA"), for goods and works
(Guidelines-Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits-January 1995-Revised January and
August 1996 and September, 1997) and services (Guidelines-Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers January 1997-Revised September, 1997). All references in these guidelines to
the "Borrower" shall apply equally to the Operator.
3.    The Operator shall use funds from the Operating Investment Fund for only those projects and
activities listed in the Operating Investment Fund Appendix of the MC and no funds from the Operating
Investment Fund shall be used to fund any other activity.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
4.    With respect to the expenditures by the Operator on behalf of the PWA, the following shall
apply:
(a)    works contracts valued at or above US$1.0 million shall be awarded under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures;
(b)    works contracts valued below US$1.0 million shall be awarded using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures up to a maximum in aggregate of US$1.5 million;
(c)    contracts for goods valued at or above US$250,000 shall be awarded under ICB
procedures;
(d)    contracts for goods valued below US$250,000 but above US$100,000 shall be awarded
under NCB procedures up to a maximum aggregate of US$1.0 million;
(e)    contracts for goods valued at or below US$100,000 but above US$50,000 shall be
awarded using International Shopping procedures up to a maximum in aggregate of US$4.0
million;
(f)    contracts for goods valued at or below US$50,000 shall be purchased using National
Shopping Procedures up to an amount in aggregate of US$ 1.0 million;
(g)    consultants shall be recruited under the Guidelines-Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997-Revised September, 1997) and IDA's



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 6
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 42       Proiect Appraisal Document
Standard Request for Proposals (April, 1998). Where the cost of such services is less than
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, the prior review will cover the terms of
reference and the cost estimates. For all other contracts the prior review will cover the items
listed in Appendix 1 of IDA's Guidelines; and
(h)    all procurement of works and goods under ICB and NCB procedures shall be based on
the latest editions of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and all bid evaluations shall
conform with IDA's Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April, 1998).
5.    All contracts awarded by the Operator through ICB and contracts for works, goods and services
valued at or above US$250,000 are subject to prior review by the IDA. The threshold for prior review
for consulting services shall be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms and US$50,000 for
contracts with individuals.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
6.    The proposed Trust Fund Credit would be disbursed against the project components as shown in
Table C. The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of 4 years, and the project would be
completed by June 30, 2003.
7.    Initially and until the project's financial management system  is installed and tested,
disbursements will follow the traditional way. Once the project's financial management system is
installed and fully tested, no later than July 2000, it is expected that the project would qualify for LACI
disbursement (periodic disbursement based on regular submission of project management reports).
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
8.    Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs for contracts for works and goods below
US$250,000, for consulting services contracts with consulting firms below US$100,000 and US$50,000
for contracts with individuals. Documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs would be
maintained by PWA and made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
Special account (SA):
9.    To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures under the Credit, the PWA will establish
a Special Account (SA) at a commercial bank in the West Bank to be operated by the PWA, under terms
satisfactory to the IDA. The SA will be maintained by the PWA as a separate identifiable account to be
used exclusively for project expenditures and activities described in the Operating Investment Fund
Appendix. The IDA will, upon request, make an authorised allocation of US$1.7 million. Initially, and
until total disbursements reach US$5.0 million, the allocation would be limited to US$1.0 million.
Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 30 percent of the initial
deposit has been used, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the
necessary documentation, in accordance with IDA guidelines, including a bank statement of the SA and
a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA records. The SA and project accounts will be
audited annually as part of PWA's annual financial audits by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA.
This audit report, in English, will be submitted to IDA for review and approval within six months of the
end of each fiscal year.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                  Annex 6
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project  Pace 43                       Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Procurement Method                   (including
Expenditure Category                ICB         NCB        Other    NIF l'    contingencies)
1. Works
1.1 Capital Investments (EIB Packages)                                      33.12         33.12
1.2 Allocations from BG & HG Budgets                                         6.22          6.22
1.3 Operating Investment Fund (OIF) 3/     1.70         1.50                               3.20
(1.70)     (1.50)                              (3.20)
Sub-total Works    1.70        1.50            _   39.34         42.54
(1.70)     (1.50)       -         -            (3.20)
2. Goods
2.1 Operating Investment Fund (OIF) 3'      2.50        1.00       2.90                    6.40
(2.50)      (1.00)     (2.90)                  (6.40)
2.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)                                                  0.37         0.37
Sub-total Goods   2.50         1.00       2.90      0.37          6.77
(2.50)      (1.00)     (2.90)      -           (6.40)
3. Management Contract
3.1 Management Contract Fixed Fee 4'        8.00                                           8.00
(8.00)                                         (8.00)
3.2 Performance Incentive Compensation 51   2.00                                           2.00
(2.00)                                         (2.00)
Sub-total Goods    10.00                                         10.00
(10.00)                  -          -          (10.00)
4. Services
4.1 Consultant Services                                            1.00       1.82         2.82
(1.00)     -           (1.00)
4.2 Support for PMU (by EIB)                                                  0.38         0.38
Sub-total Services                          1.00      2.20         3.20
(1.00)     -           (1.00)
5. Incremental Operating Expenditure 61                               0.40                    0.40
(0.40)                 (0.40)
Total                                         14.20        2.50       4.30     41.91         62.91
(14.20)      (2.50)     (4.30)      -          (21.00)
Notes:
I/  Includes financing of ECU30.0 million by EIB (US$35.69 million equivalent).
2/ This represents local counterpart funding required to:
a. Maintain operating and financing to levels prior to the Management Contract, to cover staff, power, and
consumables.
b. Any additional funds required for works and goods beyond the Operating Investment Fund.
3/ Procurement from OIF is based on an approved yearly procurement plan in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
4/  The total Management Contract fixed fee for the term of the Contract shall not exceed US$8.0 million and is subject to
competitive bidding.
5! The total Performance Incentive Compensation for the term of the Contract exceeds US$2.0 million and is not subject
to competitive bidding.
6/ Using Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Trust Fund Credit.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                    Annex 6
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project    Page 44        Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)             Method               Prior Review
1. Works      Up to US$1.0 million, up to       NCB 1/    First and all subsequent contracts
US$1.5 million aggregate                    larger than US$0.25 million
At or above US$1.0 million        ICB "      All
2. Goods      At or below US$0.05 million, up    NS 2/     None
to US$1.0 million aggregate
At or below US$0.10 million but    IS 2/     None
above US$0.05 million, up to
US$4.0 million aggregate
Below US$0.25 million, but        NCB 1/    First
above US$0.10, up to US$1.0
million aggregate
At or above US$0.25 million       ICB '/    All
3. Services    Individual consultants up to      IDA       Review will cover TOR and cost
US$50,000                      Guidelines 3  estimates
Individual consultants more than   IDA       According to Appendix 1 of IDA
US$50,000                      Guidelines 3/  Guidelines
Consulting Firms up to            IDA        Review will cover TOR and cost
US$100,000                     Guidelines 3/  estimates
Consulting Firms more than        IDA        According to Appendix 1 of IDA
US$100                         Guidelines 3'  Guidelines
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months in the first year (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
Notes:
1/ Using 1DA's (World Bank) Standard Bidding Documents.
2/ Usually a rninimum of 3 quotes (with at least 2 countries if IS) for off-shelf and low value goods.
3/ Using Guidelines-Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997-Revised
September 1997, and IDA's Standard Request for Proposals (April 1998).



West Bank and Gaza                                                                     Annex 6
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Paae 45         Proiect Aooraisal Document
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in US$             Financing
Expenditure Category              million equivalent         Percentage
1. Works:
1.1 Operating Investment Fund                   2.00          100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory), 85% of local
expenditures
2. Goods:
2.1 Operating Investment Fund                   6.70          100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory), 85% of local
expenditures
3. Management Contract:
3.1 Management Contract Fixed Fees              8.00          100%
3.2 Performance Incentive Compensation          2.00
4. Services:
4.1 Consultant Services and training            0.50          100%
5. Incremental Operating Expenditures:
5.1 Support for PMU                                 0.30          100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory), 85% of local
expenditures
5. Unallocated                                      1.5
Total                           21.0



West Bank and Gaza                                                                Annex 7
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Page 46       Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Performance Standards
Appendix 6 to General Conditions for a Management Contract for the
Provision of Water and Wastewater Service



West Bank and Gaza                                                            Annex 7
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect   Paae 47   Project-Appraisal Document
Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999  Page I of 23
THE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS APPENDIX
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1- GENERAL
1.1         Documents Comprising the Performance Standards Appendix.
(1)   The Performance Standards Appendix consists of,
(a)   the Performance Standards General Provisions; and
(b)   the Performance Standards Appendix Chart.
(2)   The Performance Standards Appendix Chart sets out the performance standards
with reference to the Services Appendix Sections.
1.2          Supplementing the General Conditions and Services Appendix
The Performance Standards Appendix supplements the General Conditions and
the Services Appendix for the purpose of providing greater specificity of the performance
standards which the Operator is required to meet.
ARTICLE 2 - THE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS CHART
2.1         Services Appendix Description
The descriptions contained in the column of the Performance Standards Appendix
Chart entitled, "Description of Service" are for the convenience of the Operator and do not
supersede the actual wording of the Services Appendix.
2.2         Quality Operating Standards
Where the term "Quality Operating Standard" is used in the Performance
Standards Chart it means a standard of performance which,
(a)   is competent, efficient, economical and in accordance with internationally
accepted techniques used in the water and wastewater industry;
(b)   is in accordance with professional engineering, accounting and consultin-g
standards, as applicable, recognized by international professional bodies;



West Bank and Gaza                                                                              Annex 7
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 48                  Project Appraisal Document
Perfornance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999           Page 2 of 23
(c)    is in accordance with sound management, commercial, technical and
engineering practices;
(d)    employs appropriate technology and safe and effective equipment,
machinery and methods;
(e)    protects the interests of the Authorities;
(f)    is in accordance with the Applicable Law;
(g)    is at least equal to the standard of performance in place in the year prior to
the Effective Date; and
(h)    is in accordance with the technical specifications of the PWA as provided
to the. Operator.



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                            Page 3 of 23    g'E
CD W
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS APPENDIX CHART
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR               YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX        DESCRIPTION OF           PERFORMANCE           DELIVERABLES          YEAR               I        I        I
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4 
SA 2.2.1         Water Quality Sampling and Testing                                                                                      3
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8
SA 2.2.1 (1) (a)    * develop water quality   - within 60 days after the  Program     100%        100%                                   3
program                Starting Date                                                                      I
SA 2.2.1 (1) (b)   * wastewater effluent  within 60 days after the  Program           100%        100%                                   CD
monitoring program     Starting Date                                                     _
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... .     .
SA 2.2.2          Safety Conditions of Facilities                                                                                        m
SA 2.2.2 (1)      * physical inspection of  * within 30 days after the  Inspection    100%        100%
Facilities             Starting Date
SA 2.2.2 (2)      * Safety Deficiencies  - within 30 days after the  Plan             100%        100%
Correction Plan        Starting Date
SA 2.3.3         Occupational Health and Safety
SA 2.2.3 (1)      * develop Safety       * within 90 days after the  Program          100%        100%
Program                Starting Date
SA 2.2.3 (2)     * occupational health   * ongoing               Program              100%                                               a
and safety training    * commencing no later                       * ongoing
than 30 days after the                      throughout                                          >
approval of Safety                         the term of                                          _
Program by PA                               Contract
3C



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                         Page 4 of 23    g'
SERVICE                                                                           FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX        DESCRIPTION OF          PERFORMANCE           DELIVERABLES    YEAR                                                  E
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                               TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA224           Emergency Rsos  ln___
SA 2.2.4 (1)     * prepare Emergency    * within 180 days after    Plan            100%         100%
0
Response Plan         the Starting Date
SA 2.2.4 (3)     *training re:          - ongoing               Plan               100%                                               <
Emergency Response    * commencing no later                       * ongoing                                         B
Plan                  than 30 days after the                      throughout                                         ,
completion of the                         the term of                                         X
Emergency Response                         Contract
plan
at least two mock drills                                                                    -
per Contract Year                                                                            CA
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A> 42.2.5   0    S jtan-  dardOpertn Prcdue                     _________A_e_=                            =____
SA 2.2.5 (1)     * prepare Standard     * within 180 days after    Program          100%        100%
Operating Procedures   the Starting Date
SA 2.2.5 (2)     * training re: Standard    * within 30 days after the  Program    100 %        100%
Operating Procedures    approval by the PWA of                    *ongoing
the Standard Operating                     throughout
Procedures                                 the term of
Contract
_______                                                                                                  _____             -           - u  ~fF 0XyC   t-00F7  -,=E-,X
S8A 2.26         Operations and Mainteance Manuls____
SA 2.2.6 (1)     * prepare Operations   * within 180 days after    Program         100%         100%
and Maintenance       the Starting Date                                              I
Manuals              j _
0 



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                       Page 5 of 23   E
SERVICE                                                                          FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX        DESCRIPTION OF          PERFORMANCE          DELIVERABLES    YEAR                                                   G)
SECTION #           SERVICE               STANDARD                               TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4           9 m
SA 2.2.6 (2)      training re:          * within 30 days after  Program            100%        100%                                  cn
Operations and        approval by the PWA of                     - ongoing
Maintenance Manuals  the Operations and                          throughout
Maintenance Manuals                       the term of
Contract
SA 2.2.7         Energy Management Plan                                                                                              CD
SA 2.2.7 (1)     - prepare the Energy   * within 90 days after the  Plan         | 100%        100%            l
Management Plan       Starting Date          _                                                l
SA 2.2.9         Unregistered Connections                                                                                            -
SA 2.2.9 (1)     - develop the          * within 60 days after the  Program        100%        100%
Unregistered          Starting Date
Connections Program
SA 2.2.10        Staff Training and Development
SA 2.2.10 (1)    * develop Training and   * within 180 days after    Program       100%        100%
Development Program   the Starting Date
SA 2.2.10 (2)    * implement the        * ongoing              Implementation      100%                                  100%
Training and          * commencing no later                      * ongoing
Development Program   than 30 days after                         throughout                                        m
approval by the PWA of                    the term of                                        _.
the Training and                          Contract
Development Program
(0
SA 2.2.10(3)     * develop Merit        * within 30 days after the  Program        100%        100%                                  o
Payment Program       Starting Date                                                                                 ,
______         ~~~~~CD   X



Perfonnance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                          Page 6 of 23   (D
Oc
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                  IE
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4            . S
SA 2.2.11          develop wellhead       within 120 days after    Program           100%        100%
protection program    the Starting Date                                                                  I3
0
SA 2.2.12 (1)    *develop program for   *within 90 days after the  Program           100%        100%,
the periodic flushing of  Starting Date
sewers
SA 2.3.1.1 (1) (a)   conduct physical     within 60 days after the  Inspection       100%        100%
inspection             Starting Date 
SA 2.3.1.1 (1)   * prepare the Initial  * within 60 days after the  Program          100%        100%
(b)              Condition Survey        Starting Date
SA 2.3.1.1 (3)   * develop and           * program is developed    Program/          100%        100%
implement a program to  as part of the Annual  Implementation
correct deficiencies   OIF Plan
* begin implementation
within 120 days after the
Starting Date                                                                                 0
SA 2.3.10.2      Final C4ndition Surve   _                                         i
SA 2.3.1.2 (1)   * prepare the Final     * no later than 60 days    Plan            100%                                  1100%         0 >
Condition Survey and    prior to the End Date                                                                         CD
remediation plan    l          l                                  _



Perfonnance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                          Page 7 of 23    o 
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3o
SERVICE            .                                                               FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR  j                                                                      Q
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA 2.3.2         Improvements to the Facilities and Overall System Performance                                                          0
SA 2.3.2 (1) (a)   - correct deficiencies  - spending on deficiency correction in a  100%        15%      50%      100%                 X
identified in the Initial   Contract Year compared to the total estimated
Condition Survey       cost of the correction of all deficiencies
Appendix                                                                                                              3
SA 2.3.2 (1) (b)   * increase Accounted  * % Accounted for water (See Endnote 1 for  75%         60%      67%      72%      75%        -@
for Water - Applies to   method of calculation)
both Hebron and
Bethlehem
-c
SA 2.3.2 (1) (c)   * improve the         * Percent of month with continuous piped water  70%     40%      50%      60%      70%
Constancy of Supply    supply for all customers (See Endnote 2 for
method of calculation) % based on 720 hours
per month
SA 2.3.2 (1) (d)   * repair and replace  * number of meters-Bethlehem Governorate   2000         500      1500
water meters and piping
* number of meters-Hebron Govemorate       4000         500      3000    500
-service connection replacements-Bethlehem  3500        500      1000    1000    1000
Govemorate
*service connection replacements - Hebron  5000         500      1500    1500    1500
Govemorate                                                                                     >
*KM piping replacement-Bethlehem           70           15       30       25                   B.
Govemorate
*KM piping replacement-Hebron Govemorate   30           5        10       10       5           3



Perfornance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                            Page 8 of 23
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR               YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                   I YrE
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4
2.
SA 2.4.1 ~   Information 6Sytms 11Bi tilngs,Coletionadl usro 5cr Serice              =                                               c i: X  
SA 2.4.1 (1)      * establish a          * within 180 days after    Database          100%        100%                                   u
computerized data base  the Starting Date                                                                              3
of Customers
SA 2.4.1 (2)      * develop or upgrade   * prior to the expiration    System         100%         100%                                   CD
and update             of the first Contract Year                                                                      _
computerized
administrative system
SA 2.4.1 (3)      * implement or upgrade   * prior to the expiration   Implementation  100%                100%                         -X
computerized           of the second Contract    and Upgrading
administrative systems   Year
and update as
applicable
S242Gera Impoeet  lllingS.iZ0vs , Colci?n nd ECu :t ae Cr Servic=
SA 2.4.2 (1)      * develop the Billings    * within 150 days after    Plan and      100%         100%
and Collection         Starting Date           Implementation
Improvement Plan
SA 2.4.2 (2) (a)    * develop and        * prior to the expiration    Program and    100%         100%
implement a customer   of the first Contract Year  Implementation                                                       o
service training
program                                                                                                                >
C,)
0>
8>



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                          Page 9 of 23    0 C
3Dm
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                         G)
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA 2.4.2 (2) (b)   develop and          - complete within 180    Program and        100%         100%                                   n.
implement a water and   days after contract    Implementation
wastewater public      Starting Date                                                                                  0
information and
education program                                                                                                     O
SA 2.6           Institutional Development Regional Water Utility                                                                      CD__
SA 2.6 (1)       * develop Regional     * prior to the expiration    Report          100%                          100%
Water Utility Report    of the third Contract                                                                         0
Year
SA 2.7           * develop and           * develop program       Program            100%                                               CD
implement field        within 60 days after the                    * ongoing
inspection program     Starting Date                              throughout
the term of
implement program on                      Contract
an ongoing basis
ol
r-5
Be
CDX
s)
D3



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                         Page 10 of 23    c
_  D
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                GI
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1_Year 2  Year 3  Year 4    @ )
CO)
0~
SA 3.2 (1) (a)   * operate and maintain    * Quality Operating  Implementation in   1.5          1.1      1.2      1.35     1.5_
and (b)          the Bethlehem          Standards                accordance with                                                       0
Governorate Water      * In accordance with    Financial Operating
Distribution System    Financial Operating     Ratio                                                                  C
Ratio Standards (see
Endnote #3 for                                                                                 -u
0*
calculation)
SA 3.2 (2) (a)   * implement the        * full implementation   Plan and            100%                  100%
wellhead protection    prior to the expiration of  Implementation
plan                   the second Contract                                                                            C
Year
SA 3.2 (2) (b) (i),  * ensure pump      * Quality Operating
(ii), (iii) and (v)    operability and  Standards
functionality
* ensure main water
pipe functionality
* ensue metre
functionality
* day to day repairs
SA 3.2 (2) (b)   * manage the           * maintain residual level                   As identified in SA 3.2(2)(c)(i)                   0
(iv)             chlorination of water to  of chlorine in
ensure that water      distribution samples
quality Performance                                                                                                   C
Standards are met
8>
CDX



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                         Page 11 of 23   cD
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                        EG)
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA 3.2 (2) (c) (i)  * manage the         * maintain chlorine residual of 1 ppm in    100%        60%      90%      100%    100%
chlorination and      identified per cent of distribution samples
chemical treatment to                                                                                                 0
ensure water quality                                                                                                  3
Performance Standards                                                                                                 a
are met                                                                                                               CD3
SA 3.2 (2) (c) (ii)  - manage the wells in  Quality Operating Standards             As measured by the improvement in Accounted for
and (iii)        accordance with                                                    Water
instructions and
schedules provided to
the Operator by the
PWA
* day to day repairs                                                                                                   4
SA 3.2 (2) (d)   * add meters to meter    * Quality Operating    Implementation      100 %
the flows of water     Standards                                   * ongoing
throughout
the term of
Contract
SA 3.2 (2) (e)   * install service      * Quality Operating      Implementation      100 %
and (f)          connection and          Standards                                  * ongoing
extensions for new                                                throughout
customers                                                         the term of                                         0
Contract
0>
3,x



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                         Page 12 of 23    0
3w
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                       X
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4            X g
SA 3.2 (2) (g)   * cooperate in fire     * Quality Operating     Implementation     100 %                                               a
protection and maintain  Standards                                 - ongoing
fire hydrants                                                     throughout                                          o
the term of
Contract                                           a
3
SA 3.2 (2) (i)   * repair and maintain all  * Quality Operating  Implementation     100 %        As measured by improvement in          3
vehicles and equipment  Standards                                  - ongoing    Financial Operating Ratio
throughout                                        (D
the term of
Contract
00
SA 3.3 (1)       * operate and maintain    * Quality Operating   Implementation     100 %        As measured by lack of complaints
wastewater facilities  Standards                                   * ongoing    regarding flooding and sewerage in
throughout  the streets
the term of
Contract
SA 3.3 (2) (a)   * specific activities for   * Quality Operating  Implementation    100%                  100%
through (f)      operating and           Standards                                  * ongoing
maintaining the                                                   throughout
wastewater facilities                                             the term of
Contract                                           a
0>
DX
a_,4



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - Aprii 1999                                           Page 13 of 23   CD
._______ I________   __________ ___________________________                                                                           CDW
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR               YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  l Year 3 l  Year 4
SA 34             Water and Wastewater Operations and Maintenance Procurement                                                            X
SA 3.4 (1)        * procurement of goods    Bethlehem            As measured by improvements in Accounted for Water and Financial
and services for day to   Procurement Guidelines   Operating Ratio
day operations and
maintenance                                                                                                            C
CD
SA 3.4 (2) (a)    * develop Bethlehem    * within 60 days after the  Guidelines       100%        100%
and (b)           Procurement            Starting Date
Guidelines
SA 3.4 (4)        * implement            * ongoing               Implementation       100 %
Procurement                                                        * ongoing
Guidelines with respect                                            throughout
to day to day operations                                           the term of
and maintenance                                                    Contract
SA 3.5            Water and Wastewater Operations Improvements
SA 3.5 (1) (a)     implement water       * in accordance with     Implementation      100%        As measured by annual reports
quality monitoring     approved plan
program                * ongoing
SA 3.5 (1) (b)    * implement the Safety   * in accordance with   Implementation      100%        25%       100%
Deficiencies Correction  approved plan
Plan                   * by the end of second                                                             I
Contract Year                                                                                   >
0>
( 3
CD>



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                            Page 14 of 23    CD
CD OJ
SERVICE                                                                              FOUR               YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                            G)
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                 TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4
SA 3.5 (1) (c)    * implement the Safety   * in accordance with   Implementation      100 %                                                ,
Program                approved plan                                * ongoing
- ongoing                                   throughout                                           0
the term of
Contract
CD
SA 3.5 (1) (d)    * implement the         * in accordance with    Implementation      100%         25%       50%      75%      100%
Emergency Response    approved plan
Plan                   * conduct mock drills
SA 3.5 (1) (e)    * implement the Energy   * Percent reduction in  Implementation     20%          2.5%     5.0%      10%      20%
Management Plan        electricity per unit of
water delivered                                                                                  a
SA 3.5 (1) (f)    * implement the         * Percent of approved   Implementation      100%         10%      25%       60%      100%
Unregistered           program
Connections Program
SA 3.5 (1) (g)    * implement wastewater  * Quality Operating     Implementation      100%                   100%
collection systems     Standards
programs
CD
0~
SA 3.6            Water and Wastewater Maintenance Improvements T The Computerized Maintenance Management System
SA 3.6 (1) (a)    * evaluate CMMS       T within 150 days of      Evaluation/         100%         100%                                    X
and (b)           software and            Starting Date           Recommendation                                                           oD
recommend system                                                                                                        CD 
CD4



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                      Page 15 of 23
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~CD   C
l                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3W
SERVICE                                                                          FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX        DESCRIPTION OF          PERFORMANCE          DELIVERABLES    YEAR                               G_
SECTION #           SERVICE               STANDARD                               TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
.X
SA 3.6 (a)       * implement approved    * by end of 2nd Contract  Implementation  100%                 100%                         Co
CMMS                  Year                                                                                         ,
0
SA 3.6 (b)        Maintain CMMS         * in accordance with   Implementation     100%
manufacturer's                            * ongoing
standards                                 throughout                                        (9
ongoing                                  the term of                                       3D
Contract
CD
SA 3.7           Billings and Collections                                                                                            a -  .  _
SA 3.7 (1) (a)   * read Customer meters  * PWA instructions    Inplementation     100 %
through (i)      * develop billings     a Quality Operating                       ' ongoing                                          D
* resolve billing     Standards                                  throughout
anomalies and                                                    the term of
complaints                                                       Contract
* issue bills
SA 3.7 (3)       * collect bills        * PWA instructions     Implementation      100%
* record outstanding  * Quality Operating                        - ongoing
amounts               Standards                                  throughout
* institute overdue                                              the term of
collection activities                                            Contract
* maintain records of
individual Customer                                                                                                O
accounts                                                                                                           >
9,
0>
~1CD
CDX<
c,



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                           Page 16 of 23    c 1
CD 
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                   I        I
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year21 Year3   Year4
._
SA 3.8           Customer Service                                                                                                        co
SA 3.8 (1) (a)    * carry out registration    - Quality Operating  Implementation     100%
through (d)       and implementation of   Standards                                  * ongoing
new water and                                                      throughout
wastewater service                                                 the term of                                         CD
connections                                                        Contract                                            X
* resolve customer
complaints                                                                                                            CD
* maintain customer
register
SA 3.8 (1)(e)    * establish customer    * PWA instructions      Implementation      100%                  100%
service offices        * Quality Operating
Standards
SA 3.9           improvement to          * in accordance with    Implementation      100%                  100%
billings, collections and  approved programs
customer service
CD
8>
ICD
CDx



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                          Page 17 of 23    CD
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                           G E
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA 4              SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED IN THE HEBRON GOVERNORATE,                                                                     Q
SA 4.3           Water and Wastewater Operations                                                                                         X
SA 4.3 (1) (a)   -Manage the chlorine    *maintain residual of 1    Technical        100%         60%      90%      100%    100%
treatment to ensure    ppm in identified per   Assistance and                                                          <
3
Performance Standards   cent of distribution   Maintained                                                              C
are met                samples                 Residual                                                                O
0*
SA 4.3 (1) (b)   * provide technical     * Quality Operating     Technical           100%
through (c)      support and advice for   Standards              Assistance          * ongoing
operations and                                                     throughout                                          X
maintenance of                                                     the term of                                          D
* pumping and                                                      Contract
transportation of water,
chlorination of water
and distribution of
water
* management of wells
operated by local
govemment
* collection of
wastewater, pumping
and transfer of
wastewater to receiving                                                                                                CD
bodies
00>
Ox
CD X



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                       Page 18 of 23   cD
,X3
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR             YEARLY TARGET                  3
APPENDIX        DESCRIPTION OF          PERFORMANCE           DELIVERABLES    YEAR                                                   G 1  1
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                               TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
SA441             Provid TehiaSpotad Advc to implemen] t 4.4(l)a throu.......................1gh (h)X ___X____
SA 4.4(1)(a)     * water quality        *in accordance with     Technical          100%
monitoring program    Approved program        Assistance          * ongoing
* ongoing                                 throughout
the term of                                       m
Contract
SA 4.4(1)(b)     -Safety Deficiencies   * by end of second      Technical          100%                  100%
Correction Plan       contract year           Assistance                                                            m
SA 4.4(l)(c)     *Safety Program        * in accordance with    Technical          100%                                               D
approved program       Assistance          * ongoing
- ongoing throughout the                   throughout
term of Contract                           the term of
Contract
SA 4.4(1)(d)     -Emergency Response   * in accordance with     Technical
Plan                  approved Plan           Assistance
SA 4.4(l)(e)     *Energy Management    * in accordance with     Technical          20%          2.5%     5%       10%     20%
Plan                  approved Plan           Assistance and %
*Reduction of KWIHR    reduction
per MCM of water
delivered
SA 4.4(l)(f)     *Unregistered          * in accordance with    Technical          100%         10%      25%     60%      100%        B
Connections Program    approved program       Assistance and %                                                        >
reduction          _3 CD
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ ___ ._ _ _ _  __ _ -  (CD X



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                            Page 19 of 23   CD
SERVICE                                                                              FOUR               YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF   PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                 TARGET   Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4 X
SA 4.4(1)(g)      *Wellhead Protection   * approved program       Program             100%'                                                Co
Program                                                             ongoing
throughout                                          0
the term of
Contract
CD
SA 4.4 (1)(h)     * wastewater collection   * Approved Program    Program             100%                   100%
system programs
CD,
SA 4.5            * provide technical      meet Financial         Technical           1.3          1.0       1.1      1.2      1.3
support and advice to    Operating Ratio        Assistance and
implement billing,     requirements (See        Meeting                                                                 CD
collections and        Endnote 3 for
customer service       calculation)
programs
0>
RD x



Perfonnance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                         Page 20 of 23   CD
SERVICE                                                                            FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                        1                   __
SECTION #            SERVICE               STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year             C-
03
|SA 51            Prpr B...;|4 i Montfly Repor0 :ts              ___-_.,__-_,_________0 
SA 5.1 (1)       * report on programs to   * Quality Operating   Reports            100%*
improve day to day     Standards                                  ongoing
operations and                                                    throughout
maintenance of the                                                the term of
facilities                                                        Contract                                           CD
SA 5.1 (2)       * report on programs to   * Quality Operating  Reports             100%
improve physical       Standards                                  * ongoing                                           X
infrastructure and                                                throughout
system performance                                                the term of                                         O
Contract
SA 5.1 (3)       * report on programs to   * Quality Operating  Reports             100%
improve billings,      Standards                                  - ongoing
collections and                                                   throughout
customer service                                                  the term of
Contract
SA 5.1 (4)       * report on operations    * Quality Operating  Reports             100%
and maintenance for    Standards                                  * ongoing
Bethlehem Govemorate                                              throughout                                         0*
operations                                                        the term of
Contract                                           0
Li>
0
l  3



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                          Page 21 of 23   CD
CDW
SERVICE                                                                             FOUR              YEARLY TARGET
APPENDIX   DESCRIPTION OF    PERFORMANCE   DELIVERABLES   YEAR                                                                           O
SECTION #            SERVICE                STANDARD                                TARGET   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4            9> 0
CDN
SA 5.1 (5)       * report on the CMMS    - Quality Operating     Reports             100%                                                ,
Standards                                   X ongoing
throughout
the term of
Contract
SA 5.1 (6)       * report on operations    * Quality Operating   Reports             100%                                                B
and maintenance        Standards                                   * ongoing
improvements in                                                    throughout                                          CD
accordance with                                                    the term of
approved programs                                                  Contract
SA 5.2           Annual Report           * Quality Operating     Reports             100%                                                n
Standards                                   * ongoing                                           4
throughout
the term of
Contract
0>
CD
CD x



Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                     Page 22 of 23    CD
a
CD U
0.
Endnotes to the Performance Standards Appendix
03
C,,
_D
METHODS OF CALCULATION
Z0
% Accounted for Water
0
Total water measured on customer meters during a 12 month period (CM)
% Accounted for Water =     --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- x 10 0
Total water supplied to the system by local wells and WBWD
During the same 12 month period (CM)
2.     Constancy of Supply
The Constancy of Supply will be measured as an average percentage of the time in which 100% of the customers have piped
water supply available during the peak season (April through September). The Operator will install sufficient recording
devices (flow and or pressure measuring devices) financed from the Operating Investment Fund and installed in locations
identified by the PWA, to record the measurement of flow in the pipeline.
Number of recorded hours of flow for April through September
Average % of continuous flow       -------------------------------------------------------------------------- x 100
6 months x 720 hours/month
0*
CD
a
0
3
CDX
(DX
a3-



Performnance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999                                                    Page 23 of 23    l 1
CD 0
q )
3.     Financial Operating Ratio
The Financial Operating Ratio is a measurement of the billed revenue compared to the operations and maintenance expenses                      Q
for a fiscal year. The Ratio is calculated for each service area; i.e. all of the Bethlehem Govemorate and all of the Hebron
Govemorate.
0
CD
CD
Total Annual Billed Revenue for Govemorate Water and Wastewater Operations
Financial Operating Ratio =----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------         X
Total Annual Operations and Maintenance Expenses for Water and Wastewater Operations
CD)
10841088 - Performance Standards Appendix - Execution Copy - West Bank and Gaza - April 1999
_
1>
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
-4_



West Bank and Gaza                                                                              Annex 8
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect    Page 70                  Project Appraisal Document
Annex 8
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                       Actual*
(At final PCD stage)
$323                          $230
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                        Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)**          10                            10
First Bank mission (preparation)                  11/02/1997                    11/02/1997
Appraisal mission departure                       11/13/1998                    11/13/1998
Negotiations                                       12/1998                      11/29/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      06/1999
Prepared by:                              Palestinian Water Authority, European Investment Bank
and the World'Bank
Preparation assistance:                   PHRD TF25464 for US$250,000
Staff who worked on the project included:  PWA Team:
Eng. Fadel Kawash, Deputy Head
Dr. Ihab Barghouthi, Head of Technical Counterpart Team
Eng. Nael Tahseen
Eng. Isa Attallah
Eng. Mahmoud Abu Diah
Eng. Musbah Tahboub
World Bank Team:
Jamal Saghir, Sector Leader (MNSID)
Hans Gruss, Chief Counsel (LEGMN)
Etienne Linard, Regional Procurement Advisor (MNAVP)
Fred Kranz, Senior Procurement Specialist (MNAVP)
Suhail Jme'an, Financial Analyst (MNSID)
Andrew Macoun, Sr. Sanitary Engineer (MNSRE)
Ayman Abu-Haija, Financial Management Specialist (MNSID)
Hiba Tahboub, Projects Officer (MNCWG)
Srish Kumar, Economist (ECSSD)
Sonia Wheeler, Team Assistant (MNSID)
Klas Ringskog, Peer Reviewer (LCSFP)
Peter Koenig, Peer Reviewer (MNSRE)
EIB Appraisal Team:
Mr. Alberto Barragan
Ms. Bettina Muscheidt
Mr. Eckart Tronnier
Mr. Jukka Piekkari
Consultant Advisors to PWA:               Wiley Archer, Water Engineer
Judy Wilson, Lawyer
Hiba Husseini, Lawyer
* As of 03/31/99
** From PCD Review Meeting on 1/26/98 through Negotiations



West Bank and Gaza                                                                   Annex 9
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Imorovement Project    Page 71       Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 9
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.  Project Implementation Plan
1. Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project (SAWSIP), Project Implementation
Plan, PWA, November 26, 1998.
2. SAWSIP, Environmental Management Plan, PWA, November 26, 1998.
B.  Bank Staff Assessments
1. Economic Analysis.*
2. Financial Analysis.*
3. Economic Analysis, Main Assumptions: Note to Files, January 12, 1999.
4. West Bank and Gaza, Public Expenditure Review, February 25, 1999.
4. Signed LACI Certification on Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements.
C.  Other
1. Strategy for Water Management in Palestine, PWA, May 1998.
2. PWA, Water Tariff Study by Norconsult, December 1998.
3. PWA, Draft Water Law, October 1998.
4. Palestinian Development Plans, PA, 1998-2000 and 1999-2003.
5. West Bank Water and Sanitation Project, METAP Study on Project Design, PWA/EIIB, July
1998.
6.  PWA, Review of Financial Management System by Arthur Andersen, November 24, 1998.
7. PWA, Design and Implementation of Financial Management System: Accounting, Personnel
& Administration Policies and Procedures, Project Management Unit Structure and Job
Descriptions Manual by Arthur Andersen, April 1999.
D.  Performance-Based Management Contract
1. PWA, Performance-Based Management, Operation and Maintenance Contract for the
Provision of Water and Wastewater Services, Request for Prequalifications.
2. PWA, Performance-Based Management Contract, West Bank, Request for Proposals
Documents, October 23, 1998.
3.  PWA, Initialed Performance-Based Management Contract for the Provision of Water and
Wastewater Services, April 1999.
*Including electronic files.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                                     Annex 10
Southem Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect      Page 72                                    Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 10
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of April 19, 1999
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions   and actual
disbursements a/
Project ID   Fiscal
Year          Borrower                     Purpose             IBRD   IDA   Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
53985         1999   PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PA   BETHLEHEM 2000                    25.00  0.00   0.00    21.68    3.13      0.00
40503         1998   GOVERNMENT               GAZA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE           11.00  0.00   1.00     9.04     2.35     0.00
47067         1998   WELFARE ASSOCIATION   PALESTINIANNGO PROJECT              14.55  0.00   0.00    11.14    -1.14     0.98
40505         1997   PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PA   WATER&SAN. SERV./GAZA             25.00  0.00   0.00     9.13     7.19     0.00
43338         1997   PALESTINIAN AUTHOR    HOUSING                             25.00  0.00   0.00    24.95     5.75     0.00
47065         1997   PLO                      MICROENTERPRISES-IFC              5.00  0.00   0.00     4.50     2.30     0.50
47110         1997   PECDAR                   COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT             10.00  0.00   0.00     0.39     0.66     0.00
47111         1997   PLO                      LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                 5.50  0.00   0.00     4.62     2.78     0.00
49708         1997   PALESTNIAN AUTHOR.   PAL. EXPAT. PROF. PROGRAM             3.00  0.00   0.00     2.85     0.80     0.00
43339         1996   PLO/PALESTINIAN AUTH   MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT              40.00  0.00   0.00    10.22     0.54     0.00
45576         1996   PECDAR                   EMERGENCY REHAB II               23.49  0.00   0.00     0.07    -1.68     1.52
35996         1995   PECDAR                   EDUC. & HEALTH REHAB             41.85  0.00   0.00    15.32    -1.09     8.71
Total                                                                         229.39  0.00   1.00   113.91    21.59.    11.71
ActiPj              Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    114.61               100.97              215.58
of which has been repaid:                         0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    228.40               103.54               331.94
Amount sold        :                                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid  :                                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
TotalUndisbursed   :                               113.91                2.65                116.56
a. Intended disbursements to date mninus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of February 28, 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval           Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic           Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
1994             APIB                      0.00     3.80       0.00      0.00         0.00      3.73       0.00        0.00
1997             Arab Bank                 0.00     0.00       3.00      0.00         0.00      0.00       0.10        0.00
1997             ComBankPalestine          0.00     0.00       1.50      0.00         0.00      0.00        0.15       0.00
1997             Jordan National           0.00     0.00       3.00      0.00         0.00      0.00       0.20        0.00
1997             PIECO                     8.00     1.00       0.00      0.00         0.00       1.00       0.00       0.00
1997             SEF Arab Concrete         0.80     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00
1997             SEF Nabahin               0.50     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.50      0.00        0.00       0.00
1998             PTF                       0.00    11.90       0.00      0.00         0.00      2.38        0.00       0.00
1998             PTF-Mgt. Co.              0.00     0.20       0.00      0.00         0.00      0.04        0.00       0.00
1998             SEF Al-Ayyam              1.80     0.00       0.00      0.00         1.80      0.00        0.00       0.00
1998             SEF Pharmacare            0.41     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.41      0.00        0.00       0.00
1999             SEF Cold Storage          0.20     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00
1999             SEF Jericho Motel         1.17     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.80      0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:    12.88    16.90        7.50      0.00        3.51       7.15       0.45       0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitment
Loan    Equitv    Ouasi    Partic
1994             APIB                    15.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1999             PMHC                    15.00      4.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   30.00           4.00       0.00      0.00



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                                                         Annex 11
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Proiect                Page 73                                          Project Appraisal Document
Annex I 1
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
West Bank and Gaza at a Glance
West   M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                      Bank &   & North  mifddle-'
Gaza=    Afka  income         Developrmint diamond*
Ponula1tion m4- 1 997 mSlhors                               2.5       283    2,285
GNPoercapita 1997 1USS)                                   1,597     2,060    1,230
GNP 1997(milions US$1'                                    3,984       583    2,818                  Life expectancy
GDP oercapita 1997 (USS)                                  1.361
GDP 1997 (mifions US$SJ'                                  3T96
Average annual growth, 19-96                                                                               T
Popuiation (%)                                              5.5       2.3       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor force M%J                                             83        3,2       1,3     per                            n . prolime
Most recent estiimte                                                                    capita                 1   no       nt
Poverty: headwcint index (% ofpoation)                       24
Urbtn populatbon (% of totalpopulfation)                     70        57       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             70        67       69                 Access to safe water
Infant nortality per 7,000 live2 hfihs                       28        48       3A
Child milnutrition (% of chilldren under 5)                   -        1 0
Access to safe water l`% of population)                      90        71       84
1literacy (Mof population age 15.;                           16        39       19
Gross Primary enrollment (% of school-age90u/itaton)         91        97      t11                 WBG
Male                                                      91        102      116                  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                     92        91      113            _         ._      ____
KEY ECONOMIC RAtIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985      1995      1996     1997
GOP (mi/ons  fS$)                               1.Z05     3,288     3413    3,396       Economic ratos'
Gross domestic invesirientIGOP                     29        36        34       34
Gross domestic investment/GOP inci. net errors     13        36        25       23               Openness of economy
Expos of goods and non-factor services/GOP         30        17        18       20
Gross domestic svmngs/GOP                         -31        -8       -27      -29
Gross national savings/GDP                          2        25         4        1
Current account baiance/GDP (excl. off, transfers)  -11     -27       -36      -'34
Current account balanc/GDP (int,. off, transfers)  -11      -11       -21      ,21
Interest payments/GDP                               -Savings                                                        lvestment
Total debt/GOP                                                t         lst 3mn,
Total debt service/exports                         ..
Present value of debt/GDP                           -
Present value of detbexports
19t5-94      7998       1     1997                      Indebtedness
iaver,ae annual re  grolwit)
GOP                                               7%       -5%       -1%        1%
GNP                                               5%       -4%        -3%      3%                   WBG
GOP per capita                                    3%      -f 1%                                   - - - Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capita                                    1%      -10%        -'8%     -'3%                       _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1985      1995      1996     1997     Growth rates of output and investment
(Y. of GDPfc)                                                                          (%)
Agriculture                                        20        15        16       16      40
Industry                                           25        27        24       24
Construction                                      17        10         9        9      30-.
Private Services                                   38        39        36       36      20
Public Services                                    17        20        24       24      10
(% of GDP)
Private consumption                               118        93       104      104        0-  YI   92   93   94                97
General government consumption                     13        15        23       25    4104
Imports of goods and non-factor services           75       61         69       72                          GDP   " GDI
1985-94     1995       1996     1997
(avenage annual real growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports
Agrculture                                         14        -8        12        -1
Manufactunng                                       10        31       -12        4      DO
Construction                                        9         8        -4       -4        T
Private Services                                   10       -13        -8        3      40
Public Services                                     5         4        18        3      20
Private consumption                                 4        -t        11        1       a 
General government consumption                      7       -24        56        3               995                          9
Imports of goods and non-factor services            8         ..       ..p..
Exports of goods and non-factor services            3         ..        ..       ..8xpors   -                             mports
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
1/ Excludes East Jerusalem.
2/ Not calculated using the Atlas method.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



West Bank and Gaza                                                                                                                            Annex 11
Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project                 Paae 74                                            Proiect Appraisal Document
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1985      1995      1996      1997
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumerpnces                                     289         10        11         8     30_
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                    20 4
P0. -                 e
Government finance
(% of GDP)o                                                                                       l                 l      l     l
Current revenue                                     11        16        20       24       91    92    93    94    95   9s    97
Current expenditure                                  9        18        23       25
Current budget balance                               2        -2        -3        -1                   -G OP def.    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -1        ..         ..       ..
TRADE
1985      1995      1996      1997
(millions USS)
Total exports of goods (fob)                      272        414       450      459      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total imports of goods (fob)                      668      1,784     2,123    2,196      2snx
Export price index (1986=100)                        ..                  ..                        I.                    .
Import price index (1986=100)                        ..        ..
Terms of trade (1986=100)                            ..                            .E E                                U    E
90  91  92  93  94  95  9s
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1985      1995      1996      1997             aExports    mlmports
(millions USS)
Exports of goods and non-factor services          305        558       598      671
Imports of goods and non-factor services          750      2,014     2,369    2,439
Resource balance                                  -445    -1,457    -1,771   -1,768
Net factor income                                 227        533       469      524
Net current transfers-Private                     108         40        75       77       Current account balance to GDP ratIo
Net current transfers-Govt. (official grants)       0        516       509      441       (percentage, excl. offiatransfers)
Current account balance,                         -110       -367      -718      -725
before official grants                          -110      -883    -1,227   -1,167      -10
Financing items (net)                               ..
Changes in net reserves                              ..       ..         ..       ..   -20
Memo:
-30
Required reserves with PMA (mill US$)               ..        44       184      239
Conversion rate (NlS'USs)                          1.2      3.01      3.18      3.47     40
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1985      1995      1996      1997
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD                                              ..
IDA                                               ..       23         50      103
otal deot service                                  ..
ItbiRL                                            ..
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   ..      441        548      541
Official creditors                                ..        21        27       54
Private creditors                                 ..
Foreign direct investment                         ..
Portfolio equity                                  ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                       ..        20        85       69
Disbursements                                     ..       21         27       53
Principal repayments                              ..
Net flows                                         ..       21         27       53
Interest payments                                 ..
Net transfers                                     ..       21         27       53
WorId Bank Raident Mission - West Bank and Gaza                                                                            01/27/99



IBRRD 30052
2                                                                         555550~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,14 Ia I ,i
WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                                                                                                                                                             Y         4
SOUTHERN AREA WATER AND                                                                         EJERUSALEM                                                                                   .                                 tsaau4 J
SANITATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                        .N-                                                                                        - -    tO.NA  I  $  h  Nabla, f
WATER SUPPLY NETWORKS IN THE                                                                                                                                                 f             _                IELA -WE
GOVERNORATES OF BETHLEHEM AND HEBRON                                        ElK             '"'       -                                                                                         -   ,                            BANK
ji                                                                                                                MJE=co'sec S- |awIo,  0                    AMM|AN
- ~~~~~~~,
|~    K,aS                                            Al fara'  ADeirr Sara                               >' O  ,I'bI ~_                                  - B:Iaa    i   MEsb1AM DaiNM
4~~~~~~ qm -s isia n                                                ,       'o\Cf=  ~-                                                                                                         iN CAE
X~~~ ~                                                                                           ~ ~~~~~~ 44E EIbd                                                                                   U
E*abods                                                                                                                             ISRAEL
\$.X                                                                                                                                      ';                                              ^-d p.anyjAc Jabs   Hy mp,>  Sar
E l 
-,  Iansbi'3   ~~          Eas frlrad11 I        BTHLEHEM
A.'                                              -da-                                                                                         95i5ISAEL  PALESTINIAN)
NXISWORK PNETWORK
t                                                   5 CAPITAL INVESTMENT PACKCITIE
cr, - 5)                                                H-d;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                 A VIcAGE
,er~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                       FIN~SnARMSTCEDB DERAION
'y                                          5.0 H-di.,, 2                                                                                                   VO  RESERVOIRS~~~0  2
0    N/L   -                                                                   5/~~~                                                                   -TWRKN~
IT*  o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Cc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       CTE
r                                                                      K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   HRB/AP
NsA CI  'Arab Ar   adin ~ ~   ~       (D2
VILLAGES~~~ARI T99



