Report No. PID5996
Project Name                     West Bank and Gaza-Southern Area Water...
and Sanitation Improvement Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       GZSF51564
Implementing Agency              The Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
P.O. Box 331, Gaza City, Gaza
Eng. Nabil El-Sharif, Commissioner
Tel:    972-7-823-407
Fax:    972-7-824-044
The Palestinian Water Authority
P.O. Box 891, Ramallah, West Bank
Mr. Fadle Kawash, Deputy Commissioner
Tel:    972-2-574-7147
Fax:    972-2-574-7148
Environmental Category           B
Date of Initial PID              February 3, 1998
Projected Appraisal              October 1998
Projected Board Date             January 1999
Sector Background
1.      Water and wastewater services in the southern area of the West
Bank are inadequate to meet the needs of the population - in terms
of quantity, quality and the adequacy of management. Groundwater,
the only resource available other than rainwater capture, is
available only from deep aquifers that are not well understood and
expensive to develop. Distribution systems suffer from serious
losses (around 50%) as a result of poor construction, substandard
materials, the corrosive environment, inadequate maintenance, and
illegal connections. Services are intermittent and pressures highly
variable, with inadequate pressure zoning, resulting in regular and
severe stressing of the system and frequent pipe bursts. Tariffs
are inadequate to recover costs, and collection efficiency is poor.
Wastewater services are limited and treatment ineffective or not
provided. Finally, despite serious shortage of water resources,
water reuse is not practiced.
2.      Some activities funded by various donors to improve the
situation are already underway, including, among other things:
drilling of new wells to alleviate the shortage of bulk water
supplies; network mapping in Bethlehem and Hebron; and improved
metering and leak detection and repair. However, more action is
needed, particularly to upgrade services, improve management
capacity and the efficiency of operation and maintenance of water
and sanitation services.



Project Objectives
3.      The development objectives of the project are to:    (i) improve
the sufficiency and efficiency of water and wastewater services to
customers in terms of quality, quantity and management by building
on existing authorities - the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
(WSSA) for Bethlehem, Beit Jala, and Beit Sahour, and the Water
Departments of the Municipality of Hebron and the villages in the
southern West Bank; and (ii) prepare for and implement an
appropriate institutional framework for water and wastewater service
provision including the implementation of a performance-based
management contract and building regulatory and institutional
capacity in the PWA.
Project Description
4.      The proposed project would consist of five components:    (a)
provision of a private sector company (Operator) under a
performance-based Management Contract to manage the water and
wastewater services in the southern area of the West Bank; (b)
providing the Operator with funds built into the Management
Contract, in order to fund essential operations and maintenance; (c)
provision of finance for a capital investment program to
rehabilitate, improve and to provide additional facilities in areas
where they are most urgently required; (d) rural investment to
support extension of water supply and sanitation improvements in
selected villages in the West Bank which have inoperative or no
piped water supply at all and where sanitation services are
particularly deficient; and (d) Technical Assistance for developing
institutional capacity, planning and preparation of future service
improvements, and hiring of independent auditors to monitor the
management contractor's performance.
Project Cost and Financing
5.      The total project cost is estimated to be approximately US$52
million of which the World Bank may contribute approximately US$20
million. A PHRD grant of US$250,000 has been provided by the
Government of Japan for project preparation.
Project Implementation
6.      The PWA will be the executing agency and will have overall
responsibility for project coordination. A Project Management Unit
(PMU) would be established to facilitate effective monitoring and
implementation of the project. A Project Manager will report
directly to the PWA and will be responsible for following the day-
to-day project activities and coordination with the Operator. The
Project Manager will also be responsible for monitoring performance
indicators during the implementation period. The Operator will be
responsible for managing water and wastewater services in the
project area under a 4-year performance-based management contract.
Project Sustainability
-2-



7.      The introduction of a private sector operator to manage and
operate water and wastewater services in the southern area of the
West Bank will ensure sound financial management and improve cost
recovery. Additionally, implementation of appropriate institutional
framework for water and wastewater services along with building
regulatory and institutional capacity in the PWA will ensure
sustainability.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in the Country/Sector
8.      The satisfactory implementation of the Water and Sanitation
Services Project in Gaza since the fall of 1996 has provided
significant insight into the advantages and disadvantages of using a
management contract to improve water and wastewater services. The
positive experience of the project so far has encouraged the PWA and
the Bank to consider similar arrangements in other areas,
particularly the southern West Bank.
Some of the lessons learned from the preparation and early
implementation of the Gaza project have been:
-- the importance of project preparation in close collaboration and
coordination with the PWA, local municipalities, and village
councils and other stakeholders to ensure ownership;
-- the full cooperation of the authorities;
-- the design of the management contract which includes payments for
a fixed fee plus incentive fees on the basis of specific performance
targets built into the contract; and
-- the importance of minimizing the fragmentation of the various
institutions involved in water and wastewater services
Accordingly, this project will be designed to reflect all of the above.
Poverty Category
9.      The project would support the PA's program to improve and
protect the environment and increase private sector participation in
the management of the water and wastewater in the southern area of
the West Bank and rural areas. The entire population within the
service areas under the project (estimated at around 350,000) will
benefit from the project. Low income households and rural
communities especially will benefit from access to reliable piped
water supplies at prices much lower than at which vendors now charge
them. These households will also experience health benefits from
improved access to water and wastewater services.
Environmental Aspects
10.     The project has been placed in environmental screening Category
"B" consistent with Operational Directive 4.01 (see attached Annex).
Benefits
-3-



11.     The project is expected to produce financial, social and
economic benefits with regards to:
-- saved water and increased revenues as a result of leakage
repairs, repairing or replacing meters and reducing the amount of
accounts receivable;
-- improving service delivery with increased supplies of piped water;
-- improving the overall water resources management mainly through
metering of bulk supply and increasing sector efficiency (reduction
UFW); improved planning, project design, procurement and
implementation; and
-- assisting in restructuring the sector by promoting private
sector participation in the delivery of water and wastewater in the
southern areas of the West Bank.
Contact Point            Jamal Saghir, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2789
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    The contents
of this document are subject to change and the components described
may not necessary be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 13, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Major environmental issues under this project are: (i) loss of
water through inefficient system management and deteriorated
condition of infrastructure will, if not corrected, require
premature augmentation of supply utilizing limited remaining
unexploited water resources; and (ii) inadequate wastewater
management and limited infrastructure for collection and treatment
of wastewater and septage results in contamination of aquifers,
deteriorated surface water quality and potential health risks.
Environmental impact will be mitigated by improved operation
and maintenance of water and sewerage services which will improve
the efficiency of water use, reduce the need for tapping new
resources, reduce the discharge of untreated or inadequately treated
wastewater into the environment and enhance the reclamation and
reuse of wastewater. Water leakage and other losses will be
curtailed, sewer overflows minimized, operation of wastewater
treatment facilities enhanced and sanitation improved in unsewered areas.
The proposed project would contribute to improving the
environment through improved management of existing water and
sanitation facilities, through increased expenditure on essential
operation and maintenance, and through a capital investment program
to expand and improve water and sanitation infrastructure.
Currently there are no known project proposals whose implementation
would require land acquisition or result in involuntary
resettlement. No known archaeological or historical sites would be
affected by rehabilitation sub-project, nor does the operating
investment components of the project raise any international water
issues. The capital investment activities to be supported comprise
rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of piped water supply
services in urban areas and water and sanitation improvements in
rural areas. The project does not include new wastewater treatment
facilities and if new water supply deep wells are included they will
result from extensive hydrogeological and environmental studies (by
others), will tap the same aquifer as several existing or proposed
wells, and will be approved by both Palestinian and Israeli
authorities. The project does not include any component with major
environmental impact and will result in significant improvement in
environmental quality through improved water and sanitation
services. Sewerage services are adequately addressed by other
donors. An Environmental Mitigation and Management Plan will be
drawn up as part of Project preparation.
- 5-



