Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 022443
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Acting as Administrator 
of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
Dated June 5, 1999
TF 022443
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1999, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza 
and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, 
as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and further amended by Resolution No. 
96-11 and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association (the 
Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on July 
13, 1998, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety million 
dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
(C)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
Page  2
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Borrower, having satisfied 
itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066 GZ), as amended, with the following modifications 
thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(b)
Paragraph (g) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as paragraph (k) and the 
following new paragraphs (g) through (j) are added in said Section 6.02:
"(g)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in 
the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project 
implementation entity.
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, 
ownership or control of 
any Project implementation entity shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect (i) the ability of the 
Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to 
perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into 
pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Page  3
Project."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the 
Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to 
finance the Project's 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of 
any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with 
the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall 
be canceled."
(d)
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is re-lettered as paragraph (h) and the 
following are added as new paragraphs (d) through (g) of said Section:
"(d)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(e)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the same 
legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(f)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(g)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, ownership or 
control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing 
as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to materially and adversely 
affect (i) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising 
under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"PWA" means the Palestinian Water Authority, a public authority 
established and operating in Gaza and the West Bank pursuant to Decree No. 90 of the 
Page  4
Chairman of the Palestinian Authority, dated April 26, 1995, and Law No. 2 of January 
18,1996, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Management Contract" means a management contract entered into between 
the PWA, on the one part, and a reputable private sector management contract operator, 
on the other part, in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, pursuant to which said operator shall undertake to improve the 
management and delivery of water and wastewater services in the Bethlehem and Hebron 
Governorates;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall include all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(e)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan submitted by PWA to the 
Administrator, dated November 16, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time 
by agreement among the Palestinian Authority, PWA and the Administrator; and
(f)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan submitted by PWA to the 
Administrator, dated November 26, 1998, setting forth the managerial, financial, 
administrative and technical policies and procedures for the execution of the Project, 
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement among the Palestinian 
Authority, PWA and the Administrator.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-one million US Dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to 
the Administrator a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to the 
Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and 
October 1 commencing October 1, 2009 and ending April 1, 2039. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. PWA is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out the Project through PWA with due 
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with the Project Implementation Plan and 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of 
the Borrower and the Administrator, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of 
the Palestinian Authority therein set forth, shall cause the Palestinian Authority:  
(i) to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PWA to carry out the Project; and 
(ii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with its ability to carry out the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall 
cause PWA to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Palestinian Authority 
and the Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Palestinian Authority on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA 
to: (a) retain, until completion of the Project, the management contract operator 
under the Management Contract; and (b) promptly inform the Administrator of any 
condition, act, omission or potential dispute which shall interfere, or threaten to 
interfere, with the performance by either party of its obligations under the 
Management Contract.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause 
PWA to maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and to 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Administrator, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Administrator, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as 
so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator  shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Administrator may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  7
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, shall through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to 
carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Administrator for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the PWA, not later than July 1, 2000 or such later 
date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to 
the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Palestinian Authority 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Palestinian Authority in accordance 
with its terms; and
(b)
that the Management Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the PWA and the management contract operator, and 
is legally binding upon the PWA and the management contract operator in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  8
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Palestinian Authority is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza as of  the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Z. Nashashibi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of Eligible
(Expressed in U.S.
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Civil works
   2,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods
   6,700,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Management Contract Fee
  10,000,000
100%
(4)
Consultants' services
     500,000
100%
and training
(5)
Incremental Operating
     300,000
100% of foreign
Expenditures
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(6)
Unallocated 
   1,500,000
TOTAL
  21,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than the parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency used in 
the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority or for goods or services supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "Management Contract Fee" means the payments to be made to the 
management contract operator under the terms of the Management Contract; and
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" means expenditures incurred 
under the Management Contract or by PWA on account of utility charges, maintenance of 
vehicles, fuel, chlorine, office supplies, banking charges, communication services, 
labor costs and other consumables.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods and works under contracts not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for services with firms; (c) contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
for services with individuals; and (d) Incremental operating Expenditures, under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:  (i) to improve the efficiency, management, 
operation and delivery of water and wastewater services in the Bethlehem and Hebron 
Governorates; and (ii) to prepare and implement an appropriate institutional framework 
for waste and wastewater services, including the strengthening of the regulatory and 
Page  10
institutional capacity of PWA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Management Contract
Improvement of the operation of the water supply and wastewater systems in the 
Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates area through a performance-based management contract 
that would inter alia; introduce a maintenance and repair program for equipment for 
the water and wastewater systems; improve quality of the water supply; protect the 
integrity of surface and groundwater water sources; improve the inspection and 
functioning of the wastewater collection system; improve management information 
systems, including asset and customer databases and a computerized mapping system; 
improve customer service, including reading of meters and the billing and collection 
system; improve public relations, including development of a public information 
program; establish an occupational health and safety program and an emergency response 
plan; and develop management and technical training programs.
Part B:
Operating Investments
Improvements to rehabilitate the water and wastewater systems, including 
purchase of operating and construction equipment to rehabilitate the piping network 
and pumping system; purchase and installation of materials and parts to rehabilitate 
piping network and pumping systems, bulk and retail metering systems and control 
systems; carrying out a leak detection survey program for the majority of the 
distribution network; provision of computer hardware and software for administration 
and management of the water and wastewater systems; and purchase and use of operating 
supplies including treatment chemicals.
Part C:
Capital Investments
Design, implementation and supervision of the restructuring and rehabilitation 
of the water supply system, including upgrading and extension of service coverage, 
provision of equipment, installation of materials and parts to rehabilitate the piping 
network and pumping, metering and control systems, construction of distribution zone 
storage facilities and local district storage, construction of terminal bulk storage 
facilities, and strengthening or installing new primary mains and appurtenances.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of PWA
Strengthening of the Project Management Unit, through provision of technical 
assistance, training, information technology and telecommunications equipment, office 
equipment supplies and vehicles; improving the managerial and financial capacities of 
PWA through provision of technical assistance; and provision of assistance for 
monitoring the private sector operator's performance under the Management Contract, 
including technical and financial auditing, and carrying out of studies, related to 
the development of a regulatory and institutional framework and the participation of 
the private sector in water and wastewater services.
*    *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 
1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  11
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
$250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall be 
advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide 
circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days 
between the date upon which the notification appears in the newspaper for the first 
time and the date upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding 
documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator's standard bidding 
documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United Nations Agencies 
operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interest ed foreign contractors and 
suppliers shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and 
shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the 
same time in public; (vii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; 
(viii) no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after 
the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations with the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) 
postqualification criteria shall, in the absence of a prequalification process, be 
explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $4,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
Page  12
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. \0c 3. Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for engineering design and implementation supervision under Part C of 
the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for surveys and studies related to the ability of consumers to pay 
under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and specialist studies under Part D of the Project may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for short term advisory and legal services under Part D of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants' services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable PWA to evaluate on an 
on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Administrator, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than August 31, 2001, a report, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, performed pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said mid-term report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, in the course of the twelve 
(12) months immediately following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, not later than December 30, 2001, the 
report referred to under paragraph (b) of this Section and any proposals developed by 
the Palestinian Authority for the continued management of the water and sanitation 
services in the southern area of the West Bank, following the completion of the 
Management Contract, including the various options of public sector management and 
private sector participation, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Administrator's views on the matter.
2.
Progress Reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and to those of Paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower, through the Palestinian 
Authority, shall cause PWA, not later than February 28, and August 31 of each year 
until completion of the Project, commencing February 28, 2000, to prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request describing the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project.
3.
Environmental Mitigation and Management
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause PWA to carry out 
the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with its terms.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  14
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent to $1,700,000, provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  15
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
