Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3997-CWA
hi                                 REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 41.7 MLLION
TO THE
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINK
FOR A
SEEDS PROJECT
March 20, 1985
!
This doemeat bh a restricted distributiom md -ay be ued by recipients ely In the pefosmmnce of
their olicial duies. I}t conteot may not odtrwise be disclosed without World Bank authoorizoi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1984      January 1985
US$1.00                   Y 2.50            Y 2.80
Y 1.00                  US$0.40           US$0.36
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 1
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)         =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (kn)    =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =    2.47 acres
--   l5 mu
1 kilogram (kg)     =    2.2 pounds
1 ton (t)           =    2,205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABC     -  Agricultural Bank of China
AITC    -  Agriculture, Industry and Trad' Corporation
BSF     -  Bureau of State Farms
CAAS    -  Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CNTIC   -  China National Technical Import Corporation
GVAO    -  Cross Value of Agricultural Output
MAAF    -  Ministry of Agriculture, AnimaL Husbandry and Fisheries
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
NSC     -  National Seed Corporation
PBSF    -  Provincial Bureau of State Farms
PCB     -  People's Construction Bank
PMO     -  Project Management Office
PRS     -  Production Responsibility System
tph     -  tons per hour



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Amount:            SDR 41.7 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project            In support of the Government's seed industry development
Description      program, the project would modernize facilities at 18 seed
production, processing and distribution centers in 12
provinces and two autonomous regions. It would also
strengthen operations of the National Seed Corporation
(NSC), the central agency under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF) which is
responsible for developing a comprehensive seed quality
assurance and control system. The project would contribute
to increased production of high quality seed for major food
and cash crops and serve as a model for planned construc-
tion over the next two decades of over 300 modern seed
centers throughout China. Principal features of the pro-
posed project would be construction of processing and
storage facilities, laboratories, offices, and staff
housing for the 18 centers; improvement of farm roads and
irrigation works at seed center farm sites; and provision
of pre-cleaning, drying, processing, testing, analytical
and farm equipment.
The project would also include a technical assistance (32
man-months of consultant services) and training component
designed to facilitate access by China's seed industry to
advanced seed technology, modern quality assurance and
control systems, and improved management methods available
within the international community. The project faces no
major technical risks since it involves proven seed process-
ing technology that has been in regular operation in other
parts of the world. Any uncertainty regarding overall
coordination of project activities would be offset by the
fact that the central Project Management Office would
include, in addition to NSC staff, representatives from the
Bureau of State Farms and the North China Plain Project
Office, both of which are responsible for components of the
project and have had previous experience in implementing
Bank projects.
Thlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign    Total
$ miLlion
Buildings                              18.0      2.0       20.0
Seed farm deveLopment                  12.9      2.3       15.2
Processing and laboratory equipment   2.1       18.8       20.9
Farm equipment and materiaLs            2.4     13.3       15.7
Overseas and local training             0.1      0.8        0.9
Technical assistance                     -       0.5        0.5
Base cost                        35.5      37.7       73.2
Physical contingency                    1.9      2.8        4.7
Expected price increase                 4.3      4.6        8.9
Total Project Cost                  41.7      45.1       86.8
Financing Plan:                                          Total
IDA                                     -       40.0       40.0
Seed Centers                          30.9       -        30.9
Provinces                             10.8       5.1       15.9
Total                                  41.7     45.1       86.8
Estimated:
Disbursements:  IDA FY                      1986       1987      1988      1989
$ million
Annual                      6.8       15.2      14.0       4.0
Cumulative                  6.8      22.0       36.0      40.0
Rate of Return:   38%
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 5348-CHA, dated March 18, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA FOR A SEEDS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a seeds project. The
credit, for SDR 41.7 million ($40.0 million equivalent), would be on standard
IDA terms.
PART r - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy DeveLopments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is preparing a report on long-term development issues and
options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by May
1985.  Basic data o0  the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        To address economic inefficiency and structural imbalances, the
Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979. Reform
implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated with the
introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various forms),
which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and investment
decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after contracted
payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast majority
of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform of the
urban economy began much more slowly, but nevertheless significant systemic
changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers; profit retention
by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experimental basis);
fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to share in the
benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in budgeting; and
some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment policies
resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in CDP; a rise in the
share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improvements
in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manufactured
exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) CDP growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation



(to around 2Z p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1X of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 bi'llion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real GDP growth averaging over 8Z p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price increases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls
(particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very sLowly in 1982
(1.3Z) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9Z) and 1984 (as much as 10), due to
a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of Govern-
ment organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures on
investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy indu3try growing somewhat faster than light industry (122 vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84), consistent annual
crude oil output at over 100 miLlion tons, and improvements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very strong perfor-
mance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have
also grown very rapidly.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem.  Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exreeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).



-3-
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10% while
imports increased by 25Z. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84
than in 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidLy than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remartable spread of nonagri-
cuLturaL activities like processing, transnort, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one undertaking - often cash crops, animal
husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooLing of capital by small
groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increasingly
common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises -ose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Government budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise



- 4 -
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commerciaL units. "Floating
prices" (up to 2OZ above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the 'bsence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also widening, as



-5-
enterprises invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuals
purchase stocks. Though restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as collateral
for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guidelines for the direction of
future reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in: (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating Government and
t         enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government
organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming the price
system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) establish-
ing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on the market
mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) upgrading
managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy;
(g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting cooperation
and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of
foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilicies and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjustments in
administratively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises,
however, will still be appointed by Government organizations; a few key
products will still be subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the
Covernment; state ownership and control over certain institutions like banks
and railways will not be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing
product lines, mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to
Covernment approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which wilL help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement.  Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs.



- 6 -
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates.  There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agricalture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will aLso be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy,
shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain
growth in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new
investments and improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing
resources in all these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign
borrowing. Finally, the rising share of the elderly in China's population
(related to the slowdown in population growth) means that more resources will
have to be devoted to maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the
decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Hanagement of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an
adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for the bulk of
aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns)
will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the
population and an appropriate level of social services will become a major
challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are
reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various parts of the
country will continue to require attention. Redistributing financial
resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of
the poorest areas, and Lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in
them more attractive are some options for alleviating poverty in these areas.



-7-
23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task
difficult. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid,
sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in part on
foreign borrowing. Recognizing this need, the Government plans to gradually
draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract
foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to
concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the
world. But China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
4        concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and wiLl probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       To sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, to increase
efficiency and innovation, and to maintain equity in distribution, China will
need continuing and fundamental reforms. These chalLenges are compounded by
China's large investment requirements and difficulty in efforts to open up to
the rest of the world. In light of this, there are several broad objectives
for the Bank to pursue in its relationship with China. First, the Bank can
offer China development experience and institutional knowledge as well as
opportunities for interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second,
the Bank can assist China in removing major constraints on development and in
improving investment planning and policy coordination in the priority
sectors - namely energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development
and industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts.  For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first co finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the



Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored pro-
grams, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, educa-
tion and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project pro-
posals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff train-
ing, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and
improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a number
of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several educa-
tion and petroleum projects. Sector work in enterprise management, urban
development, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement
of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher Level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.



-9-
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems
of adjustment and reform. Follow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program
has been directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are examples
of the links between economic and sector work and the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chi'qt
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion.  The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of
enterprise managers toward system reform and has led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies incLuded in the projects. These a -: expected to
produce the basis for detailed diszussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income leveLs, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions
on issues of institutional and policy change will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 22 projects involving lending of $2.274 billion to China have been ap-
proved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of September 30, 1984. For this fiscal year we hope to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include: the already approved projects
for Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
and Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining; the proposed Seeds Project; and projects in
rural water supply, roads, railways, forestry, fertilizer industry, gas
engineering, and Pi-Shi-Hang Area development.



- 10 -
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regionaL approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       In the energy sector, Lending has included mix projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assiscance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project places
particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for electric
power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids will be
the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of appropriate
technologies, least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lover cost opera-
tions, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a theme in the
sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
involvement. Improved management and information systems and analytical
techniques for better cost control will be encouraged under the projects,
which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout transport enter-
prises. Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative
investment choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and sector
work.
39.       In agriculture, seven projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agriculture credit system. Projects in seeds develop-
ment, forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen support
services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support ongoing structural transformction in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produc-
tion-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and cement, to
expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector analysis and
planning.



- 11 -
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by four education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Projects in health, urban
development and water supply will assist the Governnent in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. While there were some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, it has since estab-
lished a specialized central procurement agency to address the problem. Most
project agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank Group
projects. To support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation, and facilitate further
economic and sector work, the Bank Group is planning to open a resident office
in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
43.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one biLLion peopLe, is the source of
income for about 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35% of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor and
organic fertilizers, and, more recently, chemical fertilizers and other agri-
cultural chemicals. Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated and more than
half of this area grows at least two crops per year. Foodgrains occupy about
80% of the cropland and account for 55Z of total agricultural output. This
intensive system of production allows China to meet the basic food needs of
its population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the
world's arable land. Crop yields are about 50% greater than those in other
developing countries and for some crops in some areas yields approach those in
developed countries. Agricultural production is carried out largely on
household-managed farms within a framework of collective or state ownership of
land and major fixed assets.
44.       Agricultural development has been accorded high priority since the
founding of the People's Republic. With public sector investment in agri-
culture averaging about 10% of totaL national public sector investment, the
sector grew by about 3.2% p.a. from 1955 to 1978. Agricultural productivity
per hectare of cultivated land increased considerably. Grain yields nearly
doubled between 1952 and 1978; the most rapid increase occurred in the years



- 12 -
1965-78 when Government policy put special emphasis on achieving local self-
sufficiency in grain production. These gains, accomplished through combined
application of abundant local labor and modern inputs such as improved seeds,
chemical fertilizers, and mechanical threshers, allowed China to feed an
additional 300 million people. Remarkable as this achievement was - given the
arable land constraint - total production in fact did littLe more than keep
pace with population growth during the period. Moreover, the Government's
policy of promoting increased local self-sufficiency in grains checked
possible gains from crop specialization and exchange and, in some extreme
cases, led to deterioration of the land base. By the late 1970s, official
assessments began focussing attention on the unsatisfactory state of people's
incomes and living standards, particularly in the resource-poor areas of the
northwest and southwest.
45.       Improved producer incentives, a renewed emphasis on specialization,
and continuous infusion of new and improved crop varieties are among the
principal factors contributing to the high growth performance of the agri-
cultural sector since 1979. GVAO has grown at an annual average rate exceed-
ing 7%, or more than twice the rate achieved over the previous two decades.
The period has seen a steady decline in the share of crop production aud
relative gains in livestock. In real terms, rural incomes may have risen by
70%, and consumption gains have been substantial.
46.       Beginning in 1979, the Government departed from previous policy by
giving greater priority to improved consumption levels while scaling down
goals for growth in GNP and investment. The challenge of the coming decades
is how to increase the production of food and other agricultural products
needed to meet this commitment to improved living standards for China's vast
population. Demand for agricultural products is expected to increase steadily
over the next two decades in response to increasing per capita income and
moderate population growth. China's cultivated area will remain essentially
unchanged over the period - land lost to roads, urbanization, and industrial
development will be approximately offset by newly reclaimed land. As a
result; the production gains required to feed a population growing by at least
ten million per year and to supply the raw materials to meet rapid growth in
industrial demand will have to come almost entirely from increased yields on
existing cultivated areas. Year 2000 growth targets for major food and cash
crops include: (a) annual growth in rice production of about 1.8% with the
sown area remaining constant and increased yields accounting for output gains;
(b) annual growth in corn and wheat production of about 2.62, similarly as a
result of yield increases on presently cultivated land; plans also cali for
increasing the productivity of other food crops such as tubers and soybeans;
(c) increased production and diversity of fruits and vegetables to meet
expected expansion of consumer demands accompanying rising incomes; and (d)
improved yields and production of cash crops - cotton, sugar crops, oilseeds -
the demand for which is projected to grow rapidly.
47.       Key elements of the Government's strategy to achieve these growth
targets are: (a) improving producer incentives - e.g., making the farm house-
hoLd, rather than the collective, the basic unit of management and production
in agriculture; providing higher procurement prices for farm produce, and
expanding the flow of credit to rural areas; (b) facilitating crop specializa-



- 13 -
tion and comercialization through reforms in the farm price structure and
relaxation of regional procurement and sown area quotas; (c) expanding
agricultural research activities with an emphasis on increased use of modern
inputs and technology; (d) strengthening the agricultural extension system to
facilitate transfer of relevant technology to farmers and feedback of produc-
tion problems to research units; (e) creating improved and well-integrated
systems of production, storage, transport, and marketing; (f) strengthening
past programs to boost agricultural output - e.g. production of certified
seeds, construction of irrigation works, application of fertilizers based on
soil and foliar analysis, and development of pest management systems.
Organization of the Seed Industry
48.       Recognizing that high quality seeds in adequate quantity a e
critical inputs to increased crop yields, the Government since 1979 has given
attention to strengthening China's seed industry. At the central level there
ar's two agencies within MAAF responsible for national seed production, the
N.tional Seed Corporation (NSC) and the Bureau of State Farms (BSF).  NSC's
major responsibilities are to develop national policy guidelines for the seed
industry, to establish national seed testing and certification standards, and
to provide technical guidance and training to a network of over 2,300 locally-
financed and administered seed companies. The local seed companies -
provincial, prefectural, and country - are responsible for seed production;
they supervise about 2,300 seed farms, the majority of which produce stock
seed. They also contract with nearby townships and villages for further
multiplication of seed. Each company prepares a production plan for its
affiliated farms subject to review by the appropriate local government
planning commission and agricultural bureau. Under post-1979 economic poli-
cies, seed company revenues from the sale of seeds and various management and
technical fees have risen to the point of allowing a small profit margin. As
a result, Government subsidies are being gradually reduced. In 1983, 86% of
China's 2,300 seed companies reported a small net profit (totalling 63 million
RMB) with only 14% recording losses (of 26 million RMB). This compares with
figures of 64Z and 36% respectively in 1979.
49.       The BSF coordinates a parallel system of seed companies and farms.
At the provincial level technical and financial assistance are channeled
through the provincial bureau of state farms (PBSF) and its chief marketing
and promotion arm, the Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation (AITC). A
recent (as of the end of 1983) innovation in line with the Government's policy
of encouraging commercial development, AITCs are already operational in most
provinces. Key AITC responsibilities are interprovincial trade, imports and
exports, and construction including contract work outside the state farm
system. Under the new AITC structure, seed production, processing, quality
control and marketing are handled by AITC-affiliated provincial seed companies
and branch seed companies which operate at the state farm level. MultipLica-
tion of seed is carried out by specialized subfarms within each state farm.
Support Services
50.       Breeder seed is supplied to collectives and state farms by national
research institutes under the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS),



- 14 -
by provincial and prefectural research academies, and by research institutes
which are part of the state farm system. Research programs in genetics and
plant breeding at China's 66 agricultural colleges and universities are also
contributing to the development of new plant varieties. Extension institu-
tions continue to be of pivotal importance in encouraging farmers to adopt
improved varieLies. The Government is in the process of consolidating
previously separate extension services, including seed offices, into a single,
county-level agrotechnical extension station; about 300 of a projected 2,300
stations are already in operation. Training in seed production -- including
upgrading courses for the estimated 400,000 employees in NSC and state farms
seed operations nationwide -- has been organized in recent years by the seed
companies and provincial bureaus of state farms. While the numbers enrolled
are impressive, the course content in such areas as seed processing techno-
logy, quality assurance and control, and enterprise management needs revision
to fit the requirements of a modern, efficient seed industry.
Seed Production and Processing
51.       Under the NSC system, multiplication of stock and certified seed is
carried out by seed farms either managed by or under special contract to the
local seed companies. Currently about two million ha are planted with stock
seed for an annual yield of about six million tons of seed to be used for crop
production. All of this seed - representing about 35Z of the nation's total
annual seed requirement of 17 million tons - is grown under seed company
technical supervision and is thus labelled "certified." However, only about
two million tons which is purchased from the farms by the seed companies for
processing and resale has undergone rigorous field inspection and testing.
Under the state farm system, AITC-affiliated seed companies manage production
and distribution of about 650,000 tons of seed - or about 4% of the total
national requirement - for crop production. Though historically the state
farms have focussed on supplying only their own seed needs, current trends
encouraged by economic policies since 1979 show state farms increasing the
amount of seed marketed both outside the province and outside the state farm
system (the latter presently 14%). Over the next two decades, about 25X of
state farm seed (and other planting material) output is expected to be sold to
the collectives. Of the nearly 7 million tons of seed supplied by NSC-and
GBSF-affiliated enterprises, about 90% has been processed using traditional
methods - e.g., sun drying and hand or machine winnowing. The remaindrr is
mechanically processed, for the most part using small-sized equipment which is
worn, outmoded and inefficient.  Less than 1%, or about 50,000 tons, has been
properly processed - in the only six modern high-capacity seed processing
plants now operating in China - and certified in accordance with modern
procedures.  Current base retail prices for industry-supplied seed reflect
full production costs for bulk, untreated seeds plus a small premium amounting
to 15X or more (see also para. 61).
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
52.       The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production thrcugh the
more efficient use of land and water resources and improvements in support
services such as credit, research and agricultural education. Projects are



- 15 -
also being selected for their aemonstration and catalytic impact in addition
to immediate income generation. The first Bank Group operation in the
agriculture sector, the North China Plain Project (Credit 1261-CHA) is pro-
viding irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of nine counties
in three provinces; it is the first large-scale attack on soil salinity and
waterlogging in China. The Agricultural Education and Research (Credit 1297-
CHA), and Agricultural Education II (Loan 2444/Credit 1500-CH) and
Agricultural Research II (Credit 1516-CHA) projects are supporting the
Government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the
agriculture sector by providing technical assistance and equipment to selected
agricultural colleges and research institutes. The Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA), che Bank Group's third
agricultural project in China, has as its main objective developing new land
on state farms in the Northeast for wheat, corn and soybean production. As
its fourth investment in the sector, the Bank is financing a Rubber Develop-
ment Project (Credit 1917-CHA) in Guangdong Province; the project assists in
the new planting and repLanting of about 40,000 ha of rubber. The Rural
Credit Project (Loan 1462-CHA) which became effective on November 1, 1984,
finances investments in Guangxi Province for the development of orchard and
other tree crops, agro-processing, livestock and aquaculture through the
Agricultural Bank of China. Other projects at various stages of processing
include: the proposed seeds project; a forestry project covering commercial
timber production and forestry research and extension; and the Pi-shi-hang
area development project. Future project possibilities include a second
credit project, aquaculture, irrigation and drainage, red soils development in
the southern uplands and land development in the Northwest.
Project Formulation and Rationale
53.       As part of its overall program to boost agricultural production the
Government is placing high priority on strengthening the seed industry. Long
range plans call for establishing throughout China over 300 integrated seed
production, processin- and distribution centers, each comprising several seed
companies and affiliated stock and certified seed farms. By the year 2000,
production of fully-processed, high quality seed by these centers is expected
to reach 2.5 million tons p.a. The major rationale for Bank involvement in
the proposed project is to support the Government in this seed industry deve-
lopment program. In particular, participation of the Bank would enable staff
of the NSC and BSF to gain access to improved seed technology and technical
advice available within the international community. This would incLude
advanced equipment for seed drying, processing, packaging and laboratory
analyses; techniques of preparing facility layouts and developing uniform
quality assurance/control procedures; and approaches to technical and business
management of seed enterprises. Over the long term, this transfer of techno-
logy and expertise would facilitate rapid modernization of seed processing
facilities as well as strengthening the capacity of the NSC to administer a
modern national system for seed marketing and control. Based on project crop
production requirements and considerations of regional comparative advantage,
the Government, in consultation with Bank staff, selected 18 seed centers for
inclusion in the project. The centers are located in 14 provinces/autonomous
regions representing principal producing areas for major food and cash crops
including rice, wheat, corn, soybean, potatoes, fruit, vegetabLes, sugar
crops, and cotton.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       An exchange of views between the Government and Bank staff and con-
sultants on the original project proposal prepared by MAAF led to refinement
and elaboration of the project design. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 5 to March 7, 1985 with a delegation led by Mr. Ge Fucun of the
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 5348-CHA, dated March 18,
1985, is being distributed separately. Supplementary data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Scope and Design
55.       The principal objective of the proposed project is to support the
Government in its seed industry development program. The project would moder-
nize facilities at 18 seed production, processing and distribution centers in
12 provinces and two autonomous regions. It would also strengthen operations
of China's central seed agency, the NSC, in particular its seed testing and
certification services. The project would contribute to increased production
of high quality seed for major food and cash crops and serve as a model for
planned construction over the next two decades of over 300 modern seed
centers.
Principal Project Features
56.       The project would include:
(a)  construction of about 350,000 sq m of buildings for processing
plants, warehouses, testing laboratories and staff housing;
Cb)  improvements to about 28,000 ha of seed farms including land level-
ing and construction or upgrading of 480 km of rural roads, 1,500 km
of irrigation canaLs and drains, about 165 wells, and five pumping
stations;
(c)  provision of seed processing and laboratory equipment;
(d)  provision of farm machinery, vehicles and materials;
(e)  local and overseas training in seed technology, quality
assurancelcontrol, and management for staff of the centers and
implementing agencies;
(f)  technical assistance to conduct seminars and workshops in seed tech-
nology, quality assurance/control, and management and to help
develop a model seed technology and science curriculum at four agri-
cultural colleges; and
(g) studies of seed supply and demand, marketing and prices, and quality
assurance/control procedures.



- 17 -
Detailed Features
57.       Buildings.  The project would provide for construction and renova-
Lion of seed drying units, processing plants, storage warehouses, seed testing
laboratories/offices, staff housing and other specialized facilities at the
18 seed centers. A typical processing plant would consist of a receiving
area, drying/bulk storage area, processing hall (including equipment and main-
tenance areas), and warehouses for storage of processed seed. Storage facili-
ties for the most part would be of the ventilated warehouse type, but
conditioned storerooms would be provided in some case*, e.g., vegetable opera-
tions. The project would provide for expansion and new construction of labor-
atories at all seed centers. Housing would be built at most centers to accom-
modate a planned expansion of center staff by about 30Z.
58.       Seed Farm Development.  The project would improve infrastructure on
about 28,000 ha of a total of 117,000 ha of NSC and BSF seed farms to bring
the land to the level required for reliable, economic seed production. Con-
struction and rehabilitation of drains and irrigation canals and some land
leveling would be undertaken on most seed farms. Five pumping stations would
be constructed and transformers, high-voltage lines, and distribution lines
supplied. The project would provide for well drilling mostly in the arid
regions of Xinjiang. About 480 km of farm roads would be constructed linking
production areas to processing and treatment plants.
59.       Processing and Laboratory Equipment.  Equipment installed at the
plant sites of 10 centers for rice, corn, wheat, soybean and/or sugar beet
seed would consist of receiving and precleaning equipment, continuous flow or
bin-type drying systems, bulk storage facilities, processing (cleaning and
g-ading) equipment including a main cleaner, sizing equipment, gravity separa-
tor, treater, and semi-automatic weighing and packaging system with conveyors,
holding and surge bins, dust and trash disposal systems, and other accessory
equipment. Equipment would be standardized to the extent possible to
facilitate maintenance and repairs and training of equipment operators. Two
centers - one for hybrid rice, the other for grain and cotton - would be
provided primarily with individual processing machines for use at small farm
sites. Three cotton centers would be provided with a total of seven modern
2-3 tph combination acid-delinting processing plants for cottonseed.
Ancillary equipment including refrigerators, dehumidifiers and electrical
equipment would be installed at the Nei Monggol Seed Potato and Qiansuo Fruit
Tree Nursery Centers.  The project would provide all centers with laboratory
and office equipment including seed testing instruments and scientific
equipment; the latter would apply especially to the fruit tree, cotton and
potato centers.
60.       Farm Machinery, Vehicles and Materials.  The project would streng-
then the capacity of the seed centers to carry out land improvements, land
preparation, and cultivation and harvesting operations by providing, inter
alia, tractors, plows, harrows, seeders, laser levelers, harvesters and
threshers. In addition, the project would expand and replace equipment fleets
for project centers through procurement of 153 heavy trucks, 104 pickup
trucks, and 83 vans and microbuses to be used primarily (a) to distribute
stock seed to contract farms, (b) to transport crops from seed farms to



- 18 -
processing plants, (c) to carry processed seed to seed company sales units,
and (d) to transport materials, production crews, and seed inspectors.
Materials supplied by the project include about 15,700 tons of fertilizers and
pesticides, limited quantities of breeder and basic seed, and about 5,500 tons
of steel for use in construction of project facilities.
61.       Traning.  The project would provide 600 man-months of local short-
term (1-2 month) courses for seed center and seed company/AITC personnel pri-
marily in project and seed enterprise management; seed processing, testing and
certification; and operation of research instruments. Overzeas study suppor-
ted by the project would consist of about eight one-month study tours and
326 man-months of specialized (10-12 months) training for senior center staff
and staff of project implementing agencies in seed processing, testing,
quality assurance and enterprise management. During negotiations assurance
was obtained that training of staff of project centers and implementing agen-
cies would be carried out in accordance with a program agreed between the
Government and IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       Technical Assistance.  The project would strengthen the technical
and managerial capacities of China's seed industry by providing about 32 man-
months of foreign consultant services. Assistance would cover three broad
areas: seed processing technology and operations; quality assurance and
control including testing, certification, and legislation; and management as
related to both purely business activities and technical operations. In addi-
tion, seed specialists would work with NSC staff and staff of four agricul-
cural colleges offering seed science and technology to develop a model
program. The project would also provide foreign consultants to review designs
of drainage and irrigation systems at selected project sites and to assist in
preparing studies of China's seed industry.
63.       Studies.  The NSC and BSF would supervise studies of (a) seed supply
and demand, (b) seed marketing and prices, and (c) quality assurance and
control (legislation and regulatory) procedures. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that a report presenting the main findings of the studies would
be prepared by the MAAF Project Management Office (PHO) and submitted to IDA
for review not later than December 31, 1987 (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation Schedule
64.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
in July 1985. Detailed designs for civil works are well under way. Working
drawings and contracting arrangements with local construction companies would
be finalized during 1985 so that construction might begin by December. Bid
documents for the first package of equipment would be issued by the end of
March 1985. Bids would be opened in June 1985 and contracts awarded in
August. Equipment deliveries would begin in early 1986 and be completed
during the first quarter of 1987. Training activities and consultant services
would be expected to start by mid-1985.



- 19 -
Cost Estimates
65.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$86.6 mil-
lion including contingencies with a foreign exchange component of US$45.1 mil-
lion or 521. Costs for buildings include a small eLement of local taxes on
materials, probably less than 1OZ. Imported equipment is exempt from taxes or
duties. Cost estimates for civil works, goods and services are based on June
1984 prices adjusted for expected price increases. Civil works were estimated
on the basis of preliminary designs using unit prices based on similar type of
work. Equipment costs were based on suppliers' current price quotations
applied to detailed equipment lists. Training costs were estimated at $15,000
per man-year for overseas specialized training, $6,000 per man-month for over-
seas study tours and about $170 per man-month for local training. The contin-
gency allowance is about US$13.6 million or about 191 of the project base
cost. Physical contingencies (US$4.7 million) equal 5% of base costs for
civil works, equipment and materials (10% for seed processing equipment). For
the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that exchange rate
adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain the parity of purchasing
power during project implementation. Expected price increases (US$8.9 mil-
lion) amount to 11% of the base cost plus physical contingencies and are based
on the rates of price escalation of 3% annually for domestic inflation and for
international inflation 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9Z annually from 1986 to
1988, 7.5% in 1989, and 6% annually from 1990 to 1995.
Financing
66.       Total financing required is US$86.8 million.  The proposed IDA
credit would amount to $40 million (46% of total project costs) and would be
used primarily for purchase of equipment, virtually all of which would be
imported. The balance of US$46.8 million would be met from funds from the
budgets of provincial, prefectural and county governments (US$15.9 million
equivalent) and contributions from the project seed centers (US$30.9 million).
Procurement
67.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.  Seed
processing and laboratory equipment with an estimated cost of US$20.9 million
and farm equipment and materials estimated at $15.6 million would be procured
on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Items of equip-
ment costing not more than $100,000 per contract and $2.5 million in total
would be procured on the basis of quotations received from at least three
eligible suppliers under procedures acceptable to IDA. For equipment procured
through ICB, local manufacturers would be extended a preference margin of 15%
or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation.
Prior IDA review of contract awards would exclude small contracts ($200,000 or
less) estimated to cover less than 15% of the value of all contracts. Goods
with a value of $4.4 million, mainly small equipment items fabricated locally,
and civil works (US$23.6 million) would be financed by the Government and
ptrcured locally through local procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
Consultants would be selected under terms of reference agreed with IDA and in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the use of consultants.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT PROFILE
Procurement method
ICB         LP /a       Other /b    Total
Buildings                             -            23.6          -         23.6
(0)                     (0)
Seed farm development                 -            17.8          -         17.8
(0)                     (0)
Processing and laboratory
equipment                         20.9            2.5         2.0        25.4
(20.9)         (0)          (2.0)     (22.9)
Farm equipment and materials        15.6            1.9         0.9        18.4
(15.6)         (0)          (0)       (15.6)
Overseas and local training           -              -          1.0         1.0
(0.9)      (0.9)
Technical assistance                  -              -          0.6         0.6
(0.6)      (0.6)
Total                          36.5           45.8         4.5        86.8
(36.5)        T(T           (3.5)     (40.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
/a   LP stands for "local procedures" which involve the assignment of one or
more civil works contracts to a preselected contractor. For goods,
contractors may be factories or suppliers.
/b   "Other" includes (i) procurement of equipment on the basis of evaluation
of bids from at least three suppliers, and (ii) procurement of technical
assistance and training.
Disbursements
69.       Disbursements for equipment, materials and vehicles would be made at
100% of the CIF cost for direct imports and 100% of the ex-factory cost for
locally manufactured items.  Disbursements for overseas training and consul-
tant services would be made at 100X of total expenditures. All withdrawal
applications would be fully documented except: (a) for expenditures under
equipment, materials and vehicles contracts whose value is less than $50,000
equivalent; (b) for expenditures for overseas fellowships and study tours; and
(c) for expenditures under consultants' services contracts whose value is less
than $50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications for these expenditures would
be supported by a statement of expenditure certified by the central PHO's Pro-
ject Coordinator. In order to provide for efficient disbursement of credit
proceeds, a special account wouLd be opened in US dollars in the Bank of China
with an authorized allocation of SDR 4.2 million which represents the
estimated expenditures for the most active four-month period. Applications



- 21 -
for replenishment of the special account would be submitted quarterly, or
whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Bid documents for equipment are expected to be com-
pleted by March 1985, making it possible to procure most items in the first
three years of the project. The closing date of the credit wculd be
December 31, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
69.       Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the
People's Construction Bank (PCB) which would be responsible for disbursements
to county/state farm construction companies/teams engaged under the project.
These records would be consolidated into a single account by the PCB in
Beijing and forwarded annually to the PMO. The PMO would keep records of
equipment expenditures and would prepare an annual account of equipment and
civil works expenditures. Assurance was obtained from the Government that the
accounts wouLd be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
and that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year (Secrion 4.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The project accounts would be audited by the State Audit Agency.
Project Management and Execution
70.       The MAAF would have overall responsibility for project implementa-
tion. Within the MAAF, a PMO, made up of staff from the NSC, the BSF, and the
North China Plain (NCP) Project Office has been established to coordinate
project execution in the 14 provinces/autonomous regions involved in the
project. A Project C-iordinator and three Deputy Coordinators, one each from
NSC, NCP, and BSF, have been designated to head the PMO staff.  The PMO would
be responsible for coordinating project work with all central agencies
involved; acting as chief liaison with IDA; maintaining project accounts and
submitting disbursement applications to IDA; monitoring civil works design and
construction; administering local and overseas training programs; and super-
vising all aspects of the equipment procurement process. The PHO would also
be responsible for preparing a project completion report for IDA review. An
advisory group composed of six to eight Chinese seed experts has been estab-
lished to assist the PMO.  In equipment procurement, the PMO would be
primarily responsible for equipment review and preparation of technical
specifications and the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) for
bid invitation, evaluation, and award of contracts.
71.       At the provincial level, project management offices have been esta-
blished as separate units within provincial seed companies, provincial state
farms bureaus or AITCs to coordinate and supervise project implementation in
the participating counties, subbureaus and state farms. An advisory group has
been appointed to assist each provincial PMO. At the seed center level, a
designated representative of the participating units - county seed companies,
provincial and county stock seed farms, state farms - has established a
management office to handle the day-to-day activities of project execution.
Each would be responsible for preparing work schedules and supervising local
units involved in the project such as county construction companies and state
farms construction bureaus. During negotiations assurance was obtained that



- 22 -
the MAAF PM0 and provincial PMOs, with their attached advisory groups, and
other local PMOs would be maintained and adequately staffed with qualified
personnel during the life of the proposed project (Section 3.01(b) of, and
para. B (d) and (g) of Schedule 5 to, the draft Development Credit Agreement).
72.       The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be used almost
entirely for procurement of equipment and materials for the 18 project seed
centers. The costs of these items as well as of the proposed overseas train-
ing and consulting services would be debited to the 18 centers. Under current
Government procedures, the centers would repay these costs at an annual inter-
est rate of 3% over 20 years with a five year grace period. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government. Local contributions to the
project would be channeled through appropriate local branches of the Agricul-
tural Bank of China (ABC) in the case of locally-procured equipment, and
through branches of the People's Construction Bank (PCB) for civil works.
Arrangements regarding implementation of the project, including budget and
staffing, by the 14 provinces included in the project would be described in
project implementation agreements between MAAF and the aforementioned
provinces (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
execution of such an agreement would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Market Prospects and Prices
73.       Annual production of stock and certified seed from the 18 seed
centers would reach about 200,000 tons by 1990, a near doubling of present
output. In addition, annual production of scions and budded seedlings would
be increased by about three million. It is expected that the domestic market
would easily absorb project output. First, as the sole local seed suppliers,
the project centers would have an assured market for their hybrid seeds
(hybrid rice, corn, sugar beet and vegetables). Second, project improved
nonhybrid variety seeds would be in demand because of their superior quality
which would decrease production costs and increase output and returns. Third,
many of the seed centers already do business with regular customers on the
basis of advance purchase contracts; these assured markets would be expected
to be maintained and to expand with the current trend toward increasing inter-
provincial trade.
74.       Base retail seed prices - which refer to bulk, untreated seed only -
range between 15 and 25% above the commodity price in the case of conventional
varieties and may exceed the commodity price by up to 50% or more in the case
of hybrid seeds, thus allowing the seed companies to sell their output at a
reasonable margin (10-20Z) over their costs. Modern seed processing would
increase the cost per kg of clean seed because of higher operating costs and
the screening out of poor quality seed during processing. The Government has
assured the seed centers that retail prices for their fully processed seed
would be set at least 20 to 30% above full production costs. Given the scar-
city of high quality seed in China, such a moderate increase in retail prices
would not be expected to encounter market resistance. This is especially true
since the increases in price would be more than compensated for by reduced
production costs and increased yields.



- 23 -
Benefits
75.       The increased seed production achieved under the project would be
sufficient to plant about 2.8 million ha (instead of 1.5 million now):
900,000 ha of rice, 1,075,000 ha of wheat, corn, and soybean, over 80n,000 ha
of cotton and other cash crops, and over 20,000 ha of vegetables. The project
would also produce an additional three million fruit tree scions and budded
seedlings and enough seed potatoes and sugar cane sets to plant about
77,000 ha. The major benefits to the farmer from using the higher quality
,:roject seed are decreased costs of production by about 5%; value enhancement
of the product associated with a change in variety - e.g., better and more
uniform cotton fiber; and increased production arising from improved yields
(output/unit area) primarily attributable to improvements in the genetic,
physical and physiological qualities of the seed planted. Expected yield
increases from use of improved seed alone are in the range of 10 to 15% for
cotton and sugar beet; 6 to 8% for corn; 5 to 8% for soybeans; 4 to 6% for
wheat; and 2 to 3% for rice. The resulting annual incremental crop production
from project seed would include about 110,000 tons of rice, 160,000 tons of
corn and wheat, and over 60,000 tons of cotton. The principal long-term
benefit resulting from the transfer of seed technology and expertise under the
project would be rapid modernization of China's seed industry. The 18 project
centers would serve as trial and evaluation units in designing plans for con-
struction over the next two decades of over 300 additional seed production,
processing and distribution centers throughout the country, and as catalysts
and suppliers to new project seed centers. By including a broad range of
major food and cash crops, the project would promote diversification of the
seed industry at the same time as encouraging expanded production of certain
crops - e.g., vegetables and fruits - expected to be in increased demand as
incomes rise. The major benefit to the seed industry from strengthening NSC
operations would be establishment of uniform national standards for seed
quality assurance and control, an essential first step in the planned expan-
sion of interprovincial seed marketing and distribution. The model seed
curriculum would contribute to raising the level of training in seed science
and technology. Social benefits from the project include increased production
and incomes for some 3.7 million farm families.
Financial Analysis
76.       The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project as a whole would
be about 12Z, with FRRs ranging between 8 to 17% for individual seed cen-
ters. Seed centers supplying hybrid seed would have somewhat higher FRRs than
seed centers supplying conventionaL seed. A cash flow analysis for several of
the seed centers was performed using the assumption that retail prices would
exceed total costs of production by 10%. The seed centers would have no
difficulty repaying project funds within 20 years, including a five-year grace
period.



- 24 -
Economic Analysis
77.       In the economic analysis, incremental costs of seed production have
been estimated as 15Z of labor costs and 51 of nonlabor costs. The economic
cost of unskilled labor is considered to be Y 2/workday for unskilled and
Y 4/workday for skilled. The Y 2/workday for unskilled labor probably
overstates the opportunity cost of labor in China. However, the economic
analysis is not sensitive to use of a lower shadow price for labor. Estimated
seed processing costs cover electricity and other utilities, coal, bags,
permanent and seasonal labor, treatment chemicals and miscellaneous
expenses. Marketing costs have been estimated as the transport expense of
delivering project seed. Major uutputs, traded inputs, and labor have been
valued at projected economic prices (an average of 1983 and 1995 economic
prices in 1983 constant yuan). Discou-,ting costs and benefits over 30 years,
the economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole would be about
38%. At a discount rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the
opportunity cost of capital in China, the net present value (NPV) of the
project would be Y 686 million. The ERRs vary considerably among seed
components (from 19% for rice to 49% for zotton), but are satisfactory in each
case. The highest ERRs are for the production of seeds with relatively large
expected incremental yield, viz., food grains (except rice) and cotton.
Sensitivity of the ERR was tested to a 20% investment cost overrun, 20% and
50% increases in operating costs, and a 50Z decrease in expected benefits. Ho
single variant proved critical to the economic viability of the project or any
of the project's components. A 50% reduction of benefits would reduce the
project's overall ERR to 17Z.
Risks
78.       The proposed project faces no significant technical risks since it
involves proven seed processing technology that has been in regular operation
in other parts of the world. To ensure effective transfer of this technology
to China, the project would provide a program of technical assistance in plant
design and equipment procurement as well as training for equipment operators
to supplement that customarily provided by equipment suppliers. Given the
fact that a sound organizational structure for seed operations is already in
place, no significant problems are expected during project implementation.
The seed companies are functioning effectively in terms of seed multiplication
and are becoming increasingly profitable commercial operations. The project
centers are adequately staffed w-ith technicians and managers recruited from
affiliated companies and seed farms.  Personnel have also been appointed to
the PMOs. A possible project uncertainty relates to the capability of the
NSC, as a relatively new agency, to handle the task of coordinating project
activities.  This uncertainty would be minimized by the fact that the PMO
includes not only NSC staff but also representatives from the NCP Project
Office and the BSF, both of which have had previous experience in implementing
Bank Group projects.
Environmental Effects
79.       Project activities would be environmentally neutral.  Mechanized
seed drying and processing produce dust but not more than traditional



- 25 -
winnowing, and dust control systems would be provided. Seed treatment
materials used would be relatively nontoxic, used in small quantities, and
colored with intense dyes to ensure that the treated seed are not used for
purposes other than planting. Use of the seed as a delivery system for
systemic insecticides and fungicides would reduce the quantity of pesticides
by ten fold or greater as compared to application to the growing crop. The
acid delinting technology provided would be the type specially developed in
the U.S. to reduce the environmental hazard to acceptable levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
81.       The conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the
following:
(a) China's State Council shall have-approved the Development Credit
Agreement (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and
(b) The project implementation agreements between MAAF and the provinces
shall have been executed under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Develcpment Credit Agreement).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
t                                                            A. W. Clausen
President
March 20, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-26                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
.IU   PUoP.3  U.0?F-  5ocw         TOsS^ DsA  u
czas fup:ss or  c xWm  tolO,            *X A
1I .        1370       hS!    L      as1 4  4CIIC          ASIA & 1A1cC
*    rs co   UiI *e. M)
TOML                               3531.0       9331.0       933L.0
LAIWLSAL                          32.7.5       33aa.0       39W.9
GM  MCAP=  (Mu)                         40.0 1e     30.0        310.0          273.5                    0IL.1
mit cmauzu on cIFT1,1
(CEZLO3UU OF O1L S20IVALENT)        171.0        250.0       4L1.            272.0                    37.3
DIJAUO AM WTIUL STAUTSTI
POUM3A1 ,Iff.B-TZA  C(IIDa1)   587100.0    83700.0   1006175.0
NU  POMAUION (Z Of TOTUL)            13.5 A         ..        io.5            21.7                     34.7
POPVULATEON 53S33C110
P010or21CM IN mm2000 ca (L)                                1135.3
U=Oru  POPOUTEO  (KLL)                                     L251.0
OSO1         N1131                                            1.7
POPOATION IMS313T
Yu SQ. M1.                         71.9         55.3        103.8          154.5                    251.3
M  SO. Ut. AGI. LOD               211.1        217.9       235.8           343.5                   1733.1
POPMATION AZ sTRCTRZ CZ)
0-14 uS                           35.3         37.7         30.            3                        33 .
15.44 uS                          35.3         37.2        63.3            53.6                     37.5
U3 AND *AN10                        4.8          5.1         35.             4.3                      3.3
IOlULUTION aw M CaZE()
TOAL                                1.3          2.1          1.3            1.9                      2.3
A                                    ..           ..           ..            4.1                      4.3
C10 ur13 "Tx (un   3 TRO0S)          39.2 I*      34.0         18.5           27.7                     30.1
033 DRLAI UAZZ (t 33005)             23.3         10.1         6.6            10.1                      3.5
cam 013  CCTEOU 3421                  2.8          2.3         1.2             1.8                      2.0
1A1. IIAIIDIC
AIU t, UUAL (T10)               ..
ss cOF ArRxED wUY)                   ..           ..         59.4 ii          ..                     52.7
mAm mulzi
TM&" 0r m0 0    D 130   CAPITA
CL959-71-100)                          ..        100.0       124.0           112.                     123.0
PM CAPITAS SWIL 0r
CALOWIES CZ or E     _quIuUNEs)    93.0         U.0         107.0          -97.7                    114.4
r-115 (CRA1M  PE  DA)              356.0        53.0        5.0             SG.:                     37.0
0r OIICS ANIUL AND PUISE         16.0         14.0         17.0.JL        14.                      14.1
CB=  (ACES 1-4) DEr. RAZZ            26.0         14.0          7.0            9.3                      7.2
E  EXECT. AT 33I (EARS) *            41.0 lb      32.3        56.s            60.0                     50.4
xraxr mu. AZ  (WE ram) *            165.0 T      109.0        67.0            83.3                      6.3
ACCES TO SATE WAMM (NO?)
TOAL                                 ..            .        4.0             32.9                     37.0
D1                                   ..           ..s-0                     70.3                     34.5
PVr3L                                                                       22.1                     26.4
A--S TO SZTl  DISPOSAL
tS Or POPULATO)
TOrAL                                ..           ..           ..            8.1                     41.3
135AM                                ..           ..          ..            72.3                     47A
RA..                                              ..          ..             4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PE SICIAS               8390.0 /I   3830.0 11   1810.0 /I        3484.2                   7749.4
PoP. PE  NURSIIIC                  4050.0       2070.0-     1790.0          4793.1                   2460.4
POP. PER IOSPAL RED
SODL                              1040.0       760.0       490.0          1066.5                   1044.2
m33*2                             210.0           ..       160.0           298.0                    651.2
3.0311.                          10140.0          ..       1020.0         5993.5                   2594.6
AISIOS PER  OSITAL BED                 ..           ..           ..             ..                     27.0
AYTEEAG SIZE or OSNL
TOTAL                                ..           ..          5.2
0312.                                ..           ..         4.2              _.                       .
2TMAT                                ..           ..5.5
AVERAGE N.0 OF PE0S/30oM
IOTAL                                ..           ..
RIA                                  ..           ..           .               ..
ACCS TO ELECr. (10O  DWEL.NcGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
XrAuL                                 ..          ..           .               ..



-27 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
auua^. 91091.2933. 07 - *Cam. XINIOAOSl DAT SU
PUS?                      (US?t  riCtfA ES? 3  A
ADJUSTU ,%UM.IE   RATIOS
PRImMRI    TOTAL                  109.0       110.0      L17.0                96.1                     101.2
Nag                       ..          ..       126.0              107.                       LOG .
IAL                       ..          ..       106.0 a.9                                      37.3
su3wWDR?J TOTAL                    21.0        23.0        34.0               30.2                      64.9
MRA                       ..          ..        0.0                37.3                       30.0
FuIAI                     ..          ..        27.0               22.2                      44.4
VOCANAL  2OW SCDNDAR)                  ..          ..         2.2                2.3                      to 3
4                       7UPSL-TzAoR RATIO
FRDlA1                               ..          ..        26.0               34.4                      32.7
SE3wDIt?                             ..          ..        17.0               18.4                      23.4
ADoLT LZT3ACT RAM (2)                43.o/d        ..         9.0               33.3                      72.9
PASSUIVICS  CARSIT1OI'SAiD POP         I. ..                   ..                1.6                       9.7
RADIO RCZ SITNOUSAN DO                 ..          ..       1.6                 9.9                      113.T
TV KCZVfS  TNOVSA     O                ..          ..        13.6                9.9                      30.1
NWPAPX VDAZLT CE036.
10Iu3Sr) CIRCPLATION
P   T APO POPULATON                   ..          ..          ..               16.4                      34.0
CINUW AIUMAL AT!UDACEICAPITA           ..          ..          ..                3.6                       3.4
TOTAL LAKSt POE! (TNIOUS)        3t93f9.O, 377493.0   463348.0
rauLE (sPICZNT)                   36.3         38.0        37.2               33.3                      33.6
AiCIILTVNE (PUUwI)                   ..          ..        4.9                69.0                      50.9
uTR  (PIENIT)                        ..          ..        13.7               15.6                      19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE CPERCENr)
TOTAL                              46.864      65.0        46.7               42.35                     31.
KALE                               53.9471    53.          37.0               54.4                      30.7
FLZ                                37.ore      35.0        33.9               29.6                      26.6
ZOOVc DElJDEC  RATIO                 0.9L         1.0         0.6                1.0                       1.1
PERCEN  Or PRITATE INCOME
RIOREST 3S OP OSMENCLOS              ..          ..        12.3/k             16.3                      22.2
ERWZ1T 20r oorOPOUtDS                ..          ..        39.37E              3.53                    46.0
GiZST 21K or R     Ums               ..          ..          .<                6.9                       6.4
LaOSU   403 0W uor    us             ..          ..        ts.&L              17.5                      15.3
ESTIMATED AUSULUTE POVETY 111001
LEM   CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                 ..          ..          ..              133.9                     194.S
RAL .                                ..          ..          ..              111.6                     135.0
Z.S' TATED REJATIVE PMVERY 121001
LVE  CUSS PER CAPITA)
URRAII                               ..          ..          ..                ..                      178.0
RURAL                               ..           ..          ..               ..                       164.8
ESTIATED POP. 1L0W ABSOLUTE
POVUR?  s2C03 LEM. C:)
0u33                                 ..          ..          ..               63.6                      24.4
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                51.7                      41.1
NOT AVAILAELE
1OT ALICALZ
N 0 T ZS
la The group averges for such ledlcator *rt populatier-Aig)ted aritt_tic manse  Coerqe of cuemtrle _ame   the
inicators depend oan Salebility of data and In not ee ifor-.
Jb  Unl..s otherwise noted, Dato for 196e  refer to any year betwm. 1939 and 1961; 'ata for 1970  between 169 and
1971; ad data for -net Recent Satimte  betumn 1979 and 1931.
/c SnrArpolated 1957-2 data: /d 1964: /a 1955-65 werue; f Percentae of   ne of raetoecttSe ae; /  1933-54
swrae; lb Seior doctor of iecern e_dician; /J1 1962; 7f  1937; tk  iletribtuion of peopLe ranked by bmiehllde per
ceplta income.
A1l populatleon a*d vtal statistics are  rank eatinete  which differ from OCinase offiLel *tatitrcr.
Fareed eduoced. oly; non-for_l  nroellmat in subsantial.
Deflation *ed cawer.ge dlffer from these of Cbt01. official *tetiacles.



- 28-                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
bes iuubd.c. to.  dim- fleofewct  sudct  .   sbieleactic'hic. _iWOteI  st. 'b   S.d euc lbs  --fL-. b isceslfi
ehcut.  bun c ON      ttCdl.eade .cdis  ede. u   -muse me   diiieseeiew             i. l isee  del ltesu   t ds.lCdb O. s.l.  uSS
dVet.  e.e.c efM  re s 1c et.,  mstsecs i      No a a..s oe.es.e.dt Omje. d5ibCssee -,NN anmends.         SW    fi   RIN  b.O.Sftei    WI  h
-lb  ise e- mm c-l. (ii lmb emeespufe all   e-     n aim  t    lmar. .5  (te seme. g..   tu ""a. IW  Ibis. %n.mee   Wn ethu- b  ay p. 
*iilflttet   En Sb f5isteel see  d.c. Sb. ent"w  -v  -qse. Cmishaes ec1theasI. wein VW. -A  iitea., a0 c. alp em ..jelty .1 au  mansRI  See
s"ha "Me ir cb  lqiea..  lce  lb. --.scmd n.Sfe1Wlealeadto   lalb  ideiicuc    iefe   - lb. caul.hltati W1 4d..5 lees Cl efiee,  ~1il  MOB is
sMcet.d le L.ieulc Setues cI - ledttlee .c a Sb?. lb.. e-mcme.. eeIV sdeS 5. seemrie. bs .1 I-O - 155mw a . 5mm  lb wInyaw ad
ItWbONNO'   hae.be                                                             hniee1LAU.t         ?fn i-int5cieel  dsca hy -a.e   a pr.5ee"i4
%    - red  min  ewe  s~ciec  ted  c.. u  mete aems  eee.     ita ~~ WtdTc    e -aunt  at a anc-uisy tent.
0 a  tes st..                                                        leejttse.t.eief...p-   Ulmtse  d5fldd hy mIArO 50 P.s." S.te
flfj-Iln.  ad qitlesites  I-. eu uee.stntr -  mcncnsp                      bl      hJeib   iO.e, alem  umt  weeded aemwa  ae
I.c..e   as. . ee e.7fihe, ae hitts. faeds  - Melt. Meshes sin,s                e.csi  muireltn.
Ole elet   Owed booi ttut ted
meml  she - *.5d "t- Asi-a 5554obte. 1-.hshttc-cca                              ftf- i. ..).bsgeie em - nce-sims psimmipwdelfed
ieee. tApe aLos   de,                                                              tre  em,        bste.s  lsehtte"ssO sc -dIr  wSOlON5, R.mtes
- ansiss.peiet eeseuleee   niele_aunt n.sa ew e;.il   stars IN ledsild.n .eae
M.9 a  tees d          ees III 91 Nt-f. M"hns 1haJi 1i  -1 Pue  a.  adteseec -iec-
dsuesCdnrsi- Cie.e.cescec.es1i me MusesN tecrhims a d..                          af tti. 0ml. ins ..    ASen tdee 107 s-a.fe      i teetmse
-. elseries  195 rtam,ta  meet i.e.                                              lb messstiCe.eesie.ect  espess
hrjflsIlUiOf .lit                                                                Aesietles mac c ..~CL_I i.. -Ccm- q.pissdineees
iiiiU niti5Flj  us" -. ... cbl  eecstiraPest.cfietles  csucsZdlmtr-. "1. bci                                          - sid ee- 2O.smmee ctccls usL
tseeicseeste  115.  I- -htesPr a  hilt iscsue beftch9 un.sl -c                 "q.- cc  tuelI...iy  f-iee alf    &-ut ltme    - ceces. s.e. 1-a i
Oedpit se   O. tent, usurs.. q  .eussm   sueicr Wt.s -  It. .                    CCWOsecus.cIas lAs. sc  sissitls  ts9 tinSF ,usn  -tdo
dr-tislb -t  emcar i.  iecctisCvpaylee.ek  s.- cb   seat,                       a  cIteS -cm pl.5 Isle bde-tWlse   ieepsttt s-           e
au E er L- semiP"ih   -a  ees.a.eit. eiiti                                                                         - Cc...taut  mie  stet
u5 eemt t Sbdet  sl.Sb          -etsL1cs is- R. ases,usSbl.eeics   etI  12.n. Wscts  retJe   e .mi e sl
ec.sh- .Me IsCh. uic siat-me   peettt slss 'emd -eete.    s   5b                  silt., emictessiis  i.ial   fldc es
tess.O ar Sb piiseis  ectusctclc  .1 A. ...sem    . 5 eOr p.                     icuii  as     nl  ...   at      ee  -  m"ws eessss
it            , ten mIwre  nlbcsus C   1.7 peslstus sces Ch. e1 sinse             M#.ic  Se.e.nss    -W Resc             me lt  tesetes 
beeici  u  5OCOO   cst` sme.em  tsculuc  is be.suceed  th1f-  eO                     it ca IF       'itce 5".-s.  -P IIIIIsO "CscmIA.eesin nen
isd.logo RiSe     ,1 c.ce.ls ee  ec.b   mt    S                                   seett  eisi
ma, ..  c- pete 's is i           :Wes ji    ee -  5 nt.LIs du                  iuln   sec.me  Isic ela ..cssed -5 esetec  eela
asutme46.  Role5ssa  .nttcle d cusimel   sS  pc .es                              etd   ecset   acs.s  lk  cee    t   pi
eseeci,     UIse.                                                                es-ec .     istiai   -  Ie.,ussesie   -=tesbscees-  meltd 
md-p.. cs.es piCsc   unccfs   -esne1 "deAIeeWcde IwI.t..
ft.l.WON -   Seas... (e. Cc. 5- sisesiu             C.-s5   .eaee.h tie-t "                                                                     C
perpugiues"      .sa-,sesi,a    i.z                                             ccii.etosen Cs.Ibs  cesiess  - au cye a_ mseis. le COSle
"wtcem fec a2litg-It   Wlale-F    lw594.                                    tss.-trslasIs mateea  ep.    bn csueeCeeA"  ci s
Csad set-   sr.m.ei-imtItu   ie   e  weta-,m    -i  ica   iee-m.J.   pc.n   mi  use    te   m
p-n mmisea  ans aL, A seII de1.  mlalb--    C                                                ciserT.e tcc.mu.ed..
Crs  dl  esfee   ess     cn    u    .   hSc LOOFc                         tbl   .    iiseee  .ncc.             .I- tmia -1s_- e.uea
usr etewsat a-, safe, ast55  de-..                                                 assis 1.1.I-t il  .     meel th.s ieTV              - eid   ees...ii ft-.1
tIES.                                                                             setles11ceed t1cip  ccIWO.eams  a.cc5 c.dls
ple.ia.                                                                           licul -c  de-I"e  tie Ice, WeisnIMe  aet - -2  dune.-is        d_.n
ruSt, itmin - Sein (nee AI1 sleici mes -  i.ce b.ceel S cents                       ssst sstte.I  .-p_            ~f     1  
mm S  l5tdisccsq .u  ec. aIS _.._i cem  bIVed  enm1   rV--I.                                                               h.Oea
SCAM- snuffs -cenista. sees ternusfa"'des
Tl~iUi~~isiess mi Cei. uuercna-ie   c  s  e                                 !m4ti  s   -rus tte fls   ssas   ase  ats  are
..-I P- metsn.c5sipueme.;ss-cl. se    ad ise                                      as illi ist,I.. ..I  -
r~Iced,R                       -W     .-d=_wdf~                                 reti"gsnc   ms.lelss -f  lelsE ecu..f- ewi6renMM  W 1nsspss1      -
-W sIe  I-Cur-1 ceaelce (aces -i eeeutis-ecst - ee C...fin                         .rlcs  ces  si aUbsd Cus Inet sIc.  ain    ce
eaf  Oedesss e-  micasetseule. i4-0     .      aucs- I. -h   -eic s.c             iaMrecs.    -1 se St. -t us l,-I,q Or tele  UReI5 sese lm       ai
ssese  .c. stInscd hi tA bu   cc.Zst. eeim.d  is-. nins                 items J. isssiel sells -W Isc-  -1 icassi -ss Ied'   cih        el
cc  msbs  55n5; ils-s  em.  us sn_ ie._                                        u.s. sisisiecisa                                    W ~       _
tsrra -.ne d. Drel  c.nelds - Nsa.ceeeseS-pc -pse                           ict.se. sI     4es. Sea cbsI.. sel iee asi5  -ft  ilsued  hiccic
-1cesc  e e5eelise -uetc-e  hi IS piie tsr  ssen                                 ies
mice piicis.   I*fleb5. sims  -bsi is aims prIre  l..171T filfc..?mail
ccddcc.iet  ls sanW a.1   51 elms a c-c.icn as 51 ers..l letimen escSmc,s u   ayupateeme M4 e-eestb ast~e. -
a nim  pOfci -       are   s.ss  ud W-.--I,     .W Wedaee hiM5  b                5ut  sisice !!F. ind.ieitese.ci
dese,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=KC                                                                              INilsidL-S.
Iil tn  i--elleu  -e .0(e ceaIW -Ld W.e5 -1db p, lAbs.utf                     Initeed 1sscs i,sccc, See -sise . -ISenin- et-ebs o ,e
el in   5-d Jnfl. Is  116s-is. IsO cIs as  w;is.  *sel                           .sI,' lellt  pecs cam.- t        Is seI -esLi 5 n..c  pe  u
tilW lsstlsee *1 Mie. lesimi- cnc-  sabier I .c sse I.as   ssceseea  rure  - ensI                                W-ieseuuc lliss      rect - c  eb.tee
usias blie5ilt eels Ccci cemauds - Ssui call, aC 55lmm.  sisl ef
-c  me,c   M s eleci5c  Sehe 1., IMiMasctiee
sc.su  ectl. Icnt.l a- AeIclss-esu    ls  u   en
u.iacsic*ec,  elese, a tines etch ieesci Weecmc  esCei.I   sies.   c   s
.sts   -mi  ie-55s                    I'Mednneml   -cseimc  beteeriaiu   sl..timesls
msecewed sIWa    b   r   iseliisei                        -p.se .us.cid
-".. sc    , ses.dce ---M ISeI ist .-Ir  Ic lcessicecus dc  J11c
hin.  5 uc. scmceahi   lt   st Wseas'           Ch.l   MDset -a
O-ma - JR    sit  (ct   is            ee   icdysii  utese
eensnc IC     si lc- cls  isicibiem."ciite lauses m  usas
ciN -teuc  us dseecs, 1-   -We t-be  cic   *,-I to  s.l.c
ast- cs  by m.n-b.a siscen    ese              P - p..iiiu  u



-29-                                     ~~~~~~~AMWK I
-29  -                                                 ttL
Population    t  1, 00  million tudd-1942)
0Ol per Capitat  M310  (1982)
031A - PC0IoWC  I8DICATOU
Ans"I ret -t1) *elill 1-e^1Tee Prf
Indicator                                     1057-70   1970-77   1978        lCot (80             IR Cntt Price
(aetip,at.
Productian
cross output
Apricultur.                                 2.s        %.4       4.0      8.6        3.9       4.4       11.n       4.5.
Light industry                              3.3       7.N       1A.8     '4.6       13.4      14.1        5.7       3.7
Reavy industry                             11.6       0.3       1M.A      7.7        1.4      -4.7        0.9      12.4
Not MaterLal Product (f31)                    5.2       4*.       12.4      7.0        6.1       4.8        7.4        0.1
1957      1970       1977      1973      1q7q       19,0      1931       1032       1383
Prices
stai'L price idex f1970-100)   92.2        100.0      102.7     103.3      105.4     111.7      114.4     116.6      113.3/1
NlP deflator        (1970-100)   00.7      10A.0      09.1      100.5      104.5     n1.4      110.5     1l0. Ie 111.7
Exchanse rate       (YTISS)        2.46      2.46       1.16      1.63       1.55      1.50       1.71      1.R9       1.9 7
Aneunt                                                             Averspe  Annual Crowth
1982                  Shares of CDP (X)                         (C) at Constant *rtces
National Accounts           tS bin)      1957     1970      1932     1985      1990     1957-7n   1970-79   1974-32   1982-90
CDP                          264.5       1nn.0   InO.0    100.0    100.0    100.n          5.3        5.-A      S.1        6.5
Agriculture                 47.5          .     3 32.5    36.4     36.0     29.4         1.6        3.2       5.1        3.2
Industry                   107.0          ..    41.5     40.4      43.0     45.7        12.1       R.9        7.4       3.2
Other                       60.0          ..    24.0      22.7     23.0     24.9         3.5       4.3        n.3        7.R
CooBu.ption                  184.4        76.4    63.4      69.7     70.0     71.0         2.7        5.4       5.H        6.8
Investment                    76.0        23.2    32.5      26.7     30.1     29.R         9.8        6A.       n.9        7.0
xuortc  GNFS                  23.5         3.7/b   6.0      3.9       0.0      4.6         1.6/h      *.0/%    14.4 0.-
laporta  iNTS                 19.4         3.57tr  6.4       7.1      0.3     10.4         2.371-    9.4ATi     7.7       11.3
Nbtional aVinea               R0.1        23.6/c  31.9      30.3     30.0     29.0
An 2 or COYP
Public Pinance                                                       1057           1974            1481            1981
Current re_nue. (excluding foreitn borrowingI                      23.7           34.5            31.9            24.1
Current expenditure.                                               16.1           22.3            23.1            21.1
SurplUe (+) or deficit C-)                                        +12.6          +11.7            44.6            4.7.8
Capital expediture                                                 11.9           14.0             9.9             9.4
Foreign borrowing Id                                                0.7            n.9              1.4            n.7
Other Indicators                                                   1957-74         1979-12        1982-90
GDP grorth rate (2)                                                                 5.1            6.5
CDP per capita growth rate (2)                                      3.R            3.9              5.3
Energy conmption prmth rate (2)                                     3.5             1.9
IC0R                                                                5.4.
MarPdnal saving  rate                                               0.42
Ieporcr elastiity                                                   1.6             1.5
la  NMO bami.
7W  Goods only.
7Tc oDs.
7;i Crone.



- 30 -AEX
rage-5 of 6
Popualaion        1,008 dilllon (mid-1982)
CGP per capita: US$310 (1982)
CHINA - EITERNAL TRADE
Amount
(million US5 at                Annual prouth rates (2) (at constant 1980 prices)
current prices)                     Actu                                  Projected
Indicator                              1903         1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985         1986
External Trade
Narchandie exports                22.223          17          16           6          10         14            5             5
Energy                            4,466                                  ..          ..
Other prImary                     4,947                                  ..                    ..
)knufacturem                     12,557                                       ..           ..                ..
Other                               253          ..          ..
Ibrchandile Imports                18,970          17          -9          10          29        30            8
Food                              2,735          ..          ..          ..          ..        ..
emrgy                                99          ..          ..          ..
Machbnery and equlpment           3,537                                                    ..          ..
Other                            12.599          ..          ..          ..         ..
Prices
Export price lidex (1980-100)                     100         103          99         89         S6           90            95
Import price Index (1980N100)          ..         100         105          91          79        76           80            85
Term  of trade index (1980-100)        ..         100          98         108         113        113         112           112
CoDposition of merhandise trade (Z)                       Average annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices )                                 (at constant PrIcec)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1985      190      1957-70  1970-79   1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         1.6      8.0      12.9      9.6         4
Energy                 25.1      22.9     23.8      20.1        11         0          ..       ..
Other primary          25.4      24.1      22.8     22.3        24        24          ..       ..
Monfactures            46.5      47.8      50.5     56.5        60        71          ..       ..
OtXbr                   0.0       5.2       2.9      1.1         5         5          ..       ..
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         2.3      9.4       5.4     21.9         7
Food                     ..      19.6      22.5     14.4        16        17          ..       ..
Energy                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.5         0         8          ..       ..
achkinery and
equipmnt             27.5      24.2      19.1     18.7        24        25          ..       ..
Other                    ..      56.2      58.5     66.4        60        50         ..        ..
Share of trade with          Share of trade with         Share of trade wlth countries wlth
industrial countries (Z)       develoPing countries (2)    centrall  Planned economies (Z) /a
1978    1981    1983          1978    1981    1983              1978       1981      1983
Direction of Trade /b
Exports                        37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1              11.1        3.9        4.7
imports                        73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2               9.2        4.5   -   6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern lurope, Cuba, North Korea and Nongolia.
/b  Based on IMF:   CbLuna - Recent Economic Developments,' October 1984, p. 90b.



-31-                                           AMM I
pag  6of 6
Pepudtloa      t  1,008 dtlltfn (uid-1982)
CNtP per capital US$310 (1982)
CHINA - 3ALANCE OP PAIMfNTS. CXTCURAL CAPITAL ANID DCET
(ilLionuS U5$ at currCnc prices)
Actual                                    Pro7jcted
Indicator                                             1979       1980       1981       1982       1913 93a9TA IS85                1990
b  ne f  Fsnts
gew oi!refaMoudt*ed services                      15.351    20,901    25.157    25.989    26.389    29.060    32.000    53.300
Of which:  HIrchandisa f.o.b.                  13.658    18.492    22.027    22.476    22.223    24,450    27.000    45.700
X ports of goods and services                     18,204    24,752    24.380    20.793    22.448    28.060    31.900    62.600
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  16.212    22,049    21.047    17,830    18.970    23.710    26,900    52.600
Not transfere                                        596        500        680       412        511        600        700        800
Current account balance                          -2.257    -3.351       1.457      5.608      4.442      1,600        800    -8,500
Foreign direct investment (net)                        -         57        265       359        478        670        B00      1.500
LTS[ L[Dn  (nec)                                     800      1,130       416        426        899      1.000      1.200      4,000
Officlal                                           350       44         479        557        789
Privere                                           450        684        -63       -131        110
Other capital                                      2.054      2,555        365      -102    -2,481    -1,070    -1.3l0         1.000
Change in net reserves  "-" - increase)             -597      -391    -2.503    -6,291    -3.338    -2.200    -1,500           2.000
tnternational reserves                            7.274      7,665    10.168    16.459    19.797    22,000    23.500
of whIch:e  gold                                 5.120     5,120      5.120      5.120      5.120
Reserves as months lports                            4.8        3.7        5.0       9.4       10.6        9.4       868
Exteral Capital and Debt
Gross dsebur    nts
Concessional Loans                                    .          ..
DAC                                                      ..               .
OPEC                                                .. 
Other                                               ..        ..
Nonconceesioonl Loans                                 ..         ..
Official export credits                             .         ..
IM                                                  ..        ..         .           ..
Other multilateral                                  --          -
Private
External debt
Debt atetatnding & disbureed                               5.433      5.785      6.058      6.397
Official                                          .
Private
Undisbarved debt
Debt service
Total service paymeats
interest
Payments as Z exports GNFS                                   5.8        8.6/a    10.9/a       5.5/a
Average Interest rate on new loans (S)
Averge m turity of nev loan  (years)
/- Including some early repyment of principal.



32 -                                                 ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS INSTHE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CRINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                                                     US$ million
Credit                                                                              Amount (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrower                      Purpose                            Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of China  University Development                100.0    100.0        84.9
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  Agricultural Development                -       60.0       33.9
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Ports                                 69.0        -        65.1
1297    1982    People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research             -       75.4        40.2
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                     40.6      30.0        64.3
2231    1983    People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                     162.4        -        155.4
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan Petroleum                  100.8        -        100.0
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Helongjiang Land Reclamation          35.3     45.0        51.0
141    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University               -       85.0       79.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                   -       10.0         8.9
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                      -      100.0       89.3
2382    1984    People's Rapublic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4        -        142.7
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway I                            220.0        -        219.5
1462 .  1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                            -       50.0       47.2
1472    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.            -       85.0       78.3
2426    1984/a  People's Republic of China  Xaramay Petroleum                    100.3        -        100.3
2434/1491  19847TE  People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit II                 105.0     70.0       170.8
2444/1500  19847F  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education         45.3      23.5        68.8
1516    1985TW- People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research            -       25.0       25.0
Total                                                          1,124.1    758.9    1,625.1
Total now Held by Bank and IDA                                 1,124.1    .
Total Undisbursed                                              1,087.8    537.3
B. STAXEMENT OF TFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
None
/a Became effective on October 9, 1984.
7T7 Became effective on October 9  1984.
7c Became effective on October 17. 1984.
7Td Signed on December 3, 1984; not yet effective.
Notes:  (1)  Loans of S117 million (Second Power Project) and S126 million (Changcun Coal Minlng Project)
and a credit of $148 million (Second University Development Project) were approved subsequent
to the above date of Statement A.
(2)  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is uDdated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX IIr
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
(c) First presentation to IDA
and first mission:                    April 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         August 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             March 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          June 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) training of staff of project centers and implementing agencies would
be carried out in accordance with a program agreed between IDA and
the Government (para. 61);
(b)  a repo-t presenting the main findings of the studies of seed supply
and demand, marketing and prices, and quality assurance and control
would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1987 (para. 63); and
(c)  the MAAF PMO and provincial PMOs, with their attached advisory
groups, and other local PMOS would be maintained and adequately
staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the proposed
project (para. 71).



5  70p                              82                               940
SOVIET              UNION
'.ochu~g* -;iii,ei                  2MONGOLIA
HuxhDg.       Kltn                       >
.AkmSu          XINJIANG                            K
AFGHANISTXN
82n
This map has been prep.Med bv
The WnOd Bank's staff exchISA9                                                3 I N G H A I
tor the converience of the
readers and is exckmwely tbr the                          .AN5U
internal use of The World Bank
and tfhe lntemaional Fi7ance
Corporation. The denom0nations
used and the boundaries shown
on th's map do not impi*. on the
part of The World Bank and the
hIternato  Ffinance Corporation.
any njudmet on the legal status                      x I Z A N GC
o0 any territory or any                                                                                  r;.  VAN
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                          Qiongbi
such boundaries                                                       94                              Meisharf
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT                                                   26
Seed Center Production                                 ;                      Mile
and Processing Locations
Provincial P,oundaries |
--- Intemational Boundaries                                     BURA f          r h      VIE (
BURMA"       '          VIE-
KILOMETERS
0      200     400     600      800    1000                                    LAO   PEOPE';
'1DEM. REP< 
MILES                                            THAILANDANE-
l      -'M'  \'



IBRD 18548
lOI  118                                                                                 .4 '..  13'   14..
f   ~~   >~~/      H~ulunbeir                                                                j 
HEI tONGJIANO              ?          !              - 
fiULAANBAATAR                     -, 
/                                    ; I ' j N                                              J ''-  . f    1 _ \  .
*Gonfgzhuling
A*                                     rACTh'NG           fl2                      Sea of Japan
.                               : # rv .#\f~~~~~J: N . 
> WuloKh,zbu                            Suizhong         ,      z/PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Wulonckb *  S        ;    -' _- .- ,OF KOREA 
M- ?NGGOL             .BEUING                            j        PON-ANG                                              JAPAN-K
. .At           A E 6
S EOUL*TIY
T. ', . - *Y:v   ix,     , ellow    :-REPUBUC-
5HA N-   Lingxion                                             KOR EA   O
. ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ Ycm              ..                                                   .
5 H- A A N X,       i   YF N  J legn f4, 
Gboyang       flnghuo--              Eos t Ch7;nar
lS.iN _,G- IA                                               --. S            Sea   So
*Q    -- .   ,SHANGHAI
.Mionycing                      L   rg-
26'
Neijiing    FLolin  -  H<         Mi JShiang               .E! A '"   '    .
Changshao  h   h       Fhou"  *  --                                             C;AN  C
Dluzhol.    YichnFho
(               ~~~~X;rtht.N    bfLinl   -'  N   t-
Oidong Hegyang             EJian 
c uI -H e L      Jingxion   *                      *i
-Mi 'n*gLingling   Gonzho
N;   g   F* Bongxion                           Deng-
lianjhiu
-.           Xi-iua      L.mj    '      k.,,,AN
CUA(NC  X  I                   Kuitan   '
J'--FHONG KONG. U.K.
<'A ., MACAO, PORT.
_NAM                   "Piansn
' 0HANOI
);;>                3 ~ i-?o,   - South China Sea
* ; -F\*                                                   .         PHIUPPINES
-ieN                                                                     1984
NOVEmsER 1984






