Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5348-CRA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CH'INA
SEEDS PROJECT
March 18, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its c-ontents ma% not otherwiise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00   = Y 2.8 (January 1985)
Y 1.00    = US$0.36
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)          =   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (kin)        0.62 miles
1 heccare (ha)       =   2.47 acres
15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.2 pounds
1 ton (t)            =   1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
-I.NCIPA_L ABBRE'LITIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC      -   Agricultural 3ank of China
AITC     -   Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation
BSF      -   Bureau of State Farms
CAAS     -   Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CIAT     -   Interna;ional Center 'or Tropi.-al Agriculture
CITMYT   -   incernationaL Maize and Wheat improvement Cencer
CIP      -   international Potato Center
CNT'C    -   China National Technical Import Corporation
GVAO     -   Gross Value of AgricuLturai Output
rRR!     -   InEernat ona. Rice Research Institute
MAAF     -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MOF      -   Ministry of Linance
NSC      -   National Seed Corporation
PBSF     -   Provincial Bureau of State Farms
PCB      -   People's Construction Bank
PMO      -   Project Management Office
PRS      -   Production Responsibility System
tpn      -   Tons per hour



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Variety: A subdivision of a plant kind which is distinct, uniform and stable
when reproduced.
Hybrid: First generation of a cross produced by controlling pollination and
by combining two or more inbred lines, one inbred or single cross with an
open pollinated variety, or two selected clones, seed lines, varieties or
species, e.g., hybrid rice.
Certified Seed: Seed produced in compliance with regulations and in confor-
mity with standards established by the MAAF (NSC), usually comprising
four seed classes: breeder seed; basic seed; stock seed; and certified
seed intended for crop production.
Breeder Seed: Seed from first step in multiplication process usually produced
under supervision of originating breeder; source for production of
subsequent classes of seed.
Basic Seed (Foundation Seed): A class of certified seed which is the progeny
of breeder seed.
Stock Seed: A class of certified seed, usually the progency of basic seed
used as source for production of certified seed or commercial seed.
Production Seed: General term applied to seed intended for crop production as
opposed to seed production; commercial seed is common synonym.
Seed Company: Unit or agency at the different levels of government involved
in the seed production and supply system. Companies at the provincial
levels and above are primarily involved in planning, allocation of
production, supervision and certification; units below the provincial
level (e.g., county or municipality) produce, process, store and market
the seed.
Quality Assurance: Refers to positive and systematic procedures installed and
actions taken by management of a seed company to attain and maintain
established seed quality standards; often referred to as internal quality
control.
Quality Control: Refers to controls and regulations established by an
external or independent agency, i.e., agency not directly involved in
seed production, for the production, processing and marketing of seed;
seed certification has the central role in quality control.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  .........1......................................                                                     1
Introduction  ....... ................................................                                     1
The Agricultural Sector ..... ................                                                             1
Bank  Group  Lending  for  Agriculture  ....................                                              4
II.    THE  SEED  INDUSTRY  IN  CHINA  ...............................                                                  5
Background ......... ....................................                                                 5
Institutions ...........................................                                                  6
Seed  Processing  Methods   ........  . . .    ..................   ......... .                           9
Seed  Production  and'Distribution   ......................                                               9
Seed  Prices               ......................                .....................                   11
Support  Services  ............................... 0            ......................                   ll
Project  Formulation  and  Rationale  .....................                                              13
III.          THE  PROJECT  .................................  .... .....................                               14
Project  Description   ....... ............                             ................                 14
Detailed  Features   ..               ......... ...... . . . .   ..................... .                 15
Status of Project Preparation .................                                                          19
Implementation Schedule ...............................                                                 19
Cost  Estimates   .                .......... ..... .....               .................. .             19
Financing                 .............................................                                  21
Procurement                   ...........................................                                21
Disbursements   .............                     ............................                           23
Accounts  and  Audits   ...................................                                              23
Project  Management  and  Implementation                                    ..............               23
IV.    MARKETS,  PRICES  A-ND  BENEFITS  .............................                                                25
Market  Prospects   ...................                       ...................                        25
Prices             ................................................                                      26
Production  Benefits   ............                                            .. ..-.....               28
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission comprising
W.P. Ting and C. Ku (IDA), J.C. Delouche, P. Harrell and A. Piazza
(consuLtants) in May 1984; and an appraisal mission comprising W.P. Ting
(IDA), J.C. DeLouche and A. Piazza (consultants) in August 1984.



Page No.
Demonstration Effects and Other Benefits ....  ..........  31
Financial Analysis ....................................    31
Economic Analysis ....... ......................... *.. ........ .  32
Risks ... . . . ..............                             33
Environmental Effects ..... o...........................   33
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................     34
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Cost Summary  *    ...............................................  20
3.2 Annual Price Increase ......     ................................  20
3.3  Financing Plan ........................... o   .................  21
3.4  Procurement Profile .......    ..................................  22
4.1 Current and Future National Seed Production and Utilization..    27
4.2  Seed Production Costs and Retail Prices ..o    ..................  29
4.3 Current and Future Seed Output          .    .    .    .30
4.A  Economic Rates of Return ........ o...........................  33
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates
Project Cost Summary
Schedule of Expenditures
Expected Price Increases
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Cost Summary by Institution
Buildings
Seed Farm Development
Seed Processing Equipment
Laboratory and Office Equipment
Farm Implements and Machinery
Vehicles
MateriaLs
Overseas and Local Training and Study Tours
Technical Assistance
2. Project Institutions
Locations 5f Project Institutions
Seed Center Staff
3.   Area Sown to Improved Varieties
4. Seed Drying, Processing and Storage
5. Economic Analysis
Typical Variable Costs (Financial) for Seed Processing
Typical Variable Costs (Economic) for Seed Processing
Economic Prices for Traded Goods
Economic Costs and Benefits
6. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- iii-
LIST OF FIGURES
1. Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
12. Representative Organizational Structure of Local Seed
Companies/Farms
3. State Farms Administrative Structure
4. Representative Organizational Structure for Local State Farms
Bureaus/AITC
5. Organization for Project Implementation
6. Seed Production Calendar
7. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 18548 - Locations of Project Institutions



CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:  People's Republic of China
Amount:    SDR 41.7 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:     In support of the Government's seed industry development program,
the project would modernize facilities at 18 seed production,
processing and distribution centers in 12 provinces and two
autonomous regions. It would also strengthen operations of the
National Seed Corporation (NSC), the central agency under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF)
which is responsible for developing a comprehensive seed quality
assurance and control system. The project would contribute to
increased production of high quality seed for major food and cash
crops and serve as a model for planned construction over the next
two decades of over 300 modern seed centers throughout China.
Principal features of the proposed project would be construction of
processing and storage facilities, laboratories, offices, and staff
housing for the 18 centers; improvement of farm roads and irriga-
tion works at seed center farm sites; and provision of pre-
cleaning, drying, processing, testing, analytical and farm equip-
ment. The project would also include a technical assistance and
training component designed to facilitate access by China's seed
industry to advanced seed techntlogy, modern quality assurance and
control systems, and improved management methods available within
the international community. The project faces no major technicaL
risks since it involves proven seed processing technology that has
been in regular operation in other parts of the world. Any
uncertainty regarding overall coordination of project activities
would be offset by the fact that the central Project Management
Office would include, in addition to NSC staff, representatives
from the Bureau of State Farms and the North China Plain Project
Office, both of which have had previous experience in implementing
Bank projects.



Estimated Costs:
Local           Foreign         Total
----- US$ mln ------------…
Buildings                             18.0              2.0           20.0
Seed farm development                12.9               2.3           15.2
Processing and laboratory
equipment                           2.1              18.8           20.9
Farm equipment and materials          2.4              13.3           15.7
Overseas and local training           0.1               0.8            0.9
Technical assistance                    -               0.5            0.5
Base Cost                       35.5             37.7           73.2
Physical contingency                   1.9              2.8            4.7
Expected price increase               4.3               4.6            8.9
Total Project Cost              41.7             45.1           86.8
Financing Plan:
Total
IDA                                  40.0
Provinces, Prefectures
Counties and Seed Centers          46.8
Total                                86.8
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY          1986       1987      1988       1989
Annual                6.8       15.2       14.0        4.0
Cumulative            6.8       22.0       36.0      40.0
Rate of Return: 38%



CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
r. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance to
support the first phase of a seed industry development program. The proposed
project would modernize facilities at 18 seed production, processing and dis-
tribution centers in 12 provinces and two autonomous regions. It would also
strengthen operations oI China's central seed agency, the National Seed Corpo-
ration, in particular its seed testing and certification services. The pro-
ject would contribute to increased production of high quality seed for major
food and cash crops and serve as a model for planned construction over the
next two decades of over 300 modern seed centers throughout China. Principal
features of the proposed project would be construction of processing and
storage facilities, laboratories, offices, and staff housing for the 18
centers; improvement of farm roads and irrigation works at seed center farm
sites; and provision of pre-cleaning, drying, processing, testing, analytical
and farm equipment. The project would also include a technical assistance and
training component designed to facilitate access by China's seed industry to
advanced seed technology, modern quality assurance and control systems, and
improved management methods available within the international community. The
National Seed Corporation and the Bureau of State Farms, two central agencies
under the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries, would have
primary responsibility for project implementation.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of
income for about 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35% of the
country's CDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor and
organic fertilizers, and, more recently, chemical fertilizers and other agri-
cultural chemicals. Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated and more than
half of this area grows at least two crops per year. Foodgrains occupy about
80% of the cropland and account for 55Z of total agricultural output. This
intensive system of production allows China to meet the basic food needs of
its population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the
world's arable land. Crop yields are about 50Z greater than those in other
developing countries and for some crops in some areas - e.g., cotton in
Xinjiang - yields approach those in developed countries. Agricultural produc-
tion is carried out largely on household-managed farms within a framework of
collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets.



-2-
1.03      Agricultural development has been accorded high priority since the
founding of the People's Republic. With public sector investment in agricul-
ture averaging about 10% of total national public sector investment, the
sector grew by about 3.2% p.a. from 1955 to 1978. Agricultural productivity
per hectare of cultivated land increased considerably. Grair. yields nearly
doubled between 1952 and 1978; the most rapid increase occurred in the years
1965-78 when Government policy put special emphasis on achieving local self-
sufficiency in grain production. These gains, accomplished through combined
application of abundant local labor and modern inputs such as improved seeds,
chemical fertilizers, and mechanical threshers, allowed China to feed an
additional 300 million people. Remarkable as this achievement was - given the
arable land constraint - total production in fact did little more than keep
pace with population growth during the period. Moreover, the Government's
policy of promoting increased local self-sufficiency in grains checked growth
of production of other non-grain crops. reduced interprovincial trade in
agricultural products, and, in some extreme cases, led to deterioration of the
land base. By the late 1970s, official assessments began focussing attention
or the unsatisfactory state of people's incomes and living standards, parti-
cularly in the resource-poor areas of che northwest and southwest.
1.04      Beginning in 1979, the Covernment departed from previous policy by
giving greater priority to improved consumption Levels while scaling down
goals fur growth in GNP and investment. The challenge of the coming decades
is how to increase the production of food and other agricultural products
needed to meet this commitment to improved living standards for China's vast
population. As an immediate measure, the Government shifted emphasis at the
local level from grain self-sufficiency to crop diversification based on
comparative advantage so as to tap potential gains from specialization and
exchange. Already the effect has been considerable: the total area sown to
grain crops between 1979-82 declined by 6Z, while the area under cash crops
rose by 30Z. Nevertheless, as a result of increases in per ha grain yields,
the total output of grains actually increased along with that of cash crops.
1.05      For the long term, the Government is in the process of refining
subsector growth targets and activating the means to achieve them. Major
targets for food and cash crops are as follows:
(a)  Rice.  According to current projections, rice production would grow
by about 1.8% annually from the average 1980-82 base to the year
2000, though the area sown to rice would remain constant. Increased
yields would be the major source of output gains. A major factor
expected to contribute to increased yields is the projected
expansion in the area planted to hybrids from the current level of
about 6.8 m ha to 13.3 m ha in 2000.
(b)  Other Foodgrains.  Although the area sown to wheat is expected to
decline marginally from the 1980-82 base to 2000, the Government
projects wheat production to grow more rapidly (2.6% p.a.) than
other najor grains (except corn) as a result of widespread adoption
of recently-developed early-maturing and disease resistant wheat
varieties which have performed well in field trials. For corn, the
Government projects virtually no change in the cropped area to 2000,



- 3 -
but expects production to grow by 2.6% and yields by 2.8% p.a. The
main sources of yield increases would be improvements in seed
quality, fertilizer application, and cultural practices. Current
plans also call for increasing the productivity of other food crops
such as tubers and soybeans.
(c) Horticultural Crops. Expected increases in per capita income would
create new consumer demands for more and higher quality fruits and
vegetables and their off-season availability. Projections for the
year 2000 show a three-fold increase in the demand for fruit and a
change in the variety of vegetables included in the typical diet.
Present production of fruits and higher quality vegetables is low, a
primary constraint oeing weakness of the processing, storage, trans-
port and marketing systems.
(d) Cash Crops. Current Government planning stresses the need to
improve yields of cash crops such as cotton, oilseeds and sugar
crops, the demand for which is expected to expand rapidly as inicomes
rise. In the case of cotton, special encouragement given to
production by price and procurement reforms and the planting of
improved varieties stimulated a 22% expansion of cropped area and a
72% increase in yields during 1978-83. With modern inputs and
improved extension, cotton specialists believe that further yield
increases of up to 50% are possible.
1.06      Key elements of the Government's strategy to achieve these growth
targets are:
(a) improving incentives for producers - e.g., making the farm house-
hold, rather than the collective, the basic unit of management and
production in agriculture; providing higher procurement prices for
farm produce, and expanding the flow of credit to rural areas;
(b) facilitating crop specialization and commercialization through
reforms in the farm price structure and relaxation of regional pro-
curement and sown area quotas;
(c) expanding agricultural research activities with an emphasis on
increased use of modern inputs and technology;
(d) strengthening the agricultural extension svstem to facilitate
transfer of relevant technology to farmers and feedback of
production problems to research units;
(e) creating improved and well-integrated systems of production,
storage, transport. and mnarketing;
(f) continuing and strengthening past programs for boosting agricultural
output - e.g., production of certified seeds, construction of
irrigation works, application of fertilizers based on soil and
foliar analysis, and development of pest management systems.



- 4 -
1.07      Improved producer incentives, a renewed emphasis on specialization,
and continuous infusion of new and improved crop varieties are among the prin-
cipal factors contributing to the high growth performance of the agricultural
sector since 1979.  The gross value of agricultural output (CVAO) in 1983 grew
by about 9.5% following growth of 11% in 1982, 5.7% in 1981, and 2.7% in
1980. Since 1978, GVAO has grown at an annual average rate exceeding 7%, or
more than twice the rate achieved over the previous two decades. Demand for
agricultural products is expected to increase steadily over the next two
decades in response to increasing per capita income and moderate population
growth. China's cultivated area will remain essentially unchanged over the
period - land lost to roads, urbanization, and industrial development will be
approximately offset by newly reclaimed land. As a result, the production
gains required to feed a population growing by at least ten million per year
and to supply the raw materiaLs to meet rapid growth in industrial demand will
have to come almost entirely from increased yields on existing cultivated
areas.
C. Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
1.08      The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production through the
more efficient use of land and water resources and improvements in support
services such as credit, research and agricultural education. Projects are
also being selected for their demonstration and catalytic impact in addition
to immediate income generation. Suitable opportunities are likely to be found
among a wide range of activities and locations. The first 3ank Group opera-
tion in the agriculture sector, the North China Plain Project (Credit 1261-
CHA), is providing irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of
nine counties in three provinces; it is the first large-scale attack on soil
salinity and waterlogging in China. A second project, the AgriculturaL
Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA), is supporting the
Government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the agri-
culture sector by providing technical assistance and equipment to selected
agricultural colleges and research institutes. The Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA), the Bank Group's third agri-
cultural project in China, has as its main objective dereloping new land on
state farms in the Northeast for wheat, corn and soybean production. As its
fourth investment in the sector, the Bank is financing a Rubber Development
Project (Credit 1917-CHA) in Guangdong Province; the project will assist in
the new planting and replanting cf about 40,000 ha of rubber. The most recent
project in agriculture, the Rural Credit Project (Loan 1462-CHA) which became
effective on November 1, 1984, will finance investments in Guangxi Province
for the development of orchard and other tree crops, agro-processing, live-
stock and aquaculcure through the Agricultural Bank of China. Other projects
at various stages of processing include: the Second Agricultural Research
Project (Credit 1516-0-CHA). s-gned on December 3, 1984, which will expand and
improve 15 agricultural research cencers; the proposed seeds project; and a
forestry project ccvering commercial timber production and forestry research
and extension.  V..ture project possibilities include a second credit project,
aquaculture, irrigaatcn and drainage, red soils development in the southern
uplands and land devel=omen. in --ne Northwest.



-5-
II. THE SEED INDUSTRY IN CHINA
Background
2.01      Scientific seed improvement in China dates back to the 1920s and
1930s when Chinese researchers produced improved varieties of cereals,
legumes, cotton and tobacco and encouraged introduction of other high yielding
varieties from abroad. However, efforts to establish a network of seed multi-
plication centers to produce superior seeds for sale to farmers proved inef-
fective. Most of the seed sown in China continued to be farmer retained seed;
this and the little commercially available seed were of poor quality, a factor
contributing to low crop yields and production. The situation remained
unchanged in the early years of land reform after 1949. It was not until the
1956-58 period that the Government launched a major effort to shape a national
seed program. In 1956, the Ministry of Agriculture created a Seed Management
Bureau to help design and provide technical guidance to a network of county
seed centers to be established by provincial and county authorities. Although
about 80% of all counties could boast a seed center by the early 1960s, most
centers were inadequately financed, understaffed, and underequipped for seed
operations except on a small scale. The annual output of certified seed (i.e.
seed which meets established standards of varietal purity, germination,
cleanliness and moisture content) duri.ag these years reached only about
300,000 tons, a mere 3% of total national seed requirements.
2.02      By the early 1970s, with the introduction and release of improved
varieties of most major crops, there was an upsurge in farmer demand for high
quality seed which further underscored the inadequacies of the existing county
seed centers. In response, counties in Shandong, Jiangsu and other provinces
began to establish specialized brigades to coordinate seed multiplication,
processing and distribution. In the mid-1970s rapid expansion in use of
hybrid varieties (rice, corn, sorghum), which require renewal of seed for
every planting, gave rise as well to experimencs with joint county-commune
production of stock and certified seed. Along with such new ventures came the
introduction, albeit on a limited scale, of small-sized seed drying and pro-
cessing equipment from abroad. In 1979, as part of its program of economic
reforms, the Government sought to build on what had been largely local initia-
tives in seeds development by launching a comprehensive plan to strengthen the
seed industry. In what was termed the "four and one policy", specific
emphasis was given to introduction of new seed technology and expertise,
increased mechanization of seed processing, improvement of quality control and
seed certification standards, rationalization of seed distribution in accor-
dance with regional needs, and coordination of seed production activities by
county-level institutions. This policy is still in force though the county's
role as coordinator of seed production has been deemphasized and increased
actonomy in decision making given to seed enterprises at various local levels.
The seed industry aLso has felt the impact of widespread adoption of the
production responsibility system (PRS), the generic name for various contract-
ing arrangements designed to Link incomes and rewards more directly with the
efforts of individuaL producers. This new reliance on individual initiatives
and smallholder production has increased denand for certified seed and
i



- 6 -
confronted the seed industry with the challenges of maintaining uniform
standards in seed production and raising seed distribution efficiency.
Institutions
2.03      National Seed Corporation (NSC).  As a result of the reorganization
of the central government in 1982, the two central agencies responsible for
national seed production, the National Seed Corporation (NSC) and the Bureau
of State Farms (8SF), are now a part of a single ministry, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF) (Figure 1). The NSC, esta-
blished in 1978 to repLace the Seed Management Bureau, functions as the chief
regulatory and policy/planning agency for the seed industry as a whole.
Unlike national seed agencies in some countries - and despite its name - the
NSC is not itself a seed producer. Its major role is to develop national
policy guidelines for the seed industry, to establish nationai seed testing
and certification standards, and to provide cechnical guidance and training to
a network of locally-financed and administered seed companies. In addition,
the NSC coordinates domestic seed production and distribution and regulates
international trade in seeds. The total NSC budget for 1984, covering both
capital construction and operating costs, was about US$35 million.
2.04      With a staff of 90 professionals, the NSC is organized into six
technical divisions: testing, certification, multiplication programs,
processing equipment, planning, and marketing. The agency is in the early
stages of creating an effective quality assurance scheme for seeds (testing,
certification, legislation), a key constraint being lack of experienced staff
to manage such activities. NSC testing services are handled at present by
fewer than ten technicians; activities consequently are limited to conducting
selected tests two to three times per year in response to requests from local
seed agencies. Nevertheless, progress is being made: revised national seed
testing standards were issued in 1983 and plans are now underway to establish
a central seed testing laboratory. As part of its efforts to regularize seed
certification, the NSC has appointed a national seed selection committee
charged with coordinating regional tests of new domestic and imported varie-
ties and developing appropriate certification standards. Participants include
researchers from the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science (CAAS), univer-
sity professors, and personnel from the BSF. Developing seed legislation is
the responsibility of the NSC's multiplication programs division which also
provides guidance on management and technical matters especially to farms in
poor regions, and organizes training courses for provincial-level managers,
agronomists and technicians involved in seed production operations. NSC-
sponsored training is conducted on a contract basis by four agricultural
institutions, Northwest Agricultural College, Shandong Agricultural College,
Nanjing Agricultural College and Zhejiang Agricultural University.
2.05      The NSC's processing equipment division is responsible for monitor-
ing equipment procurement for 14 model seed plants, 11 handling cereal grain
processing, two cotton, and one vegetable seed. These processing plants are
part of a centrally-funded pilot program begun in 1978 to improve seed pro-
cessing, storage and distribution at selected sites. By 1980 a total of 12.0
sites had been proposed for central funding; to date only the 14 have been
approved for major investments amounting to about US$25 million for processing



-7-
equipment and civil works. The NSC's project planning division advises on
seed industry investments in general and supervises investment of NSC's own
limited development funds in joint ventures with provincial seed companies.
NationaL statistics on marketing and distribution of seeds are compiled by the
marketing division. The marketing division also coordinates a modest but
expanding import-export business in seeds, primarily through an affiliated
import/export company in Guangzhou. Currently about 500 tons of soybean,
hybrid sorghum, vegetables, corn, peanut and garlic seeds are exported to
Japan, North Korea and Poland. Arrangements are also being made to import
cotton, corn, sugar beet, sunflower and rice seeds as well as apple seedlings
from the US, Japan, Yugoslavia, West Germany and Romania.
2.06      NSC - Affiliated Local Seed Companies.  Since the 1979 push to
strengthen China's seed industry, 28 provinces, municipalities and autonomous
regions and about 2,300 prefectures (or cities) and counties have established
seed companies under local agricultural bureaus as special agencies to handle
production and marketing of seeds (Figure 2). Coverage extends to nearly 90%
of the country's 2,700 counties and county-level constituencies. The typical
seed company has a staff of 25, about 20% of them technicians, 15Z administra-
tors and the remainder workers and support staff. The seed companies are res-
ponsible for seed production: they manage about 2,300 seed farms, the majori-
ty of which produce stock seed (progeny of the original genetically-pure
breeder seed). They also contract with nearby townships (xiang-formerLy com-
munes) and villages (cun - formerly production brigades) for further multipli-
cation of seed. In Jiangsu Province alone there are at present 85 seed com-
panies, one provincial, 11 city and 73 county, managing a total of 107 state-
owned stock seed farms. The company-affiliated stock seed farms range from
relatively small operations with about 250 workers to large, self-sufficient
enterprises patterned after state farms: i.e. a farm with associated subfarms
supporting both agricultural and industrial enterprises and responsible for
social services such as schools and hospitals. Some of the larger farms have
populations of up to 10,000. The contract farms which produce certified seed
operate within the jurisdiction of local townships and villages but are sub-
ject to seed company inspection and quality control procedures. Under post-
1979 economic policies, seed company revenues from the sale of seeds and
various management and technical fees have risen to the point of allowing a
small profit margin. As a result, Goverlnment subsidies are being gradually
reduced. In 1983, 86% of China's 2,300 seed companies reported a net profit
(totalling 63 million RMB) with only 14% recording losses (of 26 million
RMB). This compares with figures of 64Z and 36% respectively in 1979.
2.07      Provincial seed companies have special responsibilities for overall
planning and quality assurance and control, including training seed inspectors
for lower level companies, inspecting seed crops in the field, sampling
processed seed lots, authorizing certification of seed and coordinating
varietal maintenance and testing. The main functions of the prefectural and
county seed companies are seed multiplication and processing; implementation
of provincial quality assurance and control guidelines; and purchase and
marketing. Each company prepares a production plan for its affiliated farms
subject to review by the appropriate local government planning conunissioxn and
agricultural bureau. Testing of new varieties is the joint endeavor of the
seed company, the provincial research academy and prefectural (city) research



-8-
stations. The testing area is province-wide; Jiangsu, for example, has over
130 test sites. Once a variety is grown experimentally over approximately a
three-year period, the local variety selection committee, a joint body wh'ce
director is usually appointed from the seed company management, evaluates it
for release. The company's certified seed multipLication section supervises
the work of both its affiliated seed farms and contract farms, supplying
technical guidance in processing operations.
2.08      State Farm Seed Enterprises.  Within the overall policy framework
provided by the NSC, the Bureau of State Farms (BSF), formerly the Ministry of
State Farms and Land Reclamation incorporated into MAAF in 1982, operates a
parallel seed production network which supplies seeds both to state farms and
collectives. State farms, which are economically seLf-sufficient entities
established originally for purposes of land reclamation and development of
China's vast frontier areas, currently number 2,080 with about 30% in eight
major border provinces and autonomous regions and the rest distributed fairly
evenly over 21 provinces and municipalities. About one-third of all state
farms, accounting for about half of all state farm workers, two-thirds of
culLivated land and half of total grain output, are directly managed by the
BSF with all investments, including capital outlays and operating costs,
supplied by the central government. The other two-thirds are directly managed
by provinces or counties and funded entirely from local budgets (Figure 3).
State farms altogether manage 30 million ha which includes 4.5 million ha or
4.5% of the nation's total cultivated area. To help meet future requirements
for food and agricultural raw materials of both collectives and state farms,
the Government is implementing a major state farms reclamation program, at an
estimated cost of Y 7.1 billion, to develop 1.1 million ha of unused land for
annual field crops, 60,000 ha for tree crops, and 2.2 million ha for improved
pasture.
2.09      State farm seed production activities are coordinated at the central
level by the BSF's Production Department. At the provincial level, technical
and financial assistance are channeled through the provincial bureau of state
farms (PBSF) and its chief marketing and promotion arm, the Agriculture,
Industry and Trade Corporation (AITC). A recent (as of the end of 1983)
innovation in line with the Government's policy of encouraging commercial
development, AITCs are already operational in most provinces; a central AITC
supervisory office has also been established within MAAF. Key AITC responsi-
bilities are interprovincial trade, imports and exports, and construction
including contract work outside the state farm system. After 1985 the AITCs
are expected to operate as true business enterprises, fully self-financing
entities responsible for managing investment of profits of participating
state farms.
2.10      Under the new AITC structure, seed production and marketing are
handled by an AITC-affiliated provincial seed company and branch seed com-
panies which operate at the state farm level (Figure 4). Multiplication of
seed is carried out by specialized subfarms (communes) within each state farm.
Thus seed production, as it is now evolving under the AITC/state farm scheme,
parallels the structure of provincial, prefectural and county seed companies
with affiliated seed farms that has deveLoped to serve the collective farming
sector (para. 2.06). Specific functions of the provincial AITC seed companies



-9-
are to disseminate infor-mation about improved seeds, introduce advanced tech-
nology, carry out a quality control program, and manage seed sales. The
branch companies, headed by state farm directors are charged with supervising
seed processing, treatment, and storage. The specialized subfarms are respon-
sible for production, storage and transportation of marketable seeds in
accordance with plans set by the AITC.
Seed Processing Hethods
2.11      The term "seed processing" (or the more modern term "seed condi-
tioning") encompasses the various operations involved in the preparation of
harvested seed for marketing: bulk storage and drying of raw seed as needed,
shelling (corn), delinting (cotton), extraction (fleshy vegetables, fruits),
pre-cleaning, final cleaning, sizing, density grading, treating, packaging and
final storage (Annex 4). These operations may be mechanized in varying
degrees or may be carried out using traditionaL methods - e.g. sun drying and
hand or machine winnowing. In China traditional processing methods predomi-
nate. For example, of the 5.3 million tons of rice, wheat, corn, cotton, and
sugar beet seeds supplied annually by the NSC and BSF seed enterprises, almost
90% is processed using traditional methods. The remaining 10% is mechanically
processed, but mostly using small-sized drying and processing equipment
designed for on-farm cleaning of seed on a limited scale. Some of this equip-
ment is portable and thus suited to joint use by neighboring production units
as needed. Most is manufactured domestically based on prototypes imported in
the early 1970s. The NSC estimates that about 8,000 of these items, mainly
low-capacity (0.5 to 1.3 tons per hour) gravity tables and combination
cleaners, are in current use by local collectives and state farms. Such
equipment is generally worn, outmoded, and inefficient. Seeds produced using
this equipment or traditional non-mechanized methods lack uniformity in size
and density as well as the benefits of proper cleaning and chemical treatment,
all of which adversely affect germination rate, stand density, earliness, and,
ultimately, recoverable yields. Only a small portion of the total seed
supplied by the seed industry - no more than 50,000 tons p.a. or less than 1%
- is processed by six recently-established, modern, high-capacity seed
processing plants. These are the first of 14 imported plants scheduled to go
into operation within the next few years (para. 2.05). While the six plants
have not been operating long enough to evaluate their overall success, some
initial delays in start-up and inefficiencies in operations point to: (a)
inadequate attention during the planning stage to facilities layout and
standardization of equipment for an entire processing sequence; (b) procure-
ment of single items of foreign manufacture often incompatible with domesti-
cally-procured equipment or inappropriate to the commodity being processed;
and (c) inadequate training for equipment operators.
Seed Production and Distribution
2.12      Under the NSC system, provincial, prefectural and county seed com-
panies act as principal agents in the production, processing and distribution
of seed. They purchase and process stock seed produced by their affiliated
seed farms and distribute it under contract to local seed farms operated by
townships, villages or specialized households, for multiplication into produc-
tion seed (i.e. seed sold for crop production). Nationwide about two



- 10 -
million ha are planted with about 300,000 tons of stock seed for an annual
yield of about six million tons of production seed.  All of this seed, which
represents about 35% of total annual seed requirements l/ (both farmer-
retained and industry-supplied), is grown under seed company technical super-
vision. In accordance with agreement-to-purchase contracts drawn up with the
townships and other production units at the time of stock seed distribution,
the local companies then buy a specified portion of the total production seed
output. In 1983 this amounted to about two million tons, or 12Z of the
nation's total seed requirements. Under current certification procedures, the
total six million tons of production seed output is labelled "certified" since
it was grown under seed company supervision. In fact, only the two million
tons purchased by the seed companies for processing and resale has undergone
rigorous inspection and testing. This is sold through company-run wholesale
and retail stores, some to local seed companies and production units, some to
companies outside the province. The balance - four million tons - is traded
directly by the units/farmers responsible for its production.
2.13      Under the state farm system, provincial and branch seed companies
operating under the AITC (para. 2.10) manage seed production and distribu-
tion. There are at present 323 stock seed subfarms in the business of supply-
ing 1,150 seed production brigades with enough stock seed to plant an area of
201,000 ha. Under the PRS, arrangements between the subfarms and seed
growers, which may be either brigades or specialized households, are made on a
contract basis. The annual output of seed for crop production is about
650,000 tons which represents about 4% of total national seed requirements.
2.14      Though historically the state farms have focussed on supplying only
their own seed needs, current trends encouraged by economic policies since
1979 show state farms increasing the amount of seed marketed both outside the
province and outside the state farm system. In Jiangsu, for example, plans
call for reversing the present three to one ratio between seed kept for state
farms use and marketed seed. A major portion of the planned increase in
marketed seed would be channeled to the collective system. About half of
Jiangsu's cotton seed production was sold to the collectives in 1983.
Nationwide, 1983 figures show about 90,000 tons or 14% of state farms total
seed output supplied to the collectives, usually on a negotiated contract
basis. In the case of certain specialty crops - e.g. fruits, potatoes - state
farm seed and nursery operations which are already well-established, are being
strengthened to respond to expected increases in national demand for these
products (para. 1.05). Over the next two decades, about 25% of state farm
seed (and other planting material) cutput is expected to be sold to the
collectives. The trend towards expansion of marketing has also meant
increased coordination of production planning between local state farms
bureaus/AITC on the one hand and the NSC-administered seed companies on the
other. At the center, too, there is growing interaction: a BSF representa-
tive has been appointed to serve on the NSC certification committee; pricing
1/   The total annual seed requirement for all crops amounts to about 17
million tons. Rice, wheat, corn, cotton and sugar beet seeds account for
about 13 million tons of this total.



- 11 -
and marketing regulations and seed testing standards are being developed by
the NSC to apply to both networks; and state farm personnel are participating
in NSC-sponsored training courses.
Seed Prices
2.15      Major adjustments in the level and structure of farm prices since
1979 have affected seed prices. For example, increases of 26% in 1979 quota
prices (prices of crops sold in fulfiLlment of procurement quotas) for wheat
and corn were accompanied by a corresponding increase in seed prices for these
crops. The flexible farm price structure which emerged following the 1979
price reforms has also allowed for some price negotiations in cases of inter-
provincial sales of seeds or marketing of new seeds - e.g., acid-delinted,
treated cotton seed - for which prices have not yet been established.
Currently, base retail seed prices are fixed by provincial or city price com-
missions subject to the approval of the State Price Bureau and other central
agencies. Current base retail prices for certified seed reflect full produc-
tion costs for bulk, untreated seeds plus a smalL premium amounting to 15Z or
more. (A more detailed discussion of seed prices is given in Chapter IV.)
Since seed production is considered an essential service to farmers, the
Government's recently announced measures to enlarge the role of market forces
in industry and agriculture are unlikely to cause major fluctuations in seed
prices. It is expected that price setting mechanisms currently in force will
continue to be used to assure farmers of adequate supplies of seeds at
reasonable prices, and, at the same time, to allow seed enterprises to become
financially viable operations.
Support Services
2.16      Crop Breeding Research.  Breeder seed is supplied to collectives and
state farms by national research institutes which are under the Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Services (CAAS), by provincial and prefectural
research academies, and by research institutes which are part of the state
farm system. Research programs in genetics and plant breeding at China's 66
agricultural colleges and universities are also contributing in increasing
measure to the development of new plant varieties. Currently more than 300
institutions nationwide are devoted to seed breeding activities. Since 1949,
2,700 new varieties of 25 different crops have been developed and evaluated
with 90Z subsequentLy released for planting. Particular success has been
achieved in developing improved varieties of rice, wheat and corn that are
high yielding, early maturing and resistant to major diseases. In the past
few years there has been an increase in various "fee-for-service" and/or
"exclusive release" contractual arrangements between the educational and
research institutions which supply the breeder seed and the agencies concerned
with multiplication and marketing of seed. In Jiangsu, for example, the AITC's
seed company has contracted with the provincial agricultural academy of science
to provide state farms with new seed varieties and technical assistance in
marketing subsequent generations of improved seed. The academy is to receive
a commission both on the supply of breeder seed and the sale of improved seed
while the state farms gain advantage as the sole suppliers of the new varie-
ties. Research institutions, agricultural colleges and seed companies/state
farms also routinely work together in financing and conducting field trials
for new seed strains and in making the final evaluation before release.



- 12 -
2.17      Extension.  Extension institutions have been notably effective in
the past in channeling improved technology and research results, including new
varieties of seeds, to farmers. Adoption of modern, high-yielding grain and
fiber crop varieties is widespread in China: e.g., for "non-hybrid" or con-
ventional rice, 92% of the total sown area is in high-yielding varieties; for
wheat, 93%; for corn, 75%; and for cotton, 85% (Annex 3). The recent shift to
a farming system organized around individual households has placed new demands
on extension services. Whereas previously the various levels of collective
organization could serve as major nodes in the delivery of production inputs
and technical assistance, now the support system requires direct links to
about 190 million production units which operate much as do small family-
managed farms elsewhere. In response to this requirement, the Government is
in the process of consoLidating previously separate local services, including
seed offices, into a single, county-level agrotechnical extension station.
The stations already in existence - about 300 out of a projected 2,300 - are
increasingly working with Local research institutes and colleges in such areas
as varietal testing, extension methodology and upgrading of staff at the grass
roots level.
2.18      Education and Training.  Of the estimated 400,000 persons employed
in &SC and state farm seed production operations nationwide, about 50,000 are
technical personnel, of whom 1,000 have the equivalent of college-level train-
ing and 10,000 secondary or technical school training. To upgrade the quality
of technical and managerial staff and to train new recruits, both the
NSC-affiliated seed companies and the PBSFs have initiated extensive training
programs. Most of the seed companies at provincial, prefectural and county
levels now offer short-term, in-service training courses in seed production,
processing, testing and management taught by their own technical personnel and
invited experts from local agricultural colleges. For example, in Hunan in
1983 nearly 50,000 seed personnel, including managers, technicians and
farmers, received some form of seed company-sponsored training in hybrid rice
seed production. The PBSFs and the state farms themselves have organized
similar technical training courses. For higher level personnel, the NSC
finances training at four agricultural colleges (para. 2.04) which have well-
developed genetics programs and which have begun to offer courses in seed
technology and science. About 320 persons attended such courses in 1983, over
90% of them from the NSC network and the rest from state farms. While the
overall number of seed personnel now receiving training is impressive, the
type of training, in some areas, needs to be strengthened to fit the require-
ments of a modern, efficient seed industry. Courses on seed processing need to
be updated to focus more on modern methods of cleaning, drying, storage etc.
and on questions of facilities design and layouts for equipment. Greater
emphasis needs to be put on training in quality assurance and control proce-
dures to enable seed company field inspectors, analysts and managers to carry
out more effectively than at present their tasks of providing technical super-
vision to production and processing units. Though management training of some
kind is now commonly available to senior seed personnel, courses offered do
not give adequate attention to such areas as modern accounting methods,
investment planning and data management.  The availability of managers trained
in these areas is of key importance to the rapid modernization and expansion
of the industry.



- 13 -
Project Formulation and Rationale
2.19      Providing farmers with a sufficient supply of high quality seeds -
i.e., seeds that have been properly processed and certified using modern
methods - is a key factor in raising yields and thus boosting the total value
of agricultural production. This is especially true in the case of modern
improved varieties which require seed renewal every few years, and hybrids
which must be replaced at each planting. The adoption of improved varieties
in China is widespread and increasing (para. 2.17). To help meet growing
demands for high quality seeds, the Government has encouraged establishment of
a national network of seed enterprises under MAAF's NSC and BSF. WhiLe the
basic mechanisms are in place, deficiencies in processing technology and
quality assurance and control procedures result in production of poor quality
seed; this, in turn, translates into excessively high seeding rates, increased
production costs and less than optimum yields.
2.20      To address these shortcomings, the Government has increased invest-
ments in the seed industry. Long-range plans call for establishing or upgrad-
ing over 300 seed centers throughout China. These will be integrated produc-
tion, processing and distribution units each comprising several seed companies
with affiliated stock and certified seed farms. By the year 2000, with these
seed centers in operation, production of fully-processed, high quality seed is
expected to reach 2.5 million tons per year. The major rationale for Bank
involvement in the proposed project is to support the Government in its
program to develop the seed industry. In particular, participation of the
Bank would enable staff of the NSC and BSF to gain access to improved seed
technology and technical advice available within the international community.
This would include advanced equipment for seed drying, processing, packaging
and laboratory analyses; techniques of preparing facility layouts and
developing uniform quality assurance and control procedures; and approaches to
technical and business management of seed enterprises. Over the long-term
this transfer of technology and expertise would facilitate rapid modernization
of seed processing facilities as well as strengthening the capacity of the NSC
to administer a modern national system for seed marketing and control.
2.21      Based on projected crop production requirements and considerations
of regional comparative advantage, the Government, in consultation with Bank
staff, selected 18 seed centers for inclusion in the project. The centers are
located in 14 provinces/autonomous regions representing principal producing
areas for major food and cash crops including rice, wheat, corn, soybean,
potatoes, fruit, vegetables, sugar crops, and cotton. An exchange of views
between the Government and Bank staff and consultants on the original project
proposal prepared by MAAF led to refinement and elaboration of the project
design. To facilitate equipment procurement, standard equipment packages and
layouts for processing plants were developed. Some adjustments in equipment
lists - e.g., for the cotton seed centers - were also made after review of
individual equipment proposals from the 18 centers. The IDA-financed
Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) is being used to finance two preproject
study tours of seed processing facilities abroad for personnel engaged in pre-
paration of bid documents for equipment. Discussions between MAAF and Bank
staff also led to introduction under the technical assistance component of
assistance to develop uniform quality assurance and control standards for



- 14 -
China's seed industry, to organize a model seed technoLogy curriculum at four
agricultural colleges, and to carry out studies of seed prices, supply and
demand trends, and current quality assurance and control practices. The
studies would provide a sound basis for designing a second phase seeds
project.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The principal objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government in developing the seed industry. The project would modernize
facilities at 18 seed production, processing and distribution centers in 12
provinces and two autonomous regions. It would also strengthen operations of
China's central seed agency, the NSC, in particular its seed testing and
certification services. The project would contribute to increased production
of high quality seed for major food and cash crops and serve as a model for
planned construction over the next two decades of over 300 modern seed
centers. The main features of the project are:
(a) construction of about 350,000 sq m of buildings for processing
plants, warehouses, testing laboratories and staff housing;
(b) improvements to about 28,000 ha of seed farms including land
leveling and construction or upgrading of 480 km of rural roads,
1,550 km of irrigation canals and drains, about 165 wells, and five
pumping stations;
Cc) provision of seed processing and laboratory equipment;
Id) provision of farm machinery, vehicles and materials;
Ce) locaL and overseas training in seed technology, quality assurance
and control, and management for staff of the centers and
implementing agencies;
(f) technical assistance to conduct seminars and workshops in seed
technology, quality assurance and control, and management and to
help develop a model seed technology and science curriculum at four
agricultural colleges; and
(g) studies of seed supply and demand, marketing and prices, and quality
assurance and control procedures.
3.02      The 18 project seed centers are located in 12 provinces and two
autonomous regions representing widely differing agro-ecological zones. There
are three centers in the Northeast (Jilin and Liaoning); four in northern
border provinces (Xinjiang and Nei Monggol autonomous regions); two in North
China (Shandong, Henan); three in East China (Anhui, Jiangsu); two in central
China (Hunan, Jiangxi); two in South China (Guangdong, Fujian); and two in the



- 15 -
Southwest (Sichuan, Yunnan). The project would cover the range of cultivation
patterns characteristic of Chinese agriculture from the single-cropping of
spring-sown cereals in the northeast to the winter wheat/summer crop cycle
typical of the North China Plain, the double cropping with summer rice pattern
in the Chang Jiang basin of central China, and the double or triple cropping
cycle followed in tropical areas of the country (Figure 6). In terms of crop
coverage, the project would encompass major producing areas for rice, wheat,
corn, potato, sugar crops, cotton, and fruit. Four of the 18 centers produce
hybrid rice seed and a fifth both conventional and hybrid rice seed. Eight
centers handle production and processing of seeds of other food crops
including wheat, corn, soybean and potato. Five of the eight also produce
some seed for cash crops, primarily cotton, sugarcane and sugar beet. Of the
remaining five centers included in the project, two (one in Jiangsu, the other
in Xinjiang) produce only cotton seed, one (in Xinjiang) produces only sugar
beet seed, and two (in Liaoning and Guangdong) are major suppliers of fruit
planting materials. In addition, the hybrid rice seed centers in Hunan,
Jiangxi and Fujian include vegetable seed processing. Locations of project
centers and their production and processing sites are given in Annex 2 and
shown on Map 18548.
3.03      Administratively, the ten NSC seed centers included in the project
are run by county or provincial governments whiLe the eight BSF centers are
primarily responsible to the provincial bureaus of state farms. Three of the
ten NSC centers are in counties included in the IDA financed North China Plain
Project (Credit 1261-CHA). Each of the 18 centers consists of a management
office usually in the provincial capital, processing facilities located on
provincial and county seed farms or state farms, and production areas which
are generally within a 100 km radius of the processing site. Each center is
staffed by about 25 technical personnel (Annex 2). The facilities presently
available for seed operations at project sites range from minimal (e.g.,
Xinjiang cotton) to adequate (e.g., Hunan-hybrid rice/Hejiashan farm). Most
of the sites have only drying floors for sun drying and simple cleaners and
graders. Some hand sorting of seed is practiced with large labor input for
small quantities of seed.
Detailed Features
3.04      Buildings.  The project would provide for construction and renova-
tion of seed drying units, processing plants, storage warehouses, seed testing
laboratories/offices, staff housing and other specialized facilities at the 18
seed centers. The sizes and types of drying and processing facilities would
vary with the kind and volume of seed handled: from the more complex layouts
for corn, cotton and sugar beet seed to the simpler layout typical of wheat
seed processing operations. A typical processing plant would consist of a
receiving area, drying/bulk storage area, processing hall (including a main
equipment room, an office and control room, a shop and spare parts room, and a
general storeroom), and warehouses for storage of processed seed. Storage
facilities for the most part would be of the ventilated warehouse type, but
conditioned storerooms would be provided in some cases, e.g., vegetable
operations. The project would provide for expansion and new construction of
laboratories at all seed centers. Housing would be built at most centers to
accommodate a planned expansion of center staff by about 30%. Unit costs for



- 16 -
construction of plants, warehouses, and laboratories would range from about
100 to 225 YIsq m and of housing from about 100-200 Y/sq m.
3.05      Site surveys and preliminary building designs prepared by local
survey and design offices have been approved, as required, by the Civil Works
Division within MAAF's Planning Bureau in the case of the ten NSC centers and
by the BSF's Technical Design Group in the case of the eight state farms
centers. Although termed "preliminary", the building designs in fact provide
all the necessary details upon which to base reliable cost estimates. Con-
struction of the NSC seed centers would be carried out by local government
construction companies selected by each center. The center would enter into a
unit-price contract with the construction company with prices based on Govern-
ment pricing standards. Technical supervision of construction would be the
joint function of the People's Construction Bank (PCB), the seed center and
the construction company. In the case of the state farm centers, the farm's
own construction team would construct project buildings. Supervision of con-
struction would be the shared responsibility of the provincial bureau of state
farms - or, where already in existence, the AITC seed company - the seed
center, and the PCB.
3.06      Seed Farm Development.  At full development, the total seed growing
area of the ten NSC centers would be about 89,000 ha and of the eight state
farms centers about 23,000 ha. The project would improve infrastructure on
about 28,000 ha of this combined area to bring it to the level required for
reliable, economic seed production. Construction and rehabilitation of drains
and irrigation canals and some land leveling would be undertaken on most seed
farms. Five pumping stations would be constructed and transformers, high-
voltage lines, and distribution lines supplied. The project would provide for
well drilling, mostly in the arid regions of Xinjiang. About 480 km of farm
roads would be constructed linking production areas to processing and
treatment plants. Individual sections of road would be 10 to 20 km in length
and fit into the existing road system. They would be designed and constructed
to the Ministry of Communication's grade three standard. Traffic on these
roads would be highly seasonal and reach a peak during the harvesting season.
3.07      Processing and Laboratory Equipment.  Equipment installed at the
plant sites of ten centers for rice, corn, wheat, soybean and/or sugar beet
seed would consist of receiving and precleaning equipment, continuous flow or
bin-type drying systems, buLk storage facilities, processing (cleaning and
grading) equipment including a main cleaner, sizing equipment, gravity
separator, treater, and semi-automatic weighing and packaging system with con-
veyors, holding and surge bins, dust and trash disposal systems, and other
accessory equipment. Equipment would be standardized to the extent possible
to facilitate maintenance and repairs and training of equipment operators. The
ten centers would collectively have an hourly capacity of 52 tons of cleaned,
treated and packaged seed. Two centers (Hunan, Shandong) would be provided
primarily with 35 individuaL processing machines for use at small farm sites.
The hourly capacity of the 35 machines would be about 17 tons of basic
cleaning. Three centers (one in Xinjiang, two in Jiangsu) would be provided
with a total of seven modern 2-3 tph combination acid-deLinting/processing
plants for cottonseed. Three of the plants would use dilute acid with centri-
fuge de-watering technoLogy, while four sited in the arid region of Xinjiang



- 17 -
would use acid-gas delinting technology. The combined delinting/processing
capacity of the seven cotton seed facilities would be about 15 tph of delinted
processed seed. The Nei Monggol Seed Potato and Qiansuo Fruic Tree Nursery
Centers would be provided with ancillary equipment including refrigerators,
dehumidifiers and electrical equipment. Three of the centers for hybrid rice
seed (Hunan, Jiangxi, Fujian) would also be provided with equipment for
extraction, drying, cleaning and packaging of v:getable seed, each with a
capacity of 0.3-0.5 tph packaged seed output.
3.08      Provision would also be made for purchasing seed testing and office
equipment for all 18 cer.ters. This equipment would enable the centers to con-
duct the full set of routine tests for varietal purity, weed content, germina-
tion, and moisture content, thus raising the level of quality control. The
project would also provide scientific equipment especially for the fruit tree,
cotton, sugar beet and potato centers. This would include incubators, growth
chambers, greenhouses, equipment for production of virus free planting
materials, and instruments to anaLyze fiber quaLity.
3.09      Farm Machinery, Vehicles and Materials.  The project would
strengthen the capacity of the seed centers to carry out Land improvements,
land preparation, and cultivation and harvesting operations by providing,
inter alia, tractors, plows, harrows, seeders, laser levelers, harvesters and
threshers. Other equipment to be procured for the project would include crop
dusting and spraying equipment and irrigation equipment, primarily sprinkler
irrigation systems. In addition, the project would expand and replace equip-
ment fleets for project centers through procurement of 153 heavy trucks (5-
10 ton capacity), 104 ton pickup trucks (0.5-1.5 ton capacity), and 83 vans
and microbuses. Trucks would be used primarily (a) to distribute stock seed
to contract farms for further multiplication; (b) to transport crops from seed
farms to processing plants - availability of adequate transport would reduce
the lag time between harvesting and drying so critical to production of high
quality seed; and (c) to carry processed seed to seed company sales units and
distribute fertilizer and pesticides to project area farms. Vans would be
used to transport materials and supplies, production crews, seed in,pectors,
and personnel. Materials supplied by the project would include: about 15,700
tons of fertilizers (mainly TSP and urea) and pesticides (e.g. carbofurar,) for
use on project seed farms during the first year of the farm development phase;
limited quantities of breeder and basic seed, either imported or procured
locally, for use in seed farm breeding programs; and about 5,500 tons of steel
and lesser quantities of cement, glass and lumber for construction of bins,
conveyors and other project facilities.
3.10      Training.  The project includes local and overseas training for seed
technicians and administrators in the operation of the modern production and
processing facilities proposed for the 18 seed centers. The project would
provide 600 man-months of local short-term (1-2 month) courses for seed center
and seed company/AITC personnel primarily in project and seed enterprise
management; seed processing, testing, and certification; and operation of
research instruments. This training would be conducted jointly by Chinese
seed experts and foreign consultants engaged under the project's technical
assistance program. Additional on-the-job training for equipment operators
would be provided by equipment manufacturers. Overseas training supported by



- 18 -
the project would consist of study tours and specialized (10-12 month) train-
ing for senior center staff and staff of project implementing agencies in seed
processing, testing and quality assurance, and enterprise management. About
eight one-month study tours with four to eight persons each organized accord-
ing to commodity would visit seed facilities primarily in North America,
India, Europe, and Japan. An additional group focussing on testing/quality
assurance and seed enterprise management would visit various quality control
agencies and private seed companies abroad. The project would also provide
about 31 overseas fellowships totalling about 326 man-months for selected
center and implementing agency staff for specialized training in seed proces-
sing and seed technology/physiology. Trainees would study at agricultural
universities and major international research centers such as IRRI, CIMMYT,
CIAT, and CIP.  A detailed description of project training including costs and
phasing, is given in Annex 1. During negotiations an assurance was obtained
that training of staff of project cencers and implementing agencies would be
carried out in accordance with the foregoing program agreed to between the
Covernment and IDA.
3.11      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide about 32 man-months
of foreign consultant services to help strengthen the technical and managerial
capacities of China's seed industry. Consultants would work primarily with
NSC staff and staff cf the 18 project centers and their participating seed
companies. Assistance would cover three broad areas: seed processing tech-
nology and operations; quality assurance and control including testing, certi-
fication, and legislation; and management as related to both purely business
activities and technical operations. In the first category, particular
attention would be paid to cottonseed processing, vegetable seed operations,
and sugar beet and potato seed technology, areas in which experience in China
is limited. Under quality assurance and control, assistance would be extended
to the provincial and county seed companies to strengthen internal quality
assurance programs and seed certification and enforcement procedures and to
the NSC central testing laboratory and selected provincial laboratories to up-
date seed testing methods. Assistance in seed enterprise management would
focus on introducing modern techniques of financial planning, accounting and
economic and financial analysis. In addition to the foregoing categories of
assistance, the project would provide consultant services to help strengthen
the NSC's regulatory functions and NSC-sponsored training activities. Seed
specialists would work with NSC staff and staff of Zhejiang Agricultural
University, Shandong Agricultural College, Nanjing Agricultural College, and
Northwest Agricultural College to develop both degree programs and specialized
short courses in seed science and technology. These programs would serve as
models that might be extended to other agricultural colleges. The project
would also provide foreign consultants to review designs of drainage and irri-
gation systems at selected project sites and to assist in preparing studies
(para. 3.12) of China's seed industry. Costs and phasing of technical assi-
stance are summarized in Annex 1.
3.12      Studies.  The NSC and BSF would supervise studies of (a) seed supply
and demand, (b) seed marketing and prices, and (c) quality assurance and con-
trol (legislation and regulatory) procedures. The studies would be carried
out by NSC staff with the advice and assistance of foreign consultants
(para. 3.11). Terms of reference for the studies were reviewed at negotia-



- 19 -
tions. An assurance was also obtained from the Government that a report
presenting the main findings of the studies would be prepared by a Project
Management Office (PMO) within KAAF (para. 3.21) and submitted to IDA for
review not later than December 31, 1987. The studies would encourage NSC-BSF
joint action in seed planning as well as providing the basis for designing a
second-phase project in China's seed industry development program.
Status of Project Preparation
3.13      The project is at an advanced stage of Dreparation.  Land has been
designated and site surveys and preliminary designs for new buildings prepared
and approved for all project sites. Funds from the IDA-financed TCC are being
used to finance (a) study tours to familiarize project staff wich up-to-date
equipment (para. 2.21); and (b) employment of consultants to assist in prep-
aration of bid documents for processing and scientific equipment.
Implementation Schedule
3.14      The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
in July 1985 (Figure 7). Detailed designs for civil works are well under
way. Working drawings and contracting arrangements with local construction
companies would be finalized during 1985 so that construction might begin by
December. Bid documents for the first packages of equipment would be issued
by the end of March 1985. Bids would be opened in June 1985 and contracts
awarded in August. Equipment deliveries would begin in early 1986 and be
completed during the first quarter of 1987. Training activities and consul-
tant services would be expected to start by mid-1985.
Cost Estimates
3.15      Tne total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$86.8 mil-
lion including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$45.1 million or 52% of the total cost. Cost estimates are detailed in
Annex 1 and suimnarized in Table 3.1.  Costs for buildings include a small ele-
ment of local taxes on materials, probably less than 19Z. Imported equipment
is exempt from taxes or duties. Cost estimates for civil works, goods and
services are based on June 1984 prices adjusted for expected price increases.
Civil works were estimated on the basis of preliminary designs using unit
prices based on similar type of work (para. 3.04). Equipment costs were based
on suppliers' current price quotations applied to detailed equipment lists.
Costs for overseas training were estimated at $15,000 per man-year for spe-
cialized training and $6,000 per man-month for study tours. For in-country
training, costs were estimated at about $170 per man-month. The contingency
allowance is about US$13.6 million or about 19Z of the project base cost.
Physical contingencies (US$4.7 million) equal 5Z of base costs for civil
works, equipment and mater.ls (1OX for seed processing equipment). For the
calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that exchange rate
adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain the parity of purchasing
vower during project imDlementation. Expected price increases (US$8.9 mil-
lion) amount to 11% of the base cost plus physical contingencies and are based
on the rates of price escalation shown in Table 3.2.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total       exchang-
-  (Y million) ---     (US$ million) --                  (X)
Buildings                  50.6      5.6     56.2       18.0     2.0    20.0          10
Seed farm development      36.2      6.4     42.6       12.9     2.3    15.2          15
Processing &
laboratory
equipment  .              5.8    52.7      58.5        2.1    18.8    20.9          90
Farm equipment &
materials                 6.6    37.3      43.9        2.4    13.3    15.7          85
Overseas &
local training            0.2      2.4      2.6        0.1     0.8      0.9        90
Technical
assistance                 -       1.3      1.3         -      0.5      0.5        100
Base cost                99.4   105.7    205.1        35.5    37.7    73.2         52
Physical contingency        5.5      7.7     13.2        1.9     2.8      4.7
Expected
price increase            4.0      4.3      8.3        4.3     4.6      8.9
Total project
cost                  108.9   117.7    226.6        41.7    45.1    86.8         52
Table 3.2: ANNUAL PRICE INCREASE
()
International      Domestic
1984                         3.5               3
1985                         8.0               3
1986-88                      9.0               3
1989                         7.5               3
1990-95                      6.0               3



- 21 -
Financing
3.16      Total financing required is US$86.8 million.  The proposed IDA
credit would amount to $40 million (46% of total project costs) and would be
used primarily for purchase of equipment, virtually all of which would be
imported. The balance of US$46.8 million would be met from a combination of
local sources, viz:
(a) funds from the budgets of provincial, prefectural and county
governments totalling US$15.9 million equivalent; and
(b) contributions from the project seed centers totalling US$30.9
million.
The financing plan is shown in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
CUS$ million)
Estimated
IDA
Category of                      Local                                financing
expenditure                     Sources          IDA       Total     (Z of total)
Buildings                          22.7           -        22.7              0
Seed farm development              17.3           -        17.3              0
Proces;.ng and laboratcry
equipment                         2.6         21.5      24.1             90
Farm equipment and materials         2.8        15.2       18.0             85
Overseas and local training          0.1         0.8        0.9             90
Technical assistance                  -          0.5        0.5            100
Unallocated                          1.3         2.0        3.3             60
Total                         46.8         40.0      86.8             46
Procurement
3.17      Procurement arrangem.mts are summarized in Table 3.4 below.  Seed
processing and laboratory equipment with an estimated cost of US520.9 million
and farm equipment and materials estimated at $15.6 million would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guide_ines.  Items of equipment costing not more than $100,000 per
contract and $2.5 million in total would be procured on the basis of three
price quotations under procedures-acceptable co IDA. For equipment procured
through ICB, local manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin or
the prevailing customs duties, whichever is 'Lower. Prior IDA review of



- 22 -
contract awards would exclude smaLl contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated to
cover less than 15% of the value of aLl contracts. Goods with a value of $4.4
million, mainly small equipment items fabricated locally, and civil works
(US$23.6 million) would be financed by the Government and procured locally
through local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Consultants would be
selected under terms of reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines on the use of consultants.
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
Procurement method
ICB       LP /a        Other 7b       Total
Buildings                              -         23.6             -          23.6
(0)                        (0)
Seed farm development                  -         17.8             -          17.8
(0)                        (0)
Processing and laboratory
equipment                          20.9         2.5            2.0         25.4
(20.9)      (0)            (2.0)       (22.9)
Farm equipment and materials         15.6         1.9            0.9         18.4
(15.6)      (0)            (0)         (15.6)
Overseas and local training            -           -             1.0          1.0
(0.9)       (0.9)
Technical assistance                   -           -             0.6          0.6
(0.6)       (0.6)
Total                           36.5       45.8            4.5         86.8
(36.5)      (0)            (3.5)       (40.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
/a   LP stands for "local procedures" which involve the assignment of one or
more civil works contracts to a pre-selected contractor. For goods,
contractors may be factories or suppliers.
lb   "Other" includes (i) procurement of equipment on the basis of evaluation
of bids from at least three suppliers; and (ii) procurement of technical
assistance and training.



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements for equipment, materials and vehicles would be made at
100% of the CIF cost for direct imports and 100% of the ex-factory cost for
locally manufactured items. Disbursements for overseas training and consul-
tant services would be made at 100X of total expenditures. All withdrawal
applications would be fully documented except: (a) for expenditures under
equipment, materials and vehicles concracts whose value is less than $50,000
equivalent; (b) for expenditures for overseas fellowships and study tours; and
(c) for expenditures under consultants' services contracts whose value is less
than $50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications for these expenditures would
be supported by a statement of expenditure certified by the PMO's Project
Coordinator (para. 3.21). Supporting documentation would be retained in the
PMO (in Beijing) and be made available to IDA supervision missions. In order
to provide for efficient disbursement of credit proceeds, a special account
would be opened in US dollars in the Bank of China with an authorized alloca-
tion of US dollar equivalent of SDR 4,200,000 (US$4,000,000). Applications
for replenishment of the special account would be submitted quarterly, or
whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of its initial desposit,
whichever comes first.
3.19      The completion date for the proposed project would be June 30, 1989
and the closing date, December 31, 1989. Bid documents for equipment are
expected to be completed by :arch 1985, making it possible to procure most
items in the first three years of the project.
Accounts and Audits
3.20      Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the PCB
which woulc. be responsible for disbursements to county/state farm construction
companies/teams engaged under the project. These records would be consoli-
dated into a single account by the PCB in Beijing and forwarded annually to
the PMO (para. 3.21). The PMO would keep records of equipment expenditures
and would prepare an annual account of equipment and civil works expendi-
tures. An assurance was obtained from the Government that the accounts would
be audited annually by the State Audit Agency and that the audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year.
Project Management and Implementation
3.21      Organization for Implementation.  The MAAF would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. Within the MAAF, a PMO, made up of
staff from the NSC, the BSF, and the North China Plain (NCP) Project Office
has been established to coordinate project execution in the 14 provinces/
autonomous regions involved in the project (Figure 5). Costs of estabLishing
and maintaining the PMO would be jointly shared by the 18 project centers:
specifically, the centers would be charged a management fee of 0.3% of the
total loan to cover the operating costs and costs of study tours and short
term training for PMO staff. A Project Coordinator and three Deputy
Coordinators, one each from NSC, NCP, and BSF, have been designated to head
the PMO staff. This staff consists of about ten professionals representing



- 24 -
different disciplines and crop specialties. The PMO would also draw upon
experts from provincial seed enterprises for temporary assignments. Overall,
it would be responsible for coordinating project work with all central agen-
cies involved; acting as chief liaison with IDA; maintaining project accounts
and submitting disbursement applications to IDA; monitoring civil works design
and construction; administering local and overseas training programs; and
supervising all aspects of the equipment procurement process. It would also
be responsible for preparing annual reports on project progress and a project
completion report for IDA review. In equipment procurement, the PMO would
review equipment lists and prepare technical specifications. The China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would be primarily responsible
for bid invitation, evaluation, and award of contracts in consultation with
the PMO.
3.22      An advisory group has been appointed to assist the MAAF PMO in
carrying out its functions. The advisory group comprises six to eight experts
representing various seed specialties drawn from NSC, BSF, agricultural
research centers and colleges. Meeting at Least once every six months, this
group would advise the PMO on equipment procurement and installation,
selection of overseas consultants, and implementation of the local and
overseas training programs.
3.23      At the provincial level, 15 provincial project management offices
have been established as separate officel within provincial seed companies,
provincial state farms bureaus or AITCs.'  Each provincial PMO is headed by a
senior provincial official as Project Manager and includes as members
officials from various provincial technical bureaus. Provincial PMOs would be
responsible for coordinating and supervising project implementation in the
participating counties, subbureaus and state farms, reviewing technical
standards for design, construction, operation and maintenance of project
works, ensuring prompt delivery of project inputs, and reporting progress to
the central government. Fifteen advisory groups with functions similar to
those of the MAAF PMO's advisory group have been appointed to assist the
provincial PMOs.
3.24      At the seed center level, a designated representative of the
participating units - county seed companies, provincial and county stock seed
farms, state farms - has established a management office to handle the day-to-
day activities of project execution. Each of the seed center PMOs consists of
a general administrative office and four sections: engineering and construc-
tion, research and training, finance and materials supply, and monitoring and
evaluation. These PMOs would be responsible for preparing work schedules and
supervising local units involved in the project such as county construction
companies and state farms construction bureaus. In the case of the NSC
centers, county construction companies would build structures, but the county
would delegate responsibility for other project works - irrigation canals,
bridges, roads - to the townships with supervision by county engineers. For
2/   In Jiangsu, there would be two PMOs, one at Nanjing and one in the north
at Huaiyin.



- 25 -
the BSF centers, state farm construction teams would construct project build-
ings, irrigation and drainage works, utilities, bridges and roads using
designs and standards developed by the technical and engineering divisions of
the PBSFs. Seed center PMOs would also prepare annual budgets for the proj-
ect, maintain project accounts, monitor the operation and maintenance of
irrigation and drainage systems built under the project, organize training for
collective and state farm personnel, and monitor and report project progress
to the provincial PMOs. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that
the MAAF PMO and provincial PMOs, with their attached advisory groups, and
other local PMOs would be maintained and adequately staffed with qualified
personnel during the life of the proposed project.
3.25      Project Execution.  The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be
used almost entirely for procurement of equipment and materials for the 18
project seed centers. The costs of these items as well as of the proposed
overseas craining and consulting services would be debited to the 18 centers.
Under current Government procedures, the centers would repay these costs at an
annual interest rate of 3% over 20 years with a five year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
3.26      Local (provincial, prefectural and county) contributions to the
project would be channeled through appropriate local branches of the Agricul-
tural Bank of China (ABC) in the case of locally-procured equipment, and
through branches of the People's Construction Bank (ICB) for civil works. For
each province at the beginning of each year, the NSC and BSF would obtain
letters of guarantee from the provincial governments (or provincial planning
commissions) that the requisite funds for the project have been included in
that year's financial plan; the provincial governments would obtain similar
guarantees from the prefectures, counties, sub-bureaus and state farms respon-
sible for contributions to the project. These funds would be deposited on an
annual basis into project accounts at the ABC and PCB for use by the project
center solely for carrying out the project. Arrangements regarding implemen-
tation of the project, including budget and staffing, by the 14 provinces
included in the project would be described in project implementation agree-
ments between MAAF and the aforementioned provinces. The execution of such
agreements would be a condition for effectiveness.
IV.  MARKETS, PRICES AND BENEFITS
Market Prospects
4.01      The introduction and subsequent widespread adoption of hybrid and
improved crop varieties in China over the last two decades has meant a
dramatic shift in patterns of seed supply. From basic seed self-sufficiency -
use of seed saved from the previous season's crop - farmers have moved to
increased reliance on off-farm sources of supply. The key factor in this
shift is the accelerated rate of varietal replacement or renewal which
accompanies use of high yielding and pest and disease resistant varieties. In
the case of hybrids,-which must be replaced at each planting, farmers are
totally dependent on purchased seed. In the case of non-hybrid improved
varieties, while farmers have the option of saving their own seed, the rapid



- 26 -
loss of varietal purity characteristic of this retained seed still makes it
imperative to purchase new seed every three to five years to reap the advan-
tage of higher yields. In 1983, NSC and BSF seed companies supplied about 401
(5.3 million tons) of total annual seed requirements for major crops covered
under the project (13 million tons) with 60X met by farmer-retained seed
(Table 4.1). As a percentage of their total seed requirements, Chinese
farmers purchase about four times as much seed from off-farm sources as do
farmers in India (10%) and six times as much as Indonesian farmers (7M).
4.02      Though the quantity of seed for sale is relatively high, because of
processing deficiencies and inadequacy of quality assurance, the quality -
varietal and physical purity, germination and vigor - of this seed is below
what is required to achieve optimum yields. The project would improve the
quality of seed available in project areas through modernization of seed
technology and operations. At full development, the 18 project centers would
be responsible for producing about 200,000 tons of fully processed stock and
certified seed annually, roughly double present production. In addition,
annual production of scions and budded seedlings would be increased by about
three million.
4.03      It is expected that the domestic market would easily absorb project
output. First, as the sole local seed suppLiers, the project centers would
have an assured market for their hybrid seeds (hybrid rice, corn, sugar beet
and vegetables). Second, project improved nonhybrid variety seeds would be in
demand because of their superior quality which would decrease production costs
and increase output and returns. The market would be particularly favorable
for certain disease-resistant and virus-free varieties which are presently in
short supply - e.g., Nei Monggol seed potato and Liaoning fruit cree planting
materials. Third, many of the seed centers already do business with regular
customers on the basis of advance purchase contracts; these assured markets
would be expected to be maintained and to expand with the current trend toward
increasing interprovincial trade.
Prices
4.04      Provincial authorities set seed prices in compliance with national
price regulations established by the State Price Bureau and the provincial
price commissions. Seed prices range between 15 to 25% above the commodity
price in the case of conventional varieties and may exceed the commodity price
by up to 50% or more in the case of hybrid seeds. (The commodity price
reflects the total costs of production plus 10-15%.) This pricing system thus
allows the seed companies to sell their output at a reasonable margin over
their costs.
4.05      The base retail prices set by the provincial seed companies refer to
bulk, untreated seed only. The cost of treatment chemicals, bagging, storage
and transport are handled separately with the additional expenses borne by the
buyer. For example, most seed companies bag their seed prior to sale and
charge the buyer an additional Y 2.3 per 75 kg jute bag. Similarly, most
companies pass seed storage costs on to the buyer. In Xinjiang an additional
3% is added to the price of wheat and corn seed which has been stored over the
winter months. In some cases, buyers may choose to cut costs by buying bulk



Table 4,1: CURRENT AND FUTURE NATIONAL SEED PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION (SELECTED SEEDS)
Supplied to farmers /a    Saved by farmers
Area      Seeding      Total       NSC        BSF    % of                  % of
Crop                            planted    rate        seed use                        total   mln tons   total
(mln ha)  (kg/ha)   (min tons)  -- (min tons) --
Current (1983)
Rice                            33.2      187.5        6.23       2.18      0.31       40       3.74        60
(of which:  hybrid)           6.7       22.5         0.15       0.15      0.00      100       0.00         0
Wheat                           28.0      187.5        5.25       1.58      0.03       30       3.65        70
Corn /b                         18.7       45.0        0.84       0.59      0.07       79       0.19        22
Cotton                           5.7      112.5        0.64       0.45      0.10       86       0.09        14
Sugar beet                       0.4       60.0        0.03       0.02      0.01      100       0.00         0
Subtotal                    86.0                   12.98       4.81      0.52       41       7.66        59
Future (1989)
Rice                            34.0      1l5O.O       5.10       2.55      0.50       60       2.05        40
(of which:  hybrid)           10.0      22.5         0.23       0.22      0.01      100       0.00         0
Wheat                           30.0      150.0        4.50       1.80      0.04       41       2.66        59
Corn                            20.0       40.0        0.80       0.64      0.08       90       0.08        10
Cotton                           5.5       75.0        0.41       0.30      0.10       97       0.01         3
Sugar beet                       0.5       60.0        0.03       0.02      0.02      100       0.00         0
Subtotal                    90.0                   10.84       5.31      0.74       56       4.80        44
/a  Of total national seed utilization in 1983 of approximately 17 million tons (all seeds), about
600,000 tons (4%) were mechanically processed, and less than 50,000 tons (less than 1%) were
processed with modern equipment.
/b About 70% (13 million ha) of corn area was planted with hybrids.
Source: Data provided to the Appraisal Mission by NSC.



-28 -
seed at the seed company facilities and then making their own arrangements for
transport, chemical treatment and storage of the seed until planting time.
4.06      Seed production costs and retail prices for several of the major
crops to be covered under the project are summarized in Table 4.2. At pre-
sent, retail prices for these crops adequately cover producer costs - i.e.,
retail prices for bulk, untreated seed exceed production costs by at least 15
to 20%. Modern seed processing, however, wouLd increase the cost per kg of
cLean seed because of higher operating costs and the screening out of poor
quality seed (10-25Z of the total) during processing. Typical variable costs
for modern seed processing are presented in Annex 5.  The Government has
assured the seed centers that retail prices for their fully processed seed
would be set at least 20 to 30% above full production costs.  For example, the
Jilin Seed Center plans to increase the per kg retail price for hybrid corn
seed from Y 0.61 to Y 0.72, or about 20% above hybrid seed production costs.
The project would finance a study of seed prices in China (para. 3.12) which
would examine in detail the price structure for modern processed seed. Given
the scarcity of high quality seed in China and the expected yield benefits,
the moderate increase in retail prices which might be required for some seeds
would not be expected to encounter market resistance. This is especially true
since the increases in price would be more than compensated for by reduced
production costs and increased yields.
Production Benefits
4.07      The 18 project seed centers currently produce about 6,700 tons of
stock seed and 105,000 tons of certified seed of varying - generally low -
quality. By 1990 the centers would increase their annual seed output to about
23,000 tons of stock and 184,000 tons of certified seed, all of it produced
usivg modern processing methods and rigorous certification procedures. The
project would also produce an additional three million scions and budded seed-
lings of improved fruit tree varieties annually. The increased seed produc-
tion achieved under the project would be sufficient to plant about 900,000 ha
of rice, 1,075,000 ha of wheat, corn, and soybean, over 800,000 ha of cotton
and other cash crops, and over 20,000 ha of vegetables. The resulting annual
incremental crop production would include about 110,000 tons of rice,
160,000 tons of corn and wheat, and over 60,000 tons of cotton. In addition,
the project would produce enough seed potatoes and sugarcane sets to plant
about 77,000 ha. A comparison of current and future production is given in
Table 4.3.
4.08      Major benefits to the farmer resulting from the higher quality seed
produced under the project are:
(a)  decreased costs of production - or increased production efficiency -
associated with the use of higher quality seed. As a conservative
estimate, high quality seed would reduce costs of production at the
farmer-user level by 5%.
(b) value enhancement of product associated with a change in variety,
e.g., fine apple varieties, better and more uniform fiber quality in
cotton, and higher sucrose content in sugar beet and sugarcane.



Table 4.2: SEED PRODUCTION COSTS AND RETAIL PRICES
(Yuan/kg)
llybrid rice        Mieat           J_ybrid Corn    Soybean           Sugar beet              Cotton
Seed/Province                     Jiangxi    Jiangsu  Xinjlang  Jilin   Xinjiang  Jiangsu   Jiangsu  Xinjiang   Jiangsu  Xinjiang
Fnrmgate crop price /a              0.23       0.34      0.34       0.21        0.22      0.70                             0.22      0.26
Seed production cost /a             2.50       0.25      0.37        0.44       0.64      0.39       0.44    0.95          0.22      0.26
Cost per kg clean seed /b            2.78      0.28      0.41        0,52       0.75      0.43       0.49     1.06         0.29      0.35
Less:  byproduct vnlue 7W7         -0.01      -0.03    -0.03        -0.03      -0,03    -0.04       -0.02   -0.02         -0.05    -0.06
Processing cost /d                  0.09       0.09      0.09       0.09        0.09      0.06       0.26    0.26          0.37      0.37
Depreciation and maintenance        0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03        0.03      0.02       0.02    0.02          0.06      0.06
Total Producer Cost /e         2.88       0.36      0.49       0.61       0.84      0.48       0.75    1.32          0.68      0.72
Retail Price
Bulk, untreated If                3.00       0.50      0.45       0.52        1.16     0.90                              0.27
Processed a&                                                      0.62                             1.90    3.00                0.8-1.0
/a  Figure for cottonseed is the market price of industrial cottonseed.
7TW  Percentage of seed separated out during processing Is estimated at 10  for rice, wheat, soybean and sugar beet, 15X for
corn, and 25% for cotton.
/c  Value of screenings estimated as 902 of crop price.
7W-  Financial processing costs from Annex 5.
7Te Estimated producer cost of production for processed, treated and bagged seed.
71i  Actual retail price for bulk, untreated seed; i.e., excludes costs of treatment chemicals, bagging, storage and transport.
g  Actual retail price for processed, treated and bagged corn, sugar beet and delinted cotton seed.



- 30 -
Table 4.3; CURRENT AND FUTURE PROJECT SEED OUTPUT
(tons)
Current                               Future
Seed             Stock /a  Certified      Area      Stock /a Certified      Area
(tons)      (tons)    (000 ha)   (tons)       (tons)    (000 ha)
Rice /b                 825        12,151         405     2,307      26,721         891
Other grains /c       5,349        27,430         343    15,009      85,963       1,075
Cotton                  541        64,248         714     5,497      65,795         731
Sugar beet                6           939          16         9       4,050          68
Vegetable                 6            31           -        156      1,012          15
Subtotal            6,727       104,799      1,477    22,978    183,541         2,779
Potato                   75           750           1     1,350    101,250           72
Sugarcane                           7,960           1                41,000           5
Fruit trees
-  '000 scion                       200           -                 7,009           1
-  '000 seedlings                   500           1                 3,000           9
Total                                         1,480                             2,866
/a   Stock seed production would be sufficient to produce more than the quantities
certified seed presented in the table.  Only the quantities of certified seed
be processed by the 18 seed centers are shown in this table.
/b   Including both hybrid and nonhybrid rice.
/c   Including wheat, corn, and soybean.



- 31 -
(c) increased production arising from improved yields (output/unit area)
primarily attributable to improvements in the genetic, physical and
physiological qualities of the seed planted. Expected yield
increases are greater for hybrid seeds, in general, than for non-
hybrid seeds. Experimental evidence indicates that improvements in
seed quality, with no change in the application of fertilizer,
water, etc., can increase yields by as much as 10 to 15% for cotton
and sugar beet; 6 to 8% for corn; 5 to 8% for soybean; 4 to 62 for
wheat; and 2 to 3% for rice (Annex 4). The project would also
result in some production increases due to replacement of varieties
with hybrids (e.g., corn) or other superior varieties; improved
yields resulting from improvements in the vigor of the propagule
(e.g., virus-free potato tubers, disease-free apple scions); and
expansion in the area planted as a result of more adequate seed
supplies (e.g. vegetables).
Demonstration Effects and Other Benefits
4.09      The principal long-term benefit resulting from the transfer of seed
technology and expertise under the project would be rapid modernization of
China's seed industry. The 18 project centers would serve as trial and
evaluation units in designing plans for construction over the next two decades
of over 300 additional seed production, processing and distribution centers
throughout the country. By including a broad range of major food and cash
crops, the project would promote diversification of the seed industry at the
same time as encouraging expanded production of certain crops - e.g., vegeta-
bles and fruits - expected to be in increased demand as incomes rise. In
addition to their long-term catalytic effect, the project renters would be
expected to have a positive impact in the near term on seed companies/farms
which are not part of the project: first, by providing examples of improved
farming practices and seed processing techniques and, second, by supplying
these companies with high quality stock seed which will result in improvements
in their certified seed output. The major benefit to the seed industry from
project assistance to strengthen NSC operations would be establishment of uni-
form national standards for seed quality assurance and control, an essential
first step in the planned expansion of interprovincial seed marketing and
distribution. The project would also contribute to raising the level of
training in seed science and technology by introducing a model seed curriculum
at four agricultural colleges that might be extended to other institutions.
Social benefits from the project include increased production and incomes for
some 3.7 million farm families. There would also be an increase in seasonal
employment required to harvest the incremental production of crops resulting
from use of project seed.
Financial Analysis
4.10      The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project as a whoLe would
be about 12Z, with FRRs ranging between 8 to 17% for individual seed centers.
Seed centers supplying hybrid seed would have somewhat higher FRRs than seed
centers supplying conventional seed. Because China's seed enterprises are as
much service- as profit-oriented (para. 2.15), these relatively modest FRRs
are considered to be acceptable. A cash flow analysis for several of the seed



- 32 -
centers was perfo.rmed using the assumption that retail prices would exceed
total costs of production by 102. Results indicate that the seed centers
would have no difficulty repaying project funds within 20 years, including a
five-year grace period.
Economic Analysis
4.11      All economic values were converted to local currency at the official
exchange rate of Y 2.8 = US$1.00. Economic costs include project investment
costs plus physical contingencies, maintenance of project civil works and
equipment, and replacement of processing equipment and vehicles beginning in
year seven. Incremental costs of seed production have been estimated as 15%
of labor costs (to cover supervision and roguing of off-types) and 5% of
nonlabor costs. The economic cost of unskilled labor is considered to be
Y 2/workday and of skilled labor Y 4/workday. The Y2/workday for unskilled
labor probably overstates the opportunity cost of labor in China. However,
the economic analysis is not sensitive to use of a Lower shadow price for
labor. Estimated seed processing costs cover electricity and ocher utilities,
coal (for dryers), bags, permanent and seasonal labor, treatment chemicals and
miscellaneous expenses. Marketing costs have been estimated as the transport
expense of delivering project seed. Major outputs, traded inputs, and labor
have been valued at projected economic prices (an average of 1983 and 1995
economic prices in 1983 constant yuan).
4.12      Using these assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over
30 years, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole would
be about 38Z. At a discount rate of 12Z; which is considered to approximate
the opportunity cost of capital in China, the net present value (NPV) of the
project would be Y 686 million. The economic rates of return for the dif-
ferent seed components of the project are presented in Table 4.4. Economic
prices for traded goods and economic costs and benefits are summarized in
Annex 5. The ERRs vary considerably among these seed components, but are
satisfactory in each case. The highest ERRs are for the production of seeds
with relatively large expected incremental yield, viz., food grain (except
rice) and cotton. The ERR for rice seed production is somewhat lower.
Sensitivity of the ERR was tested to a 20% investment cost overrun, 20% and
50% increases in operating costs, and a 50% decrease in expected benefits. No
single variant proved critical to the economic viability of the project or any
of the project's components. A 50% reduction of benefits would reduce the
project's overall ERR to 17%.



- 33 -
Table 4.4: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Investment     Operating
Base      Cost /a      Cost        Cost       Benefits
case         +20      4+20%        +50Z         -50%
Rice
Hybrid                  36           32         34          31          15
Conventional            19           17         18          17          10/b
Foodgrain                 42           38         39          35           16
Cotton                    49           44         47          44          25
Fruit tree                25           23         24          24          21
Weighted average /c       38           34         36          33           17
/a   Investment cost excluding training and technical assistance.
7i   The economic rate of return falls below 10% after a 35% reduction in
benefits.
'c   Average rate of return weighted according to share of total project
investment. Hybrid rice at 20%, conventional rice at 9%, food grains at
402, cotton at 18%, and fruit at 13Z.
Risks
4.13      The proposed project faces no significant technical risks since it
involves proven seed processing technology that has been in regular operation
in other parts of the world. To ensure effective transfer of this technology
to China, the project would provide a program of technical assistance in plant
design and equipment procurement as well as training for equipment operators
to supplement that customarily provided by equipment suppliers. Given the
fact that a sound organizational structure for seed operations is already in
place, no significant problems are expected in project implementation. The
seed companies are functioning effectively in terms of seed multiplication and
are becoming increasingly profitable commercial operations. The project
centers are adequately staffed with technicians and managers recruited from
affiliated companies and seed farms. Personnel have also been appointed to
the central and local PMOs. A possi3le project uncertainty relates to the
capability of the NSC, as a relati-ely new agency, to handle the task of
coordinating project activities. This uncertainty would be minimized by the
fact that the central PMO includes not only NSC staff but also representatives
from the NCP Project Office and the BSF, both of which have had previous
experience in impiementing Bank Group projects.
Environmental Effects
4.14      Project activities would be environmentally neutral.  Mechanized
seed drying and processing produce dust but not more than traditional winnow-
ing, and dust control systems would be provided. Seed treatment materials
used would be relatively noncoxic, used in small quantities, and colored with



- 34 -
intense dyes to ensure that the treated seed are not used for purposes other
than planting. Use of the seed as a delivery system for systemic insecticides
and fungicides would reduce the quantity of pesticides by ten fold or greater
as compared to application to the growing crop. The acid delinting technology
provided would be the type specially developed in the U.S. to reduce the
environmental hazard to acceptable levels.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on the
following points:
(a) training of staff of project centers and implementing agencies would
be carried out in accordance with the program agreed to between IDA
and MAAF (para. 3.10);
(b) a report presenting the main findings of the studies of seed supply
and demand, marketing and prices, and quality assurance and control
would be prepared by the MAAF PMO for IDA review not later than
December 31, 1987 (para. 3.12);
Cc) the project accounts would be audited annually by the State Audit
Agency and would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of each financial year (para. 3.20); and
Cd) the MAAF PMO and provinciaL PMOs, with their attached acivisory
groups, and other local PMOs would be maintained and adequately
staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the proposed
project (para. 3.24).
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
Ca) State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreemeait; and
(b) conclusion of project implementation agreements with terms and
condi.tions satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.26).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 41.7 million (US$40 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the People's
Republic of China.



-35                      ANNEX 1
CHINA                      Table 1
SEEDS PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Cost
Y million       US$ million
BUILDINGS
Processing and storage                             33.7                12.0
Laboratory and office buildings                     8.3                3.0
Staff housing                                       14.2               5.0
Subtotal                                      56.2               20.0
SEED FARM DEVELOPMENT
Land leveling and improvement                       18.1               6.5
Irrigation and drainage                            21.2                7.5
Roads                                               3.3                 1.2
Subtotal                                      42.6               15.2
JUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
ieed processing equipment                          51.3               18.3
Laboratory and office equipment                     7.1                2.6
Farm implements and machinery                       12.7               4.5
Vehicles                                            11.0                .9
Agrochemicals and materials                        20.3                7.3
Subtotal                                     102.4               36.6
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Overseas                                            2.3                  .8
Local                                                .3                 .1
Technical Assistance                                 1.3                 .5
Subtotal                                       3.9                1.4
BASE COST                                        205.1               73.2
Physical Contingency                               13.2                4.7
Expected Price increase                             6.3                8.9
IOTAL PROJECT COST                                 226.6               86.8



- 36 -                         ANNEX 1
CHINA                         Table 2
SEEDS PROJECT
Schedule o-f Expenditures
(USS million)
Project Year
1      2      3      4     Total
BUILD INGS
Processing and storage                 6.0    3.6    2.4      .0     12.
Laboratory and office buildings        1.2    1.5      .3     .0      3.
Staff housing                          2.0    2.0    1.0      .0      5.
Subtotal                          9.2    7.1    3.7      .0    20.1
SEED FARM DEVELOPMENT
Land leveling and improvement          2.6    2.6    1.3      .0      6.-
Irrigation and drainage                3.0    3.0    1.5      .0      7.-
Roads                                    .5    .3      .3     .0      1.-
Subtotal                          6.1    6.0    3.2      .0    15.
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Seed processing equipment              7.3    9.2    1.8      .0     Is.
Laboratory and office equipment        1.3      .8     .3     .3      2.
Farm implements and machinery          2.3    2.3      .0     .0      4.-
Vehicles                               2.0    1.2      .8     .0      3.
Agrochemicals and materials            2.9    2.2    1.4      .7      7.
Subtotal                         15.7   15.5    4.3    1.0    36.
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Overseas                                .3      .2     .2    .1
Local                                   .03    .04    .02    .02
Technical Assistance                    .2      .2    .1    .1
Subtotal                           .5     .4    .3       .2      1.
BASE COST                            31.6   29.1   11.5    1.2    73.
Physical Contingency                   2.0    2.0      .7    .1       4.
Expected Price increase                 1.4    4.2    2.9     .4      8.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     35.0   35.2   15.0    1.6    86.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
CHINA                        Table 3
SEEDS PROJECT
Expected Price Increases\a/
Project Year
1      2      3      4     Total
Expected Price Increases - US$ million
Base cost                            31.6   29.1   11.5    1.2      73.2
Physical contingencies                2.0    2.0      .7     .1      4.7
Annual Escalation Rate (7.)
-International                      8.5    9.0    9.0   8.25
Multiplier                           .043   .134   .236   .342
Expected price increases              1.4    4.2    2.9      .4      8.9
Total                                35.0   35.2   15.0    1.6      86.8
Expected Price Increases - Y million
Base cost                            88.4   81.4   32.1    3.2    205.1
Physical contingencies                5..6    5.5    1.9     .1     13.2
Annual Escalation Rate ({.)
-Domestic                           3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Multiplier                           .015   .045   .077   .109
Expected price increases              1.4    4.0    2.6      .4      8.3
Total                                95.4   90.9   36.6    3.7    226.6
\a/ For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that
exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain
"purchasing power parity" during the project implementation period.



-38 -                    ANNEX 1
Table 4
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule\a/
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal year               Cumulative
and semester                disbursements                 %
1986
1st                                .8                     2
2nd                               6.0                    15
1987
Ist                              14.C)                   35
2nd                              22.0                    55
1988
1st                              30.0                    75
2nd                              36.0                    90
1969
1st                              38.0                    95
2nd                              40.0                   100
\a/ No IDA disbursement profile has been developed for seeds
projects.
Proposed closing date: December 1989.



SEEDS PROJECT
Cest Sueuary by Institution
(US$1 '0009
Sichma      Hunan  Jiaogsi   Fuji an       Henmn    JilIin                       Shandong    Anhut                iian,uo           linjiang linjiiag hVangdang   Yunnmn  JIiSng
SEED CENTER                                  Hybrid   Nytrid   Hyrid   Hybrid  Brain 1I  Hybrid Nhi Kong  Jiangsu  Grain I  grain &                   Cano    Fruit lanjiang    Sugar          Food      Sugar  Sugar I   &rin.,
...........                       R~~~~firt  Rice      Rice       Nice   ralttan      Corn   Potato   Cotton   Cottoni   Cotton           Rice      Tree   Cotton       fleet   kalins        Cane     oralift   Ilit       Total
lUlILDINGS
Processing and Sterage%aI                      967     9,103       357        221     1,29?       912       631        552       955       549      1,3b1        2?       697        423       755          0       305       530   12,03?
Laboratory and office buildings                386       271       213         13       256        go         74        71        97        919         0       ISO       326        151       995        476        44        36    2,970
Staff homsing                                  337       315       258         74       464         0       2291        6         70        63        990         0       653         96       177      9,721       199          0    5,051
Subtotal                               1,69      9,69         326       306     2,092    1,001       1,126       689     1,122       731    1.411         290    2,047        670    1,127        2,207       546        567   20,060
SEED CENTER DEVELOPHENT
Land leveling and iuproneoent                  939         0       456        147       993         0        i37       206         3         0        464    9,486      9,006          0    9.090         953        74       191e    6,470
Irrigation and drainageob                     269         74       246       245        201       935       339       918         66         6       646       938    2,60          39  19,163           625         Ne       151     7,597
Raids                                            0         0         26       It0        26        71          0        34         0        so         37        49       302        35         55        221        95       147    9,965
Subtotal                                 408        74        729       502       499       212        468       427        90        36      1,344     2,473    2,913        433    2,226        9,79"       177       496   95,23?
E9U9P9INt AND5 rATERIII.S
Seed processing equipment                   2,473        390       469        430     9,049     9,239         75    9,696        369       386     9,390    9,934       2,967       495    2,000            0       606     1,113   96,333
Laboratory ond office equipment                 20        30        50         70       995        so       440         45       900        50         70       37 I1     449        97       324          75       100        at    2,544
Farm impleteets and machinery                   26        48         90         0       374        28       176         90         5        29        66        323       548       267       750         909       567       352    4,533
Vehicles                                       399       302       779        233       305       237       275        271       999       901       ISO        200       990        57       953         242       947       162    3,993
Agrocheeicals and materials                    190       466       190        905       859       137       990         95       429       339        729    9,326        II9        39        152        93.9      147       727    7,236
Subtotal                              3,909      9,257       991        637    2,700      1,68      9,957    2,997       9,064       904    2,434    3,343        4,344       944     3,379       2,965    9,56       2,504   36,569
TRAINING AND IECIfICAL. ASSISTANCE
Overseas                                        42        60         48        36        46        21         24        33        29        29        33         46        45        30        64          72        24       II7       607
Local                                            7         7          7         7         7         7          3         7         4         3          7         3         8         7          7          4         61        6       96y
Technical Assistance                            35        35        35         34        261       26         t6        34        96I       99        36        21         25        24        25          96        29        36       460
Subtotal                                  64       902         90        71        el        54         45        74        43        43         74        72        78        I1        996         92        59       957    9,394
BASE COST                                  5,212      3,122    2,635      9,724    5,212    2,950    2,796    3,309          2,339      9,7195    5,344     6,900    9,422    2,907    6,950          6,243    2,343    3,723   73,246
%di  Includes Ancillary buildings antd facilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                  (p
9W   Includes wells, pumping stations, and bridges.                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJi



- 40                                            ANNEX 1
Table 6
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Buildings
Ancillary
Processing          Storage         Laboratory &         Staff         Buildings &
Plant\a/        Facilities\b/         Office           Housing       Facilities\c/
~ ----------------                                                   Total
Cost              Cost               Cost              Cost            Cost     Cost
Sq u  USS'000OOO                     Sq a  USS'O00     Sq a  USS'000 USSS000  USS'000
Sichuan Hybrid Rice           1,800      167   14,500      800    7,000       306    5,200       337             --    1,690
Hunan Hybrid Rice            11,600      640    6,000       331    5,900      271    7,140       315            132    1,689
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice           1,500      110    3,000      246    5,800       213    7,000       258             --       928
Fujian Hybrid Rice            1,000       92    1,600       129      18O       13    1,000        74             --       308
Henan Grain & Cotton          4,310      237    9,715      459    4,940       256   13,000       464            596    2,012
Jilin Hybird Corn             8,500      596    2,500       239    1,200       88        --       --             77    1,001
Nei Hong Potato               4,000      368    3,500       184    1,000       74    3,000       221            280    1,126
Jiangsu Cotton                2,000      110    7,800       435      900       71    1,200        66              7       699
Shandong Brain & Cotton       2,000      109    3,225       237    1,391       97    1,300        70            610    1,122
Anhui Grain & Cotton            820       32    5,150       227    2,000       99    1,800        83            290       731
Dawa Rice                    17,000    1,251       --        --       -        --    2,142       110            110    1,471
Oiansuo Fruit Tree               --       -       400        29    2,600      180        --       --             -        210
Xinjiang Cotton               9,700      452    8,700      444    4,300       316   11,600       853             --    2,067
Xinjiang Sugar Beet           2,350      167    4,00v       162    2,050      151    1,300        96             94       669
Xinjiang Wheat & Corn        10,519      399    3,710      341    2,650       195    2,400       177             15    1,127
Guangdong Sugarcane              --       --       --        -     6,500      478   47,000    1,729              --    2,207
Yunnan Sugar & Brain         2,300       129    3,200       177    1,000       44    5,400       199             --       548
Jiangsu Grain & Beet          1,962      132    6,066       370      570       36        --       --             28       567
Total                  81,361    4,992   03,066    4,812   50,001    2,970  110,482    5,050             2,236   20,060
average unit cost Mmla)                 61                 58                59                 46
XaI Includes rc-ceiving and temporary holding areas, drying sheds, pads and bins, processing halls, repair
and control rooms, and storeroous for naterials, chemicals and spare parts.
Xb/ Includes warehouses for flat storage and bulk storage buildings and bins.
I/ Includes paved areas for drying and parking, water towers, fencing, etc.



- 41 -                                            ANNX 1
Table 7
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Farm Development
Mells &
Land leveling      Irrigation &                              Pumping
& improvement   drainage canals         Rural Roads          Stations               Bridges
--- ---------   ----- ---------         -------------    ------ --                 ---------        Ttal
Cost               Cost                Cost               Cost                   east     Cost
Ha  USSVOOO        KM  USVOOO         Ka  USS'OOO         No  USV'OOO             N  USS'OOO  USS'OOO
-i Hybrid Rice            1,300       139       109       269        --       --        --        --          --                 408
'4ybrid Rice                -         --       47        74        --       --        -         --           --       -         74
i Hybrid Rice             949       456        28       143       17        2b         1        63Md/       21        40       728
Hybrid Rice               130      147        60       245        35      110        --        --           --       -        502
3rain & Cotton             063      193        80       118        --       --        35        43          104       65       419
liybird Corn                -        --        20        74        14       77         1        15           20       46       212
Xng Potato                  533      137        92       221        --       --         3       IOXd/         --       -        468
,ia Cotton                  727       206        14        66       12        34         1       63Xd/         16       59       427
'   G6rain & Cotton          40        3         3        44        --       --         6        22            6       20        90
Srain & Cotton              -        --        --        --        11       30        20         8           --       -         38
-ice                     2,694       464       \c/       736        30       37        --        --           30      110    1,346
_  Fruit Treela/          347    1,486         20       313       60        49         2      313(d/         95      313    2,473
._nig CottonlbI            13,121    1,006       300    1,401        105      302         9       204           --        --    2,913
igSugar Beet               --        -          5        11       21        35        14      3B6           --        -        433
- g theat I Corn\bI       5,806    1,010        119       494        25       55        28       670           --       --    2,228
,'ng Sugarcane%a/            630      953       500       184        80      221        50       368          100       74    1,799
Sugar & Grain            267        74        50        74       20        15        --        --          40        15       177
,   Brain & Beet             667      199       100       151        50      147        -         --           --       -        496
Total                   27,974    6,471    1,547    4,616          480    1,139       170    2,264           422      742   15,232
A --:age unit cost                       149              2,509              2,373                                     1
149             2,373                                     1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~757
Costs of top grafting and orchard maintenance are included in land leveling and improvesent.
Lotton, Nheat and corn are grown in 3 and 5 year rotations in Xinjiang. Consequently, the area to be developed at these
centers is greater than the average for the other centers.
Irrigation and drainage canals for 1400 ha of land.
Includes pumping station(s).



-42-                                                    ANNEX 1
Table 8
SEEDS PRWDET
Snd Pracaising EWipemnt
Reciving                                                                  Cotta Sed        Individal   Ancillay
PrKIlaning       hit Storagp                rying      Proceising &         Lialiating     Processuag       Equip-
SystansWal        Systbu\ei           SystmlcJ   Grading LinclU              Systen      Nacbinaslelo    a"t%1
____    _ __________    _-    Total
Cost              Cost               Cost               Colt             Cost             cost         Cast     Cost
N0/TPIH   950o00  NofTos  0oo5    lo/TPN  USS 000 oa/IP   lH  05UC000   WTPN USSOOo    Na  090                 US4'000  055 000
Sichus Hybrid Rice           t/10      226    6/200       323      614       581      613       B71                       -        -          4n      2,473
Moan    rid Rice                                                38(g         e91     I3/1       210       -       --      29       7n          100        1
Jiangpi Hybrid Rice          1110       31    11100        43       1/3       91      1)2       IN        -       -        4      101          199      469
Fujian Hybrid Rice           1/10       31      1150       32    2/1-3       140    211-2       I61       --      --               -            59      43e
amen Grain & Cotton          1/10       31    1lo1        43       113       91      1/3       111       --      --       3      161         715    1,048
Jili. Hybird Car.            1120      S9    11200         54  1/751g)       473      1/5      409        --      -       -        _           210    1,231
ai khi   Potato                -                  --       -        -                                                                          75        n1
Jiangsu Cotton                D2       129        -        -        -         --    2/2-3       20       212     96       -        -          310    1, 69
Sbandml Grain t Cotton         -        -                                                                                 7 -  -  -  -  -  --  -  7  293  3I[  31
Anhui 6rsin & Cotton         I/10       31    1/100        43       113       91      112       108       --      -        3      21           to0      3U
Dana Rice                    3125      263    1/540       194     2/15       310      313      51r        -       -       -        -          10   I39m
gimno Fruit TrN                -        -         -        -        -         -        --        -        -               -        -        1,134    1,134
Zinjian  Cottm                413      261         _       _                  -     4/2-3      903    412-3   1,13      -         -          602    2,967
Iisjiag Sgar Bet             1/l0       3        -         -        -         -       1/2      392        -       --     -         -           65       415
linjiag  lbut & Corn         3/20      129    3/1100      251     3t20       484    3/2-3       94        __      _      -         -          133    2,M00
Goangd.g Sugarcan                   -        -             -        -         --    -            -                -           -          -                °
Ymnan Sugar  grain            2t9       65     2150        43      2V3       193      1/2       2B        --      -                -           37       601
Jiangsu grain &  ant        212-5      109    1/300        65       -         -     3/2-3       452      112     44       -        -           75    1,163
Total                           1,462              1,017             2,524              5,905             2,645              794       4,1   13,3W3
%A/ Raceving elevator with vibrating pit hopper, preclinaer, cnveyors, trash dispoul systm, etc.
\b/ Bulk storage bins with loading and vnloading conveyers, aeation fans and acenwin  for holding sad before and aftar drying.
\cl  Continsus flow drying system  for rice and  hnt; him type drying syste  with shelling combined with continuros flo. drying systn  for crnl
snll box type dryers for vegetable sed; with convwors, sonitwrs, contrals an  other accnsorie.
td/  dasic-sted clam. (all), length grader (rice, what & corn), sidth/thickness gradr (corn & vegetable sad), gravity tablo (all), traater
(all), and weighr 1 packaging systm  fall), with conveyos, dust systea, controls, otbhr acenwrie.
\e/  fare size self-contained basic clenes, cosbination basic clner and length separator, gravity tales, and packaging systen.
\fI  Includes cotton ginnary equipsnt, refrigation and deAidification systemn, pt_r linn, transforurv ad other electricals, dut systen,
bagged sed convoyars, surge bins, and conpres    air syste.
\11 Tons per day.



-43-                                           ANNEX 1
Table 9
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Laboratory and Office Equipment
Seed Sampling       Scientific &    Microcomputers
& Testing         Analytical       & Electronic
Equipment\a/       EquipaentXb/           CopierlcI    Otherld/
-- ----------       -----      - - ----    -             --------        Total
Cost               Cost               Cost         Cost         Cost
No  USS'000            USSVOOO        No  USS'OOO       us$'O00      us)'000
Sichuan Hybrid Rice                 -         --                  --        2        20           --           20
Hunan Hybrid Rice                     1       30                  --        2        20           --           50
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice                   1       30                 --         2        20           --           50
Fujian Hybrid Rice                    1       30                  20        2        20           --           70
Henan Grain & Cotton                 3        75                  40       --        --           --          115
Jilin Hybird Corn                     1       30                  --        2        20           --           50
Nei aong Potato                     --        -                  188        2        20          232          440
Jiangsu Cotton                        1       25                  --        2        20           -            45
Shandong Grain & Cotton              3        75                  25       -         -            --          100
Anhui Grain & Cotton                 2        50                  -                  --                        50
Dawa Rice                             1       25                  35        1        10           -            70
Oiansuo Fruit Tree                  --        --                200         1        10          161          371
Xinjiang Cotton                      4        60                200         1        10          178          448
Xinjiang Sugar Beet                  i        15                 30        -         --           42           87
Xinjiang Wheat & Corn                3        54                 170        1        10           90          324
Guangdong Sugarcane                 -         --                 55         2        20           --           75
Yunnan Sugar & Grain                 2        30                 30         2        20           20          100
Jiangsu Grain & Beet                  1       30                  31        2        20           --           of
Total                          25      559               1,024        26      260          723        2,566
\a/ Sampling devices, dividers, magnifying devices, moisture testers, heated air ovens, incubators,
conductivity meters, balances and other weighing devices, etc.
Xb/  Includes microscopes, various types of spectrophotometers, chemical analysis instruments, fine
balances, and specialized quality testing instruments.
\c/ Total includes a microcomputer and electronic copiers for the central PRO.
\dI  Includes conditioned chambers and equipment rooms, green house equipment, office and training
equipment, and special laboratory furnishings and instruments.



- 44 -ANNEX 1
Table 10
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Fare Implements and Nachinery
Cultiration &                             Dusting &
Tractors    Land Levelling          Irrigation           Spraying    Harvesters &
(12 to 150 hp)       Equipment\a/      Equipment\b/           Equipment    Thresherslc/   Other\d/
_----------- -    --------------       ------------        -----------      ------------    --------     1  :
Cost               Cost               Cost               Cost             Cost        Cost
No  USS'000        No  USI'000        No  USS'OOO        ho  USS'000      No  USI'000    USS'OOO  USI
Sichuan Hybrid Rice             --        --        --       --       --        --       --        --      --        --         29
Hunan Hybrid Rice               --        --         2        14      --        --       --        --       5        19          15
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice              1         2        --       --        I         B       --        --      --        --         --
Fujian Hybrid Rice              --        --        --       --       --        --        --       --      --        --         --
Henan 6rain & Cotton            45       147         a       93       --        --       S6        57       4       76          --
Jilin Hybird Corn               --        --        --       --        2        16       --        --      --       --          12
Nei Mong Potato                  B        e1        12       24       --        --        12       36      12        36          --
Jiangsu Cotton                   1        10        --       --       --        --       --        --      --       --          --
Shandong Grain L Cotton         --        --        --       --       --        --       __                 5         5         __
Anhui Grain & Cotton            --        --        --       --       10        19       -         --       2        10         --
Dama Rice                        2        19        --       10       --        --       --        --      --       --          57
giansuo Fruit Tree              --        --         1        5       --      271         2        34      --       --          13
Xinjiang Cotton                 10       266       48       150        2        25       16       124      --       --          --
Xinjiang Sugar Beet              3        76        14       70        1        14        5        40      4        66          --
Xinjiang Wheat & Corn            7       190       33       160        1        14       11        83      12      304          -
Suangdong Sugarcane             23       452       50        56       40       238       --        --      --       --          89
Yunnan Sugar & Grain            14       290       --       199       --        65       --        24      --       --          --
Jiangsu Grain & Beet            --        --         8      155       --        --       --        --       5      196          --
Total                    114    1,533        176       956      57       716        02      399      49       712         215
la/ Includes plows, discs, harrows, rotary hoes, seeders, planters, bulldozers, scrapers, qraders, front end loaders, laser
levelers, and ditchers.
\b/ Primarily sprinkler irrigation systems.
Wc   Includes small two wheel plot threshers, stationary threshers, ear corn harvesters, potato harvesters, tractor drawn and
self-propelled combine harvesters.
Id/ Includes mobile generator, oil storage tanks and pumps, shop tools and machines, and orchard equipment.



- 45 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 11
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Vehicles
Trucks     Pickup Trucks             Vans and
(5-10 T)      (0.5 - 1.5 T)            BusesLa/   Other\b/
-----------      -------------         -----------   --------          Total
Cost               Cost                Cost        Cost         Cost
No  USS'OOO        No  US$'000         No  USS'000    usSooO        uss'o0o
Sichuan Hybrid Rice                 12      228          9      114         4        57          --          399
Hunan Hybrid Rice                   11       109        32      158         4        36          --          302
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice                  6       57         10       97        11       116          --          271
Fujian Hybrid Rice                  --        --        20      190         3        43          --          233
Henan Grain & Cotton                16       161         a       43        10        74          27          305
Jilin Hybird Corn                   10       127       --        --         8       110          --          237
Nei Hong Potato                     20       190        --       --         4        57          29          275
Jiangsu Cotton                       4       53         5        51        12       114          53          271
Shandong Grain L Cotton             13       125        2        19         5        45          --          189
Anhui Grain & Cotton                 6       63        --        --         5        38          --          101
Dava Rice                            8       152         1       14         1        14          --          180
giansuo Fruit Tree                   7        B0        2        19         6        E8          14          200
Xinjiang Cotton                      a      152             --              2        38          --          190
Xinjiang Sugar Beet                  2       38         _         _         1        19          --           57
linjiang Wheat & Corn                6      115        --        --         2        33          --          153
Guangdong Sugarcane                 1s       189       il        53        --        --          --          242
Yunnan Sugar & grain                 4       76         2        28         3        43          --          147
Jiangsu Grain   B Beet               2       49         3        43         2        28          43          162
Total                        153    1,961        104       830        S3      957         165        3,913
la/ Includes 8-12 seat passenger vans, repair vans, and 20 seat sicrobuses.
%b/ Cars, four wheel drive jeeps, etc.



- 46 -                                            ANEX 1
Table 12
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Haterials
Structural
Steela/    Fertilizers%b/  Pesticides%c/       Seed\d/   Other\e/
……………--------     --------------   ------------        ------    --------       Total
Cost               Cost            Cost        Cost        Cost         Cost
Tons  USS'OOO      Tons  USS'OOO         USS'OOO      USs'OOO    USsooo      USS'OOO
Sichuan Hybrid Rice                --       --    1,300       190              --           --          --         190
Hunan Hybrid Rice                 3B4      146    1,000       196             124           --          -          466
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice                --       --       800      152              --           38          --         190
Fujian Hybrid Rice                145       55        --       --              --           --          50         105
Henan 6rain & Cotton              600      185    2,300       574              99           --          -           s59
Jilin Hybird Corn                 300       48        --       -               --           --          89         137
Nei Nong Potato                    --       --        --       --              --           --         190         190
Jiangsu Cotton                     -        --        --       --              --                       95          95
Shandong Grin I Cotton            220       73    1,500       356              --           --          --         429
Anhui Grain I Cotton-              20        6    1,000       237              95           --          --         338
Daia Rice                         480      182    1,771       356             190           -          --          728
giansuo Fruit Tree                450      252    1,338       356             307           __         402       1,316
Xinjiang Cotton                  600       191        --       -               --                      --          191
Xinjiang Sugar Beet               122       39        --       --              --           --         --           39
Xinjiang Mheat & Corn            476       152       --        --              --           --         --          152
Wuangdong Sugarcane               955      205    3,275       J29              --          404         --          939
Yunnan Sugar & Grain              187       71      222        48              --           28         --          147
Jiangsu Grain & Beet              600      392    1,200       285              61           --         --          727
Total                     5,539    1,988   15,707    3,077              976          470         825       7,236
\a/ Angles, 1-beams, roof trusses, support colums, sheet steel, etc.
\b/ Urea and TSP.
\cJ Including insecticides, fungicides, and herbicides.
\dI Including stock seed for introduced varieties and parental seed for hybrids.
\eI Cement, lumber, glass, and other construction materials.



- 47 -
ANNE I
CHINA                                      Table  13
SEEDS PROJECT
Overseas and Local Training and Study Tours
total     phasing of man-months
total    cost         by project year
man-    (US$   -----------------
Type of Training                                                                        months  '0001        1       2      3       4
Overseas Training la/:
-Rice improvement training (10 persons x 10 man-months) at IRRI and
selected agricultural universities                                                       100     150      -      40      30     30
-theat improvemet training (4 x 10, 2 x 12) at CINRYT and selected
agricultural universities                                                                 64      90      -      20      20     24
-Corn improvement training (3 x 10) at CIhlUT and selected
agricultural universities                                                                 30      45      --     20      10     --
-Cotton breeding and improvement program 14 x 12) at agricultural
institutes and universities in arid (regular and long staple) and humid
areas (e.g., US, Egypt, Australia, France)                                                48f     60      -      24      24     --
-Fruits: la) apple nursery management training (1 x 12) at
universities (e.g., in Japan, UK)                                                      12      15      --     12     --      --
(bJ tropical fruit multiplication and nursery management 11 x 12)
(e.g., Havaii, ASEAN countries)                                                       12       15     --      12     --      --
(c) production of virus-free planting material 12 x 10) (e.g., UK)                       20       30      -      20     --
-Sugar beet improvement and seed technology (4 a 10) in arid-irrigated and
humid regions (e.g., North America, Western Europe)                                       40      60      --     20      20     --
Local Training
-Six hundred man-months of training conducted with the assistance of foreign
consultants ITable 14) in project and seed enterprise management; seed
processing, testing, and certification, and operation of research instruments            600     107    160    200    120    120
Study Tours
-Grain and sugar beet seed processing (18 x 1) (e.g., tours in Europe and
North America)                                                                            18     108      18     --      --     --
-Virus-free seed potato multiplication (4 x 1) (e.g., CIP. Netherlands)                      4       24      4     --      --     --
-Cotton seed production and technology (11 x 1) (e.g., US, India, Brazil]                   11       66     11     --      --     --
-Vegetable seed production and technology (4 x 1) (e.g., Europe, US)                         4      24       4     --      -      --
-Fruit tree nursery operations 16 x 1) (e.g., UIK, Japan, ASEAN countries,
Hawaii, Europe)                                                                            6      36       6     --      --     --
-Disease-free sugarcane multiplication (8 x 1) (India, Havaii)                               8      48       8     -
-Duality assurance and control, seed testing and certification  (6 x 1)
(e.g., Europe, North America, Australia, India)                                           6       36      6      --     --      --
Summary
Overseas Training                                                                        326     465       0    168    104      54
Local Training                                                                           600     107    160    200    120    120
Study Tours                                                                               57     342      57      0       0      0
Total                                                                                983      914    217    368    224    174
\a/ Overseas training consists of 12-month university programs ,;id 10-month programs at international and other institutes.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 14
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(man-months/US$'000)
Project Year
1      2      3      4  Total
-Assistance to NSC staff in seed
processing plant and equipment
design, development of operational
manuals, and training of super-
visors and equipment operators                3/45   2/30   2/30  7/105
-Assistance to NSC in development of
more comprehensive quality assurance
and control systems to include
improvements in seed testing and
certification methodology and pro-
cedures, and overall sanctioning
legislation                            2/30   2/30   2/30          6/90
-Assistance to NSC, BSF, and the
seed centers in technical and
business management of seed
enterprises                            2/30   2/30                 4/60
-Assistance to NSC with development
of degree programs in seed science
and technology at four agricultural
colleges (viz., Shandong, Zhejiang,
Nanjing, and Northwest)                2/30   1/15   1/15   1/15   5/75
-Assistance with studies of seed
supply and demand, marketing and
prices, and quality assurance and
control procedures                     2/30   1/15   1/15   2/30   6/90
-Review of designs of drainage
and irrigation systems                 2/30   2/30                 4/60
subtotal                         10/150 11/165   6/90   5/75 32/480
_ _ _ _ _~~-         - - - - - - -   -   - - - - - - - -   -  _ _ _ _   _ __ _



ANNEX 2
Table 1
~ 49                             i-Psge 1 of 2
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Project Institutions
Provincial project         Processing/
centers                                      management office        production sites
onal Seed Corporation
Sichuan Hybrid Rice and Corn Seed Center        Chengdu, Sichuan    Xinjin, Oionglai, ?ian-
yang, Meihan, Neijiang,
Fulin
Hunan Hybrid Rice and Vegetable Seed Center    Changsha, Hunan       (hybrid rice): Hejiashan,
Jingxian, Rangxian.
Qidong, LinglinR,
Xinhua, Liling
(vegetable): Changsha,
Zhuzhou, Rengyang
T!angxi Hybrid Rice Seed Center                 Nanchang, Jiangxi   Dengjiabu, Shangrao,
Yichun, Ganzhou, Jian,
Fuzhou
Flujian Hybrid Rice Seed Center                 Fuzhou, Fujian       Longhai
Henan Foodgrain and Cotton Seed Center          Zhengzhou, TRenan    Rualyang, Ikinquan,
Ningling, Shangaiu
Jilin Hybrid Corn .Seed Center                  Changchun, Jilin    Gongzhuling
Nei Monggol Seed Potato Center                  Hohhot, Nei Monggol Wulanchabu, Rulunbeir
Jiangsu Cotton Seed Center                      Nanjing, Jiangsu    Xinghua, Dafeng
Shandong Foodgrain and Cotton Seed Center       Jinan, Shandong      Lingxian, Yucheng, fihe
Anhui Foodgrain and Cotton Seed Center          TTefei, Anhui        Guoyang, Suixi



ANNEX 2
Table I
-50-                                  Page 2 of 2
Provincial project          Processing/
Seed centers                                       management office        production sites
Bureau of State Farms
Dawa Rice Seed Center                            Shenyang, Liaoning  Dawa
Oiansuo Fruit Tree Nursery Center                Shenyang, Liaoning  Suizhong
Xinjiang Cotton Seed Center                      Urumqi, Xinjiang    Shihezi, Akesu, Alaer,
Kuitun
Xinjiang Sugar Beet Seed Center                  Urumqi, Xinjiang    Shihezi, Maneisi
Xinjiang Foodgrain Seed Center                   Urumqi, Xinjiang    Shihezi, Shawan, Huocheng
Guangdong Sugarcane, Medicinal Herbs and         Guangzhou,           (sugarcane): Bayi,
Tropical Fruit Center                          Guangdong              Oianyin.
(medicinal herbs):
Nanlin, Zhongjian,
Nanhua
(fruit): Xinzhong, Fubao,
Hongyang, Kuitan
Yunnan Sugarcane and Foodgrain Seed Center       Kunming, Yunnan      Menghai, Miqin
Jiangsu Sugar Beet, Foodgrain and Cotton         Ruaiyin, Jiangsu    Cuanyun, Binhai (cotton)
Seed Center



-51 -                                 ANNEX 2
CHINA                                 Table  2
SEEDS PROJECT
Educational Background of Seed Center Staff \aI
Present (1984)                        Planned (1998)
Technical                              Technical
University      Schoal                University       School
Graduates  Graduates        Total     Graduates  Graduates         Total
Sichuan Hybrid- Rice-7                           10_         17--            10         15          25 -- - -----
Sichuan Hybrid Rice                    7         iO           17             lO         is          25
Hunan Hybrid Rice                      7          12          19             to          15         25
Jiangxi Hybrid Rice                    6         10          16               8         1           20
Fujian Hybrid Rice                     4           5           9             12          a          20
Henan Grain & Cotton                  19         28          47             49          50          99
Jilin Hybird Corn                      3           3          6               5          6          11
Nei Hong Potato                        6          !0          16              a          12         20
Jiangsu Cotton                         4           6          10             a           10         18
Shandong Grain & Cotton               15         22          37              35         54          89
Anhui Brain & Cotton                   8         23          31             20          68          B
Dana Rice                             13          7          20              17         16          33
giansuo Fruit Tree                   28          41          69             36          55          91
Xinjiang Cotton                      76          97         173\b/          127        108         235\b/
Xinjiang Sugar Beet                   13         16          29             33          29          62
Xinjiang Wheat a Corn                31          20          5i             52          26          78
Guanqdong Sugar Cane                 171         88         259\h1          177         90         267\b!
Yunnan Sugar Cane                      8          0           a              17          5          22
Jiangsu Grain & Beet                  18          6          24             22          13          35
Total                         437        404         841             646        592      1,238
Aa/  This refers to technical personnel working full-time at project centers.  It does not include
managers, most of whoam have muitiple duties as directors of seed ciapany operations, or
workers employed on center-affiiliated seed farts.
\b/  Includes also staff of subfarus only indirectly associated with the project.



- 52-                             ANNUC 3
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Area Sawn to Improved Varieties \a/
Sown  Sown to Improved       Not Sown to
Area     Varieties        Improved Varieties
CROP                      mill ha  mill ha          '.   mill ha         %
Rice                              33.2      30.5        92         2.7         8
-of which: hybrid                6.7
Wheat                             28.0      26.0        93           2         7
Corn                              18.7      14.0        75         4.7        25
-of which: hybrid               13.0
Sorghum                            2.8       1.7        61         1.1        39
-of which: hybrid                1.7
Soybean                            8.4       6.3        75         2.1        25
Cotton                             5.7       4.9        86          .9        16
Peanut                             2.4       2.C)      8-3          .4        17
Oilseeds                           4.2       2.3        55         1.9       45
Potato                             3.4       2.2        65         1.2       35
Sugarcane                          6.6       4.7        71           2       30
SOURCE: 1983 data provided to the Appraisal Mission by the NSC.



ANNEX 4
_53 -                             Page 1 of 5
SEED DRYING, PROCESSINC AND STORACE
General
1.        The term "processing" as used here encompasses the various
operations required to prepare the harvested seed for marketing: bulk storage
and drying of raw seed as needed; shelling (corn, peanuts), de-awning (barley,
rice), singulation (sugarbeet, flax), delinting (cotton) and so on to render
the seed free flowing for subsequent operations and planting; pre-cleaning,
final cleaning, sizing, density grading, treating, packaging, and final
storage before distribution.
2.        Drying is the most critical operation in terms of seed quality.  If
the seed crop is allowed to dry-down too long in the field before harvest in
warm, rainy periods, severe field deterioration of the seed can occur. On the
other hand, if the seed crop is harvested early at a high seed moisture
content to minimize field deterioration, drastic reductions in viability and
vigor can occur unless the seed are dried to a "safe" level of moisture
promptly and properly. rn the more northern provinces in China there is a
special hazard that can be avoided only by drying: the seed of Late crops of
corn, rice and soybeans dry so slowly in the field and on the drying floor
that viability can be damaged by freezing temperatures unless seed moisture
content is reduced to below 18-20% by artificial drying before the onset of
freezing temperatures. Artificial drying would be required for maintenance of
a satisfactory level of quality for some kinds of seed (usually corn and rice)
in some areas in some seasons (e.g., wheat in Jiangsu). Field and floor
drying is entirely satisfactory in arid areas such as Xinjiang and also for
those kinds of seed harvested in the dry season, e.g., wheat and corn in
Henan. Since artificial drying is much more costly than sun drying, field and
sun drying would be used to the extent possible in all locations.
3.        Seed processing operations are usually not critical in terms of
timing but are essential for improvements in the physical and physiological
condition of the seed. Rice and wheat seed require essentially the same
processing system but are harvested and processed in different seasons; thus,
seed facilities combining wheat and rice are very efficient in terms of both
running time (days) and total annual output per level of investment. Since
soybeans are usually harvested later than rice, a combination wheat-rice-
soybean seed facility is especially efficient. Small quantities of corn also
fit well into wheat-rice operations. Large scale hybrid corn seed operations,
however, usually require a separate facility with a different type of drying
system, differenc conveyors, a large scale shelling station, and a battery of
sizing equipment. Cotton seed operations also require unique handling and
delinting systems although the cleaning, grading, treating and packaging
equipment used for the seed after delinting are the same types as for other
kinds of seed. Application of up-to-date seed technology to sugar beet seed,
i.e., singulation, polishing and coating, would also require distinctive
facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
4.        Seed storage in the provinces and for most of the kinds of seed
included in the project would not present any special problems in terms of
maintenance of viability if the seed are adequately dried. None of the
provinces has the humid subtropical/tropical type of climate that is so con-
ducive to rapid deterioration of seed and grain. Some of the provinces -
Xinjiang, Liaoning - have very good climatic conditions for seed storage. The
main emphasis in storage would be given to capacity (space), ventilation, and
corstruction features that facilitate pest control (insects, rodents).
Dehumidified and air conditioned storage space would be provided for the
vegetable seed operations in Jiangsu and Fujian provinces.
Present Situation
5.        The facilities presently available for seed operations at the
proposed project sites range from minimal (e.g., Xinjiang-cocton) to adequate
(e.g., Hunan-hybrid rice/Hejiashan farm). At most of the sites only floor
drying (sun) is provided and only the simplest (and relacively ineffective)
cleaners and graders are available. Some hand sorting of seed is practiced
with enormous labor input for small quantities of seed. The consequences of
near total dependence on drying floors and limited or no capacity to upgrade
and/or standardize seed quality through separation of defective, damaged, off-
size and low density seed are average to low quality seed lots for planting,
and wide variation in quaLity from season to season and site to site.
Emphasis on seed facilities in the proposed project is in line with the
objectives of the "four and one poLicv" to acquire and install modern seed
technologies, to increase mechanization of critical operations and to improve
seed quality.
New and Expanded Facilities
6.        The proposed project would provide facilities and equipment for seed
operations in 14 provinces/autonomous regions at 56 sites with individual
items of equipmenc for still other sites. In addition, equipment and
facilities would be provided for apple multiplication in Liaoning, sugarcane
in Yunnan and Guangdong, tropical fruits in Guangdong and potatoes in Nei
Monggol. The many kinds and combinations of seed to be handled at the
different sites would require a variety of seed drying and processing systems
and types and capacities of equipment. In general terms, the drying systems
procured for rice, wheat, and soybean seed would be of the continuous flow
type while bin or batch drying systems would be provided for drying of the
corn on the ear. Small batch type dryers would be !ulitable for vegetable
seed. The processing lines for wheat and rice would include (in sequence) a
pre-cleaner or scalper, basic air and screen cleaner, length separator,
gravity table and treater matched in capacity and linked by surge bins,
elevators and conveyors. Provisions for optional or alternative seed flows
within the line would permit by-passing the length separator, gravity table
and/or treater when not needed. The rice-wheat processing line with by-pass
options described would be entirely satisfactory for soybean seed, sorghum
seed, sugar beet seed (after initial "polishing"), other cereal seed such as
rye, barley and oats, and even for basic cleaning of small quantities of
shelled corn seed. The incorporation of several width-thickness graders in a



55 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
spur of the processing line would permit the limited size grading needed for
small tonnages of corn seed.
7.        Large scale h;'brid corn seed operations such as the Jilin Hybrid
Corn Seed Center, however, would be provided with drying and processing
systems designed exclusively for corn seed: batch or bin drying combined with
continuous flow drying; high capacity shelling station, and holding bins - all
linked with belt convevors and elevators; a precleaner, an air-screen cleaner,
a battery of width/thickness graders, a length grader, a gravity separator, an
aspirator for final cleaning and a treating station. Cocton seed would also
be handled in separate iaciiities because of its non-free-flowing characteris-
tics and the uniqueness of the delinting process. The acid-gas (anhydrous
HCT) delinting process would be used in arid Xinjiang, while the dilute acid
delinting process with centrifuge would be appropriate for Jiangsu where
precipitation and humidity are relatively high. Cleaning, grading and
treating of cotton seed after delinting would be accomplished with an air-
screen cleaner, gravity table, and treater of the same type as used for wheat,
rice or soybean seed. in Jiangsu, sugar beet seed would be polished, screened
and aspirated to remove inert material and increase uniformity, while in
Xinjiang wholly modern technology and equipment for singuLation, polishing,
cleaning and coating of sugar beet seed would be introduced. The packaging
systems provided for all sites - properly part of the processing line - would
be primarily of the semi-automatic bagger-weigher type with heavy duty bag
closer suitable for packaging seed in cotton cloth, woven polypropylene and/or
jute bags in quantities from 10 to 100 kg. Smaller packaging systems with
heat sealers for plastic film packages and can sealers for packaging in cans
would be provided for the vegetable seed operations.
Impact of Modern Seed Processing Technology on Seed Qualicy and Yields
8.        Cotton.  At present cotton seed in China are processed only through
the mechanical delinting stage. Elimination of defective seed/seedlings is
done by farmers using nonmechanical procedures not always properly applied.
Acid delinting of the cotton seed followed by cleaning, density separation and
treatment would substantially improve the qualicy of seed planted resulting in
more rapid emergence, more optimum stand density, more rapid growth and repro-
duction, earlier, more uniform maturity and an increase in total and recover-
able yield of between 10 and 15%.
9.        Corn.  The number of plants per unit area is the major determinant
of yield in corn since each plant bears about 1+ ears. Increases in corn
yield, therefore, are almost in direct proportion to increases in population
density of the plants within the desirable range. This is related to emer-
gence, which - in turn - is related to quality of the seed planted. Improve-
ments in the technology of corn seed as a result of the project should
increase yields about 6-8% on the average as a result of better emergence to
target density.
10.       Rice.  There is little evidence that improvements in the processing
technology of seed of conventional rice varieties improves yield in the trans-
plant system, which in a sense acts as a screen to eliminate defective seed
and low vigor seedlings. For conventional rice, therefore, benefits from more



- 56 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
rigorous processing of seed without a change to a superior variety would be
minimal - not more than 2-3X. There would, however, be the added benefit of a
reduction in planting rate by up to about 50% achievable through use of better
seed. Benefits would be higher for hybrid rice because processing would
increase the "purity" of the hybrid. Since the hybrid yields up to 50% more
than the parents or conventional varieties, a 3% increase in purity could
improve yield by up to about 1.5%. Further, since hyb-id rice seed are expen-
sive arnd Limited in supply, seeding rates are very low. This means that more
weak seedlings are transplanted rather than eliminated which has an adverse
effect on yield. On balance, expected yield increases as a result of better
processing of the hybrid rices would be about 5%. Additionally, every hectare
of conventional rice replaced by hybrid rice would result in an increase in
yield of about 25%.
11.       Wheat.  In some project areas wheat seed mature and are harvested
during the rainy weather which results in low quality, low density seed as a
result of foliar diseases and field deterioration. In other project areas,
warm, dry weather during the maturation period results in light, shriveled
seed. Modern seed processing equipment would separate out these low quality
low density seed leaving the higher quality "bold" seed. Although plant
number (population density) in wheat is not a major determinant of yield
within the normal range, high quality seeds do contribute to high yield.
Expected yield increases from improvements in seed quality are about 4-6%.
12.       Soybeans.  Soybean seed are reLatively fragile (mechanically) and
short-lived (physiologicaLly). Thus, the quality of seed available for plant-
ing can be quite Low. Improvements in the quality of soybean seed are
possible through application of modern technology and sound management. The
overall benefits of using good to high quality soybean seed as opposed to poor
to average quality seed are on the order of 5-8% exclusive of varietal
effects.
13.       Sugar Beets.  "Seed" are not the product of sugar beet production as
is the case with food grain crops. The product is tubers. Thus, farmers have
no opportunity to retain and save sugar beet seed which must always be
supplied from some off-farm source. There is little data on the influence of
sugar beet seed quality on yield or quality of product (e.g., sucrose content
of tubers), but based on data from other tuber/root crops, top quality sugar
beet seed would be expected to produce a crop with 10-15X higher value (yield
plus sucrose content) as compared to poor quality seed.
14.       Potato Tubers/Sugarcane.  The main problem with vegetative propa-
gules as compared to true seed are, apart from their "bulkiness," accumulation
of virus diseases in the plant body. Multiplication/production systems for
potatoes and sugarcane are designed to reduce virus infection and transmission
to a minimum. Depending on the incidence of virus diseases, disease free
potato tubers and cane, can produce crops that yield 25 to 100% more than
crops from seed severely infested with diseases.
15.       Vegetables.  Good quality vegetable seed produce crops that yield up
to 5-10% more vegetables than crops grown from average quality seed. The main
benefits of the vegetable seed investment, however, would be an increased



ANNEX 4
-57 -                            Page 5 of 5
supply of seed which would permit more hectares to be planted. Improvemelits
in vegetable seed production would also facilitate the change-over from
traditional to improved varieties with better quality and higher yields.
16.       Other factors to be considered in assessing the benefits of modern
seed processing technology include:
(i) elimination of smut transmission and scab infection in wheat through
seed treatment and gravity grading;
(ii) greater precision in mechanical planting of corn as a result of corn
sizing - seed thus planted produce more nearly optimum populations
and maximum yield;
(iii) escape from cold damage to seed as a result of proper storage;
(iv) reduction in labor input in plastic mulch and nutrient cube planting
systems for cotton made possible by use of acid delinted and treated
cotton seed; and
(v) increased possibilities for multiple-cropping and movement of crop
production to northernmost limits as a result of availability of
high quality (i.e. properly processed) seed.



- 58 -                                             ANNEX 5
Table 1
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Typical Variable Casts (Financial) for Seed Processing %a/
(Yuan/ton of clean seed)
Unit                                            Sugar  Catton-
Unit    Price      Rice    Wheat    Maize  Soybean         Beet      seed
Labor Xb/
Permanent (management)
-amount                  as       us       .03       .03       .03       .03       .03       .03
-value                 yuan                  3         3         3         3         3         3
Yariable
-amount                  so        55      .05       .05       .05       .05       .05       .10
-value                 yuan                   3         3        3         3         3         6
Power \c/
-amount                 kWh       .06       24        22        32        12        12        40
-value                 yuan                   I         1        2         1         1         2
Other Fuel \dJ
-amount                  kg     0.22        40        20        58        20        20        37
-value                 yuan                  10         5       14         5         5         9
Sulfuric Acid
-amount                  kg     0.34                                                          12
-value                 yuan                                                                    4
Treatment \eI
-value                yuan                  40        41        33         8       215       312
Bags & Other Ifl
-value                yuan                  36        36        36        36        36        36
TOTAL PROCESSING COSTS                      92        89        90        55       263       372
\a! Variable costs (financial prices) at time of appraisal. Processing costs include
receiving, drying and cleaning, packaging and treating.
NbJ  Estimated labor costs for a typical 8,000 ton/year plant with a permanent staff of
18 (plant manager, assistant managers, technicians, & permanent workers). Financial
cost of labor is estimated at Y4.0 per day for permanent skilled and Y2.5 for
variable labor.
Ic/ Electric power.
\d/ Coal for seed drying and other minor utilities.
\eJ Seed pesticide and other treatment chemicals.
If/  Bags at Y34.5 total (15 bags/ton at Y2.3/bag) plus tags and other miscellaneous
expenses at Y.l5/ton total.



-59 -                                              ANNEX 5
Table 2
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Typical Variable Costs (Economic) for Seed Processing \al
(Yuanlton of clean seed)
Unit                                            Sugar  Cotton-
Unit    Price      Rice    Wheat    Maize  Soybean         Deet      seed
Labor %h/
Permanent (managementl
-amount                  as                .03       .03       .03       .03       .03       .03
-value                 yuan       100         3         3         3        3         3
Variable
-amount                  as                .05       .05       .05       .05       .05       .10
-value                yuan         45        2          2        2         2         2         5
Power \c/
-amount                 kWh                 24        22        32        12        12        40
-value                 yuan     0.54         13        12       17         6         6        22
Other Fuel Id/
-amount                  kg                 40        20        58        20        20        37
-value                yuan      0.34         15         a       21         6         8        14
Sulfuric Acid
-amount                  kg                                                                   12
-value                yuan      0.3                                                            4
Treatment %e/
-value                yuan                  40        41        33         8       215       312
Bags & Other If/
-value                yuan                  36        36        36         6        36        46
TOTAL PROCESSING COSTS                     109       102       113        63       271       394
\a/ Variable costs leconoeic prices) at time of appraisal. Processing costs include
receiving, drying and cleaning, packaging and treating.
hbl Estisated labor costs for a typical 8,000 tonlyear plant with a pereanent staff of
1B (plant manager, assistant sanagers, technicians, and permanent workers). Economic
cost of labor is estimated at Y4.5 per day for permanent skilled and Y2.0 for
variable labor.
kci  Electric power at YO .1I9kh and a conversion rate of 30.  See S. lchishima and A.
Mood, Economic Analysis of Aluminum hilling in Shanghai' (May 1982).
\d/ Coal for seed drying and other minor utilities.
\e/ Seed pesticide and other treatment chemicals.
'fr Bags at Y34.5 total (15 bags/ton at Y.2.3/bag) plus tags and other miscellaneous
expenses at YI.5/ton total.



- 60-                                            ANNEX 5
Table 3
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Prices for Traded Goods, 1983 and 1993
CUSS/ton or Yuan/ton)
Rice     Coal    Wheat    Maize    Sugar   Cotton         Urea       TSP
\a/      \aI       kb/ b      c/       id/      \et       $f         %g1
Net Trade Status                             X         I          r         h        h         f         h         n
1983 Prices
International price 1USS) \h/                                   170      136       187      1850       135      135
Ocean Freight (USS)  i/                                          42        42       42        20        20        42
Shanghai (USS)                                                  212       179      229      1870       155       177
Shanghai (Y) 'u                             710       102       594       498      641      5236       434       496
Port Charges                                -25       -25        25        25       25        25        25       25
Transport \kI                               -10       -10        10        10       10        10        10        10
Milling adjusteent %I/                     -251
Equals economic price                       421        67       629      533       676      5271       469      531
Domestic price                              230                 330      210
1995 Prices
Internationail price (USS) %h/                                  177      135       315      1780      260       170
Ocean Freight (US$3 li                                           42       42        42        42        42       42
Shanghai CUSS)                                                 219       177       357      1822      302       212
Shanghai (VI \J/                            902       113       613      496      1000      5102       846      594
Port Charges                                -25       -25       25        25        25        25        25       25
Transport \kI                               -10       -10        10        10       10        10        10       10
Hilling adjustment \I/                     -310
Equals economic price                       549         0      649       531      1035      5137      891       629
…_                                                                              ----------------------------------
\a/ Based on amount and value of China's 2902 exports (from 'Statistical Yearbook of China, 1983'), adjusted
upward by 3.31 to IQ83 prices Cbased on the rate of increase of the NUV index in 1982-83).
\bI Canadian, No. 1, Western Red Spring, in store Thunder Bay.
\cI US, No. 2 Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports.
\d: horld, ISA Daily Price, FOB and stowed at Greater Carribbean Ports.
\e/ Mexican Middling 1-3/32', CIF NW Europe.
\fl FOB Europe, bagged.
\gI Triple Superphosphate, FOB 6ulf Ports.
\hl World Bank projections for 1993 and 1995 in 1983 constant prices (EPD, 'Quarterly Review of Commodity
harkets and Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts', Internal Memorandum, June 5, 1984.
\i/ Estimated freight rate for wheat, US Gulf - Japan. For cotton and urea, which are pr-iced CIF and FOB
Europe, the rate is an estimate of the difference between freight rates US Gulf - China and US 6ulf -
Europe.
\j/ Converted at the exchange rate of the estimating date.
\kI Assuming 200 km rail freight at Yl. and 25 km truck transport at Y0.2ton-km.
II/ Adjustment from milled rice to paddy-equivalent assuming a milling rate of 671 and net milling cost of
Y20/ton.



61 -                       ANNE 5
- 61 -                     Tnble 4
CH INA
SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Y million)
Project           Project
Year                   Costs\a/          Benefits\bI
1        1985                  73.9                 .0
2        1986                  113.1                 .0
3        1987                   57.6              23.5
4        1986                   38.7              65.6
5        1969                   36.7              138.0
6        1990                   36.7             139.2
7        1991                   38.2             140.7
8        1992                   36.2             152.0
9        1993                   38.2             159.2
10       1994                   38.2             167.4
11       1995                  36.2              176.2
12       1996                   38.2             187.0
13       1997                   56.6             207.5
14       1998                  56.6              222.9
i5       1999                  56.6              241.5
16       2000                   38. 0            259.2
17       2001                  38.0              297.8
18       2002                   38.0             349.4
19       2003'                  38.0             352.2
20       2004                   38.0             355.0
21       2005                   7.36.0           357.7
22       2006                   38.0             360.5
23       2007                   38 .0            363 .3
24       2008                   38.0             367.9
25       2009                   38.0             372.9
26       2010                   38.0             378.4
27       2011                   38.0             385.3
28       2012                   38.0             397.7
29       2013                   3B.0             413.8
30       2014                   38.0             429.8
Economic Rate of Return                            38%
\a/  Including investment, operations, and maintenance costs
based upon project costs for five representative seed
centers.
\b/  Total project benefits based upon project benefits for
five representative seed centers.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A.1 IBRD, China: Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments,
Report No. 4072-CHA, March 31, 1983.
A.2 MAAF, China: Agricultural Yearbook, 1981-83.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  Appraisal Mission.  "Terms of Reference for Studies," February 1985.
B.2  Delouche, J.C.  Benefits and Justification, Consultant's
Report to the World Bank, July 1984.
B.3  Delouche, J.C.  "Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants",
October, 1984.
B.4  Delouche, J.C.  "Representative Investment Costs for
Seed Processing Plants and Equipment", Consultant's Report
to the World Bank, July, 1984.
B.5  Delouche, J.C. "Seed Drying Processing, Handling and Storage,"
July, 1984.
B.6  Douglas, Johnson E. (editor).  Successful Seed Programs:  A
Planning and Management Guide. Boulder, Colorado: Westview
Press, 1983.
B.7  Feistritzer, Walther P. and KeLly, A. Fenwick (editors).
Improved Seed Production. Rome: FAO, 1978.
B.8  NSC.  "Rules for Seed Testing", 1983.
B.9  NSC/BSF.  "Climatic Data and Cropping Calendars", April, 1984.
B.10 NSC/BSF. Feasibility Reports on 18 Proje^t Seed Centers,
April, 1984.
B.11 NSC/BSF. "Representative Crop Budgets", April. 1984.
B.12 NSC/BSF. "Summary Report on China Seeds Projectt', April, 1984.



SEEDS PROJECT
Organizltonul structwue e  the Kinhatry or Afiulturu,
Animal IbaIndry nd Fihdrile
KUniater
Deputy
pUntater
I-Agroteehnical Exten,lon   I-Acadmy or AVicultural                                I                                         I                             I
I General StaUon            I      Scianoea s                     I Agricultural Nhd zanUonl            I   I Animal Humbsd   and w d
I                           I                                 I-I        Bureau               I         1-1 Veterltsry  edicine Bureaul           I   I  Cff1le o  Poliqv Stu*
I-Plant Prot*ctlon          I-Aoreult.tral Efineering         I   |                           I I_I  I_I                                          I   I                    _
I Gemral StaUon             I Remrdc  and Deaip               I         ___      ___                   I                                          I
I                           |      Institute                  |_   Land MaMM.ewt Gurmu    I             |                                         j
1-Nauona Seed               I                                 I   I           -       -   -
I CorpraUon                 I-Asricultural EhilbiUon          I                                         I                                         I
I                           I      Hall                       I                       _I.   Aquatic Prodcts Beaue
I-Animal, ad Plant          I                                 |    Fifherlea Adinistration  I          I   I                            I         I
I  arantiru Institute       I-Aviculural Film Studio          I-I        and Forts Bureu       I        I                I                          l     Eduaoaen Bureu 
I                           I                                  I I _    _   _   _   _    _   _ II                        I                         I      _   _    _   _   _   _    
I-kialL Husblndry and       I-Foreniw  Tedinical                                     -                  I        AqeLUc Products                  I
I Vetulrary Mdlialne        I Enrnoerltng Cc.parV             I                                                  Reaarcd  Cnter w
IGetaral StaUtnI I                                              I  C unme and Bripde           I        I                                         |   I  Science and TechnclCWy  I
|                           I-AsriLultAral ShoolI    Enterprise Dureau                         |        t                                         I-I        Swau                  I
I-Collective P.ngient       I of Bro-mdcsting                     I___                        |                                I                                 -  I                 o
Offlr                I                                I
I                           I-Cedrt Schodl o  Rurl            I                                           __     State Fms  BurWm   |             I
I-Corporation of Animal     IEaxnmcla Marmgenrt               1_   Veteran Cadre Bureau                     I I A.icultUre  Iratry  nd I          1I 1   Planning Buuu rI
I HutnAry Industriae        I                                   I_    _                                     I    Trd CorporaUon                   |   |                            I
I and Cerso                 I-Agricultural Puhlillng          I 
I                           I      Hmee                       I                                                          I__ 
I-St.. Fmrs Aport and       I                                 1-.  Agronuy Bureeu              I                         I                        1j1       Firaime   um           I
I Eort, S4nwv t             I-Gaes3 Reaardc  Institute        I   I _                                          South Cbins Treplel                I   I                            I
I                           I                                                                                  Cropa Rleakrde Center              I
I-Aquatic Producta Stpply   I-EnvronseterLl Protection        II
I and Sales Corporation     I      Center                     I__I Adirnlatration Bureau       I                                                           MaJ terlals Swreu
PIodiicta  Iiply   I-E,wirvmer*.aI                      I1o         IRU                                                                      ______________________
l4brlne Fiahjrla            I-Anmal OQarantin                 II
I     Comperv               I Research Imntitute              I                                                                                   |
I                                l__  Ptr l BwuI                                                                      1_1  Intion Bure                 I
I-Aqucultre Comparv         I-rgultAral rehdianiatlon             I                           I                                                        I                           I
I                             Reearci  Institute              I
I-Comaxe and Brigade                                          I
1*terpriaes Nmraaper                                         -.  ForeigAn Ufairs Bueau  i
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



FIGURE 2
-64 -
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECr
Re proseritoh OrganIzaHonal Slnucm of
Loca Seed Componles/Fo           Hunan Ptnce
[ H             IQM                                              I -   <f
H mw'tl                                                         I Anndl .y&  I
-~~~~~~~ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    F_   _  __                 NO lat  m
a.                    r--    Lu-  Cz I
Seed  ~~~~~&kne eefo
Ikck Se Fam 
~~~~~~~~~Ifs
. w  tiu  rIIgS HWhI
S"d~~ Fadcn
* ~~~s d  compa*.   uni
BL Hou3shota
wow E ai*-2672U



CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
State Farms Administrotive Structure
Matledos
C7"d BUrOM  rrent         Stale              Miniatl MI~c   AlItatkdrs              GovetnrroicilmokxigPontva
Gnd rSte FrmPcin                                        d Finmo n    Adbk-51talion                Ganren                     w"n               FColce            m| ieuse
_  s   ~~~~~~goUcallon 1d FurK^ts_                                                               _
n _                                                                           c                                                                      - 
b
_  r        lt   _            =    bt  ~~~~~~~~~~~~O~flIt                              1 r    _ Cb
XhingHohDg                                  Gu cnd-                  Yunnozn                  In.neM rl
provklck               Rovincia               FIvk nh l               RmAnckl                   FProvincial                                          FRovinclad
Duteou of              Bukeau of              Bureau Wo   d                                                                                          50o f  9eou d  Weaust
Stato erns             State Famr|   Slate Frms                      Stalo Farms                 Shle F atm                                          Stote FaoTT4
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot EW                         _1 xi°
Stato Faffns                      ~~~~~~~State Fcvms4SaeFT
System d dkrct affdiattion all Invesmenit Wckudng Capito autlaVs. Motirials. & operating casts are .sPied by the
control grvemnent & personnel of top mncnagemnent levels ate appointed by the central gorvrnent
b 9ytem of direct u&x*  centrao oernment provides all hwetmmnts except allocabion of personnel
vAhlch Is the responsibllity d the provWIce
c Sytlorn of lot state armr  alt Intnvstents & personnel ate spplkbd by prA.ncKA & county govafnents
WorldBonk-26n7         G)



FIGURE 4
-66-
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Representathe Organizatnal Stiucure for
Local State Faffns Bureous/AmiC:
Liaoning ProWnce
_    LVWoCnbig                                       k__       Anoi Husbarcky&
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O Cmnorcy.lA 'c  Rmtnxoon [
I    IL
- - -.-Pen
Praulnclol AGIIC. &   W  - --              4~~~ Formwo Murcu 
(Seed Ca)                 t  h TMdr ---                           W   -  1 -  TePdcV Sd0
b~~~~~~~Idspo & TKi                                  - CD Bxw(pw d - Pcmh) & hrrsnc
Ch Cogtlfn _                 (AC)    SkF Ia.                 -Aid Huw
AquatProdumb-  -Ag4fkuu. Foodgi oeFnX
ofaice & Technolog/E
DfwI Courd                                                      An Hdmd
u I -I
|Iranch Seed CoiibnVes5
Wo"d Bk-26 725



FIGURE 5
-67-
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
Organtzation for Project Implenrntalon
Offe of MAAF
,AOA
Notio"    Genwr       Ndhrogc
Codobn    Sta3e Fad        Ps nc
kjmwc       Omfdfoms
at Padaof   Seed
Comipanss& ft..s
The.v cre two FRiAOs for JkamgmRa one of NCOnki & ori at HuKOYVI
World BCnk-26726



- 68 -                                           FIGURE  6
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
SEED PRODUCTION CALENDAR
--------------------------_-------------------------------______________
lJan.IIFeb.IlMar.jIApr.IIMay  |JJun.|lJul.| Aug.JJSep.I Oct.lJNov. iDec. 
Rice-Single Crop
-----------------------                        P = Planting
-P /                                 / H            H = Harvesting
_/ --  -   --  -   ------------I ___
Rice-Double Crop-Early
…          I…I/---------              ---
I       P/                            I Hi
…_-__-__ /__…_-__ _
Rice-Double Crop-Late
--- t ------------------/-
{pi                          / Hi
I/ -------     -----------
Wheat-Winter
P/                                      / Hi                      IP
-____ ----------------          -      --…/__                          I---------
Wheat -Spring
7P/                                    HI
Corn
--- -----------                      ---
IP/                                     I H  I
Soybean
----------------…----
P/    __   _ _     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  /_   _
Cotton
----------------…----
ip/                                                  HI
Sugar Beet
…1-- Hi                                                                        IP
_______    ________ ___    ___________      /____                          _  _  _  _  _ _  _



- 69 -
CHINA                                               nIGU  7
SEEDS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year                         I     1985     It    1996              1987     It   1938             1909
:   --_  _  ________I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- - - - --~_______
Qa rta                                      2   a 3    14i    I    a  a  a  I  2  a  4     I   2     a  a   a  2    a  
:a. Detailed Design                    :Ixxxlxx:xxx:xxx:   :   :   :
B. Construction of Buildings                         x :xxx:xxx:xxx:x:h xx:                        : I    I   : I  
C. Farm Development                           .   .                                .
-Land levelling                           a    xxx xxxa         x xlxxx    a
-Irrigation and drainage                    ::xxx  xxx        :xx:x:           :
-Rural roads                      :   :   : xxx xxxz:uzx:   :xxxx:xx: x        :   :
D. Procurement                         a:  bh  c        d       5e:                                            I I  a
-Seed processing equipment        :xxx:xxx:xxxlxxxlxxx:xxx:xxx:xx:xxx:   :   :   :   :         :   :     :   :   :
:I           a b                a I         I  e         I       I   I     I
-hboratory and affice equipent  axxx:xaxx:xxx'xxxlxxxaxxx:xxx:xxx                                                
al' bl c     Id                 e                                 I
aaara  aachinera and vehicles    axxxaaxxxaaxxxaaxxxlxxx:xx:xxxlxxx:xx     ::
a   b  c     Ida d              e     a
-a grIcheicals and oaterials     axxxaaxxxaxxxaxxx:axx:xxx:xxxxxx:xxx                                            
I     LEMIIULJ!7eds                     : xexxx:xxxlx IX   xlxxx:xxxIx    xlxxx:xxxax  a X    aX X   aXX aX   a
E. Training 
-Overseas specialized                         I      x 'xxx xxx 'xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx lxxx xxx    1
-Overseas study tours                         :x xxxxxx xxx:
F. Technical Assistance
-Management and design review             ixx,x,xxXXXl IX XX  XX  XX  IX
-Seed proaessing science anda 
technology                               Ixxx xxx'xxx:xxxlxxs:xxx:xxxx:xxxx:xx xsx xxxlxx:xxxsaxxxlxxx xxx    : a
-Iguality assurance                       I :xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:xxx:          . ::I   
-Studies         nxxx:xxx:xxxlxxxxxzxxx xzxx   xx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx x
a tes an pracure  nt:  a = invitation to  bid; b = bid evaluation; c = contract award; d =  begin
delivery; e = finish delivery.



500             70°                                  82°                                 94"                               106"
SOVIET               UNION
->- )   a                                             Zf,ULAANBAATAR
/                           7>  f                            MONGOLIA
Huocheng,     Kuitun
,   _Jz  ~~    . Akesu           xIN16 yJIA NGC     
0  xi r'JJ'1A NC      Wulanchabu
AFGHANISTAN
'tAt
82"
.NiNCZXIA
This map has been orepared by
The World Banks staff exclusively                                               OINCFAI
tor the convernence t theH
readers and is exchJsively for the                                                                             G A N  o
internal use of The Wbrld Bank
and the hnternational Finance                                                                                                  S  .1 A !J I
Corporation The denofwrations
used and the boundanes shroxn
on tis map do not imply. on the
part of The Wodrd Bank and the
kntemabonal Finance Corporation.
any judgment on the legal status                       x 1.Z A NC G* Monyng
of any territory or any                                                                                       C t  :
endorsement or acceptance ot                                                                            Qifon
such bowidanes.                                                         940 °                                        Neiiing  Fulin
CHINA                                                   7                              .J
SEEDS PROJECT                                                     26,
-    Seed Center Production                                              YU NNANs   Mie
and Processing Locations                               - 7A '.-
Provincial Boundaries 7
International Boundaries                                  B    MA            1     VIETNAM             -
BURMAJ 
KILOMETERS                                                                      <       HANO
0      200      400     600      800    1000                           I-.'     LA   PEOPLE'S)                       Bo
00f   DEM. REP.K <
miLES                                             THAILAND  /VENTIANE.                                 



IBRD 18548
1060                                i 18°        ,                       1300                                    142'
\~~~~~~~
(                                                    /             ~     Hulunbeir
,,ULAANBAATAR                                                                             5
MONGOLIA                                           >1                                                   C
rG zhuliulng
-4YE/DrMOCRATIc
Wulanchcbu                                      .D o   /PEOPLES REPUBLC
*   -                OF KOREA
N& .' i   CNO Y i - t,-;i':                 * BEUING                     PYONGYANG, --'                                       JAPAN
t¢SEOUL                                 *TOKYO
REPUBLIC
-,                Lingxian                                  OF
Yucheng                                KOREA
,Qihe
, i RAsr N  G                         4Minquon               Guanyun
y  - NinglinJ r   nqS n     awi Bino
Hiuo           'Suxi
Glioyong     Atnghuo
AN'CHA!
M'ionyng
SiCH jA N
QiongIai  Xijin6
Me;lf   Nijioang   Min                                  Jihjiong
He iashoft                       Shcnngroo
Changsha   -Nonchar4
u  Thuzlhodt    yjhuh  Fuzhou
nhu        Lilin
Qidong HengYang   Jion
Jingxion
* Lingling    Gnxhou
* Bonegxon     Dengjiabu
tonghoi
YUNNNA N    Mile
SIIA /z    -:Kuiton
7                       ,,-*.7                                 : v ePHONG KONG, U.K.
__14W"hoi ;                                                         A^,POnT
/VlET NAM   M....            Hmigymig
.           OHANO/l
LAO  PEOPLE'SJ    ( ,T hm-                                       Soulh Chr,ina  S-z
"    DEM. REP.K         -                    *xtR
AD               ) m                                                                                PHILIPPINES
NOVEMB 1     830
NOVEMBER 1984






