Docum
The WorJ
FOR OFYlCLU
Report No. 9935
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1577-CHA)
OCTOBER 5, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalercs
US$ 1.00 - Yuan 2.80 (1985 appraisal)
US$ 1.00 - Yuan 3.45 (1986)
US$ 1.00   Yuan 3.72 (1987-1989)
US$ 1.00   Yuan 4.72 (1990 onwards)
Yu.n 1.00   US$ 0.32
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
BSF               Bureau of State Farms
DANIDA            Danish International Development Agency
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
MOA               Ministry of Agriculture
NSC               National Seeds Corporation
PLG               Project Leading Group
PMO               Project Management Office
PRS               Production Responsibility System
NCP               North China Plain Project Office
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
TA                Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington DC 20433
USA
ONsce of Dlrectdo-General
Ope^tatons Evaluatiiln
October 5, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on China Seeds
Proiect (Credit 1577-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China Seeds Project (Credit 1577-CHA)" prepared by an
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAI, (JSL ONlY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1577-CHA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
EVALUATION  SUQi4ARY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .                        iii
PART  I  - PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                          1
Project  Identity    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project  Objectives  and  Description    .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                       2
Project  Design  and  Organization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .                      3
Project  Implementation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                  4
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .                 4
Project  Sustainability    .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                   9
Bank Performance.   .                          .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
Borrower  Performance    .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
Project  Relarionship    .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
Consulting  Services  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    11
Project  Documentation  and  Data    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .    11
PART  II  - PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   12
Project  Implementation  and  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   12
Project  Construction  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   13
Training  and  Consultants  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .   13
Benefit       .      .     i     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     i     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  14
Evaluation,  Findings  and  Conclusion    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .   14
Problems  and  Suggestions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .   15
Conclusion  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   16
Comments  on  Part  I  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   16
Comments  on  Part  III  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   18
Function  of  the  Borrower  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   18
Relations  with  Other  Agencies.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   19
PART  III  - STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
1.   Related  Banlc Credits  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
2.  Project Timetable  .........   . ...............  .  22
3.   Credit  Disbursements  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   22
4.    Project  Implementation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   22
5.  Project Cost and Financing .......                                    .  ............  .                        .  24
A.    Project  Cost.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   24
B.    Project  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
6.  Project Results   ........................                                              25
A. Direct Benefits ...  .. 25
B. Economic Impact ..                                                              25
C.  Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
D. F nancial Impact. .    .                                                        27
E.  Financial Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
F. Studies..  .                                                                    28
7.  Status of Covenants.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
8.  Use of Bank Resources.  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
A.   Staff   Inputs.      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    29
B,  Missions     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .  29
Map - Location of Project Institutions    . . . . . . . . . . . . IBRD No. 23286



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1577-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completior. Report (PCR) for the Seeds Project
in China, for which an IDA Credit (Credit 1577-CHA) in the amount of SDR41.7
million (US$40.0 million equivalent) was approved on April 11, 1985. The
project was designed to upgrade facilities at 18 seed production, processing
and distribution centers in twelve provinces and two autonomous regions. The
Credit was closed after a one-year extension on December 31, 1990. Last
disbursement was on December 21, 1990, and the credit has been fully
disbursed.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program and IDA mission which visited China during April/May 1991
and is based, inter alia, on an initial draft produced by the Project
Management Office which was locally reviewed in a meeting in Beijing in
February 1991, the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5384-CHA), the Credit Agreement
(1577-CHA), supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and discussions with staff of the
implementing agencies. Part II was prepared by the Seeds Project Office,
Ministry of Agriculture, China.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1577-CHA.
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The principal objective of the project was to assist the Government
in developing the seed industry by: (a) modernizing facilities at 18 seed
production, processing and distribution centers; (b) strengthening the
National Seed Corporation (NSC) in particular in seed testing and
certification services; and (c) contributing to increased production of high
quality seed for major food and cash crops. The project was also expected to
servc as a model for planned construction over the next two decades of over
300 modern seed centers.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project has been successful in achieving its objectives.
Project implementation has been effective and on schedule, except for initial
delays in starting construction at a small number of processing sites due to
protracted negotiations and late signing of contracts. The quality of work
has generally been excellent.  Most of the equipment installed has performed
up to expectation, except for part of the cotton seed processing equipment
supplied by one of the manufacturers. The problem was eventually corrected by
local staff. Technical assistance (TA) and training achieved all its targets.
However, some changes in the content of TA and training became necessary to
adjust to cha.nging needs of the project, funding constraints and rising costs.
Also, construction of seed nroduction bases lagged behind other project
components, in part due to lack of counterpart funds and expansion of the
production area. In order to complete the works and allow time for execution
of contracts for supply of remaining equipment and materials, and to carry out
further training, the project closing date had to be extended by one year.
Project Results
3.        Most of the project objectives have been achieved.  Modern seed
processing facilities were established in 18 seed centers. These include 43
complete processing lines installed in 32 seed plants and 21 individual seed
processing machines which are operational at the 18 seed centers. In 1990,
about 230,000 tons of certified seeds were produced, with some plants having
excess capacity due to slight over-design of the plants (see para 18).
Training and technical assistance have strengthened operation of equipment,
project management, seed testing and quality assurance and control and
selected techinical expertise (see para 23 and 24). The project also provided
for the development and improvement of crop seed land bases. A total of 78
seed bases under the 18 seed centers were developed and equipped for full-
scale seed production. However, seed quality assurance and control procedures
need to be further enhanced to ensure high quality seed output and facilitate
a gradual change to international seed testing standards. Lessons learned



iv
during implementation about improved seed marketing services need to be widely
applied during the post-project era, so as to ensure optimal annual capacity
utilization and to further enhance crop production benefits (see para 28). At
appraisal, the economic rate of return (EPR) was estimated at 38% and is now
re-estimated at 72%, due mairnly to a substantial increase in the output of
processed hybrid rice seed and the resulting large incremental paddy
production (see para 23).
Sustainability
4.        The project has made a significant contribution in establishing
modern prodtiction and processing facilities in 18 seed centers. At
appraisal, the Government had assured that margins between retail prices of
processed seeds and full production costs available to seed centers would be
maintained at a level of 20% t. 30% above full production cost. In actual
fact, however, under the Government's prevailing seed pricing policy, the
margins allowed to seed companies are much lower, except for wheat seed (see
para 27). As a result, the financial viability of the seed centers and their
ability to create adequate reserves for maintenance, repairs and replazement
is in jeopardy. Project sustainability will largely depend on the seed
companies becoming self-financing, autonomous institutions and perhaps, in the
future, private sector participation in seed production and distribution could
be encouraged. Government has assured its continuous support to the operation
of the seed centters, even if this would involve injection of additional
capital and/or operational subsidies, and decided to maintain the Project
Management Office (PMO) to provide continuous guidance and support to the seed
centers from the central level. However, budgetary implications of this
policy would need closer examination especially in the context of the plans
for construction over the next two decades of over 300 seed production,
processing and distribution centers throughout the country.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.        The need for a national seeds project was unquestionable.  The
project was conceived and designed at a time when the seed production and
processing facilities in China were not only inadequate but also in need of
upgrading and modernization, both under the collective and state farm systems.
During the project implementation period, there were a number of areas in the
seed industry which were affected by structural reforms, in particular the
inclusion of the seed processing sector in the production responsibility
system (PRS), that were not anticipated at appraisal. This inclusion had a
profound effect on project management in that seed companies now have to deal
with large numbers of individual households instead of big production units
like the brigades. Consequently, complexities of marketing of seeds have
increased, Further. at appraisal, the demand for seeds (mainly conventional
rice seeds) was somewhat over-estimated and seed processing capacities planned
accordingly leading to under-utilization of installed capacities in some of
the seed centers. Shortfalls in capacity utilization are also due to
dispersed decision making at lower levels and deficiencies in marketing
intelligence and skills. There is scope for increasing seed sales but it will
require more aggressive, innovative and promotional marketing than that is in



v
place at present. Improved marketing would need to be complemented by
strengthening support services, (extension, demonstration, input supply),
especially to individual households under the PRS system.  This could be
accomplished by developing an array of on-farm demonstrations on the benefit
of improved seeds at all major seed centers, and on farmers, fields,
6.        The main lessons from experience of che project implementation are:
(a) in planning seed development, the importance of on-farm production,
retention, and farmer-to-farmer exchange of seeds, particularly for
conventional rice, needs to be recognized (para 18); (b) seed prices have to
be set adequately high, to reflect all investment and operational costs,
including depreciation, to ensure financial viability of the investment and
sustainability of the operation (para 27); (c) efficient tendering procedures
for procurement of machinery and equipment should be devised so as to ensure
that they are not cumbersome and to require successful bidders to provide more
detailed designs (para 19) in order to avoid delays and installation problems.
7.        Implementation experience has also shown that strong central
guidance and support has substantially contributed to making the project a
success and that staff continuity, especially of personnel trained under the
project, is of critical importance.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1577-CHA)
PART I _ R9JECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name         Seeds Project
Credit No.           1577-CHA
RVP Unit             Asia Region
Country              China
Sector               Agriculture
Sub-sector           Agricultural Support Services
Background
1. Agriculture continues to be a key sector of China's economic development,
providing sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of income for
over 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30% of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). In 1990, foodgrains occupied about 70% of the crop land and
accounted for one-third of total agricultural output. In view of the limited
opportunities for expanding the total cropped area, growth strategy has
focussed on increasing yields on existing cultivated areas. This strategy was
critically dependent, among other factors, on the provision to farmers with
good quality seed. Over the years, the Government had encouraged the
establishment of a national network of seed enterprises under the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). At appraisal, the basic mechanisms were in place, however,
deficiencies in processing technology and quality assurance and control
procedures resulted in production of poor quality seed. This in turn
translated into excessively high seeding rates, high production cost and les.
than optimum yields.
2. To address these shortcomings, the Government had increased investments
in the seed industry and long-range plans called for the establishment or
upgrading of over 300 seed centers throughout China. Based on projected crop
production requ're-ments and consideracion of regional "omparative advantage,
the Government, in consultation with Bank staff, selected 18 seed centers for
inclusion in the project.  This was the first project of its kind financed by                Kl
the Bank in China which subsequently was followed by a series of development
projects with a seed component (see Part III/1).



2
Prolect Obije5tives and Description
3. The principal objective of the proposed project was LO assist thle
Government in developing the seed industry. The project was to modernize
facilities at: 1.8 seed productioni, processing arid distribution centers in 12
provinces and 2 autonomous regions.  It was also itntended to strenlgtheln
operations of China's central seed agency, the National Seeds Corporation
(NSC), in particular its seed testing and certification services.  The project
was expected to contribute to increased producrion of high-quality seeds for
major fooci and cash crops and to serve as a model for phased construction over
the next two decades of over 300 modern seed centers.
4.  The project as appraised, included the following main components:
(a) construction ,f about 350,000 m2 of buildings for processing plants,
warehouses, testing laboratories and staff housing;
(b) improvements to about 28,000 ha of seed farms including land levelling
and construction or upgrading of 480 km of rural roads, 1,550 km of
irrigation canals and drains, about 165 wells, and five pumping
stations;
(c) provision of seed processing and laboratory equipment;
(d) provision of farm machine:y, vehicles and materials;
(e) local and overseas training in seed technology, quality assurance and
control, and management for staff of the centers and implementing
agencies;
(f) technical assistance to conduct seminars and workshops in seed
technology, quality assurance and control, and management and to
help develop a model seed technology and science curriculum at four
agricultural colleges; and
(g) studies of seed supply and demand, marketing and prices, and quality
assurance and control procedures.
5.  The 18 project seed centers are located ir widely differing agro-
ecological zones. Three of them are in the Northeast (Jilin and Liaoning);
four in Northwest border provinces (Xinjiang and Nei Monggol autonomous
regions); two in North China (Shandong and Henan); three in East China (Anhui,
Jiangsu); two in Central China (Hunan and Jiangxi); two in South China
(Guangdong, Fujian); and two in the 3outhwest (Sichuan and Yunnan).  These
provinces/autonomous regions represent principal producing areas for major
food and cash crops including rice, wheat, corn, soybean, potatoes, fruit and
vegetables, sugar crops, and cotton.
6. The project was to be implemented over a period of four years, at a total
cost of US$86.8 million and an IDA Credit of SDR41.7 million (US$40 million
equivalent at appraisal) was made available. Of the total project cost,
buildings accounted for 23%, seed farm development for 17%, equipment and
materials for 42%, training and technical assistance for about 2%, and



3
physical and price contingencies for the balance. Overall responsibility for
project implementations was with tne MOA.
Proiect Design and Organization
7.  Design.  The project was designed to overcomie the main weakntesses of the
seed industry, i.e., poor management, inadequate technical supervision and
lack of processing and seed production bases and storage facilities. It,
therefore, inicluded the provision of advarnced equipment for seed drying,
processing, packaging and laboratory analyses; introduction of techniques for
preparing facility layouts and dcveloping uniform quality assurance/control
procedures; and approaches to technical and business management of seed
enterprises. Over the long term, this transfer of technology and expertise
was to facilitate rapid modernization of seed processing facilities, as well
as strengthening the capacity of the NSC to administer a modern national
system for seed marketing and control.
8. The project represented the first operation funded by the Bank group in
support of the seed industry in China. Its concept of introducing modern
technology and management practices was innovative and sound; the conceptual
basis being clearly understood, both by the Bank and the Borrower. The scope
and scale of the project were appropriate in the context of its objectives.
The initial project proposal was prepared by the Government in 1983, and pre-
appraised by an IDA mission in May 1984, followed by an appraisal in August
1984. In general, the project was well prepared. There were, however, some
weakness' in the project design such as: (a) too little attention was paid to
the increasingly complex management (including marketing) requirements,
resulting from the introduction of the production responsibility system (see
para 8.1); (b) the demand for conventional rice seed was over-estimated; and
(c) the project was established in isolation, without due regard to the
critical forward linkages to the farm households, especially extension and
marketing (see para 8.2 c).
9. Organization. As planned at appraisal, the MOA had overall
responsibility for project implementation and a project management office
(PMO) was established with staff drawn from the North China Plain (NCP)
Project Office, NSC and Bureau of State Farms (BSF), all under the MOA. In
addition, Government had established a project leading group (PLG) to provide
overall coordination of project activities and the required linkages between
the PMO and other agencies. Staff of NCP mainly provided institutional
support,vwhilst NSC and BSF were the key executing agencies. Whereas the NSC
was responsible for seed supply to the collective sector, the BSF su-plied
seeds mostly to the state farm sector. Of the 18 seed centers selected for
upgrading under the project, 10 were operated and managed by NSC, and eight by
BSF. The organizational arrangements have proven to be satisfactory and
especially the strong central support from the PLG and the PMO has
substantially contributed to making the project a success. In the future,
however, the NSC would have to play a more active role to strengthen seed
quality assurance aspects to upgrade performance to international standards.
" Three of the ten NSC centers are in counties included in the then on-going IDA-financed North China Plain Project
(Cr. 1261-CHA).



4
International procurement, despite being constrained by cumbersome procedures,
was handled efficiently by the Chitna National Technical Import Corporation
(CNTIC), as was the clearing and forwardirng of equipment and materials which
was mostly done by the Chinese State Farm Agri-business Corporation.
Project Implementation
10. Variances in Project Implementation. The stipulated project period was
four years from June 1985 to June 1989. Although by the end of 1989, most
physical targets were achieved, the project period was extended by one year to
procure mainly equipment and materials, complete construction of the seed
bases, and to allow for implementation of the training component, which did
not proceed as scheduled due mainly to a lack of sufficiently qualified
candidates with English language capability for study tours and overseas
training courses.  Besides the extension of the project period, some
reallocation in the loan categories were made: first, in October 1988, in
order to include funding for civil works, mainly for seed farm development
from the unallocated category; second, in January 1989, in order to increase
the training component, mainly from savings in the equipment, materials and
vehicle component. Final adjustments were made to use the remaining unspent
credit balance for the purchase of materials (mainly fertilizers), vehicles,
spare parts and equipment.
11. Proiect Risks. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not anticipate any
major risk, as the project involved proven seed processing technology already
in regular operation in other parts of the world, and in view of the fact that
a sound organizational structure for seed operation was already in place.
However, the inability of the project management to adjust to a rapidly
changing political/economical environment, as well as possible low adoption of
improved self-pollinating seeds by farmers were not foreseen as risk factors.
12. Unforseen Factors Affecting Project Implementation. Unforseen at
appraisal was the decision of the Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA) to support project activities by providing grant funds to NSC and BSF
to the amount of Danish Kronor 9.8 million (US$1.3 million equivalent in 1986)
over four years for overseas study tours, consulting services and training in
the operation of modern production and processing facilities. The agreement
between China and Denmark was signed on March 26, 1986. Subsequently, the
project's training tdrgets were revised from a total of 983 to 1,380 man-
months and technical assistance from 32 to 79 man-months (for details, see
Part III/4).
Project Results
13. The project has fully achieved its main objective of establishing a
modern seed production, processing and distribution infrastructure in twelve
provinces and two autonomous regions. As planned, all the 18 seed centers
were modernized and expanded. The achievements of the various sub-components
are as follows.
14. Buildings. The project provided for the construction and renovation
mainly of processing and storage facilities (164,427 m2), laboratory and
office buildings (50,001 m2) and staff housing (110,482 m2), amounting to a



)
total of 324,900 m2.  In addition, a lump sum allocation was provided for the
construction of ancillary buildings and facilities, Construction tas
generally implemented as planined (see Part 111/4).  However, only 57,083 i 2 of
staff housing were constructed, due mainly to a change in Government policy
which gave greater autonomy to the seed centers but resulting in provisioln of
lesser financial support to them,  As a restult, investments, especially in
non-productive assets such as staff housing, were curtiailed.
15. Seed Farm Development.  Under the project, infrastructure on 28,000 ha of
seed farms was to be improved by land levelling, construction of 1,547 km of
irrigation and drainage canals, 480 km of rural roads, 422 m of bridges and
the establishment of 170 wells and pumping stations. Although it was
anticipated at appraisal that this sub-component would be completed by the end
of PY3, less than 50% of the funds allocated were by then utilized, adversely
affecting capacity utilization of the established seed processing lines.
However, at project completion, actual achievement in terms of area to be
improved and the total seed growing area has exceeded SAR estimates:
SAR                   PCR
Area to be improved               28,000 ha               34,000 ha
Total area of seed farms         112,000 ha              134,000 ha
The roads, bridges and pumping stations constructed under the project, even
though they had fallen short of appraisal targets, met with actual needs.
16. Processing and Laboratory Equipment. At appraisal, it was estimated that
a total of 32 processing lines, together with 45 individual processing
machines (35 grain seed process.ng machines, 7 cotton seed processing plants
and 3 machines for vegetable seed) for use at small farm sites would be
required. The processing lines for rice, corn, wheat, soybean, and/or sugar
beet seed were to have a collective hourly capacity of 52 tons of cleaned,
treated and packaged seed.  The total capacity of the 35 individual grain seed
machines was to be 17 tons per hour (tph) of basic cleaning.  The seven cotton
seed processing plants were to have a total delinting/processing capacity of
15 tph and the three centers producing vegetable seeds were to be provided
with equipment for extraction, drying, cleaning and packaging of vegetable
seed, each with a capacity of 0.3 -0.5 tph packed seed output.
17. As against the above appraisal targets, 45 processing lines have been
established, but individual processing machines procured number only 21.
During implementation, it was decided to decrease the number of single grain
seed processing machines and increase the number of processing lines, as the
latter can: (a) produce higher quality seeds; (b) process seeds of different
crops; (c) package processed seeds; and (d) facilitate handling of raw
material. As a result, the collective hourly capacity of the processing lines
has increased from 52 tons, as planned at appraisal, to over 67 tons per hour.
Also, although the numbers of individual machines have been reduced, their
collective output at 24 tph is higher than planned at appraisal, mostly due to
the procurement of higher capacity machines (at equal or even lower cost)
and/or locally-made adaptations. Cotton and vegetable seed processing
capacities were installed as per appraisal estimate. In addition, two feed



6
lines with a total capacity of 8 tph and a fine rice line with 5 tph capacity,
were installed.
18. Whereas it appears certain that full annual processing capacities can be
reached for all processing lines, there is some doubt about the capacity
utilization of the single machines whiclh are mostly used for the processing of
conventional rice seeds. Farmers are not yet fully convinced about the
benefits oF processed conventional seeds and still depend, to a large degree,
on an exchange among themselves or their own reserves. Indications are that
the demand for conventional rice seed was over-estimated at appraisal and that
the seed companies are not making a strong enough promotional effort, due to
the rather low profit margin.
19. From the commencement of the project, it took between two to three years
before the processing lines became operational. This period could have been
shortened if detailed engineering designs were prepared in advance and made
available by the suppliers of processing equipment, the procedures for
approval and acceptance of tenders were less cumbersome, and construction of
buildings completed in a timely manner. In general, the type and capacity of
machines installed has proven appropriate. Major problems arose only with the
cotton seed acid delinting plants. Besides the poor performance of one
supplier (see also para 39), operating experience necessitated the following
changes:
-  enlarging of the neutralizer nozzle to allow entry of a larger volume
of ammonia, in order to reduce acid concentration;
-   replecement of stainless steel pipes by PVC pipes to prevent corrosion;
-  reduction of conveyor belt angle to facilitate flow;
-  addition of locally-made centrifuge to those plants originally
installed without centrifuges, to reduce residual acid and shorten
drying time.
20. Although the supply of 3-4 years of spare parts were included in the
tender, in some cases, essential spares were not provided by the supplier.
Nevertheless, maintenance of the plants is satisfactory as arrangements have
been made for local production of replacement parts and import of spares which
cannot be produced locally.
21. Provision was also made for purchasing seed testing and office equipment
for all 18 seed centers and SAR targets have been fully achieved. Minor
problems arose with the instruments to analyse fibre quality, but these were
resolved prior to project completion.
22. Farm Machinery, Vehicles and Materials. SAR targets were substantially
exceeded, excepting for farm implements of which a total of 346 units
(appraisal target of 478) were procured. This is due to the adjustment of
procured numbers to actual requirements. As against this position, a total of
538 vehicles (SAR:340 units), 544 tons of agro-chemicals (SAR:333 tons), and
66,056 tons of materials (SAR:21,246 tons) were actually procured. The steep
increase in the latter was due mainly to the import, in view of local supply



7
shortage, of an additional 38,349 tons of fertilizers out of exchange gains,
in order to ensure adequate supply to seed farms.
23. Training and Technical Assistance. At appraisal, the overseas training
programme gave emphasis to crop improvement and breeding. During
implementation, the focus shifted partly to seed processing and testing, farm
machinery and vehicle operation and maintenance, utilizing 75 man-months.
Total overseas training amounted to 108 man-months. The shortfall against the
revised target of 312 man-months was due mainly to a lack of sufficiently
qualified candidates with English language capability. Only 666 man-months,
of the 1,000 man-months allocated, were utilized for local training. This is
due mainly to a substantial reduction in the training imparted to machinery
and vehicle operation and maintenance staff (from 600 to only 56 man-months),
based on an assessment of actual requirements. The study tour component was
fully utilized and found to be particularly useful. Throughout the project
period, there was a remarkably low degree of staff turnover and practically
all the staff trained continue to work for the project which together have
contributed to its success.
24. As a result of the DANIDA support to the project (see para 12), the
technical assistance (TA) component was also increased from 32 man-months to
79 man-months, of which 49 were utilized. The main reductions occurred in the
fields of seed testing (12 against 24 man-months) and assistance for
establishing virus-free nurseries for fruit trees and potatoes (4 against 16
man-months), as actual requirements were sufficiently covered. The inclusion
of assistance for establishing virus-free fruit tree/potato nurseries, in fact
replaced the assistance to NSC, originally planned at appraisal for
development of degree programmes in seed science and technology at four
agricultural colleges (viz. Shandong, Zhejiang, Narjing and Northwest). In
spite of this change in TA allocation, both Shandong and Zheijiang colleges
have developed courses on seed technology.
25. Studies. In accordance with a covenant of the Credit Agreement (see Part
III/7), the Government submitted to the Bank, a report on "The China Seed
Industry and Markets", incorporating the main findings of a number of studies
on seed supply and demand, marketing and prices, quality assurance and control
procedures. Although generally well-prepared, the report suffered from
analytical weaknesses thereby reducing its usefulness for planning purposes
and for purposes of designing a second phase project. It has provided,
however, a good basis to PMO for future continuous monitoring and evaluation
of the supply and demand situation, seed prices and quality.
26. Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The ERR for the project as a whole is re-
estimated at 72%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 38% (see Part III/6B
and Table 1). The difference is due mainly to the installation of additional
seed processing capacities which would result in higher than anticipated
output, mainly of processed hybrid rice seed, and consequent large increases
in paddy production (see Part III/6A).
27. Financial Rate of Return (FRR). At appraisal, the FRR for the project as
a whole was estimated at about 12%, with FRR's ranging between 8% to 17% for
individual seed centers. Data to re-estimate FRR for individual seed centers
were not available. The PMO, however, had prepared cost/benefit streams



8
covering production/processing of major seed categories with FRRs ranging
between 3 and 13% (see Part III/6C). Consolidating these data, the FRR for
the project as a whole has been re-estimated at 8% (see Table 6E). The main
reason for the lower than anticipated financial returns is the prevailing seed
price policy. At appraisal, Government had assured the seed centers that
retail prices for their fully processed seeds would be set at least 20% to 30%
above full production cost. This, however, did not materialize and margins
for major seeds such as corn, hybrid rice and cotton were only 13%, 14% and
10% respectively and for conventional rice seed, 12%. Only for the wheat
seed, the margin available to seed centers at 21% exceeded the lower limit of
20%. A more realistic price policy will be needed to ensure financial
viability of the seed centers and to permit them to create adequate reserves
for maintenance, repairs and replacement.
28. Seed Supply and Demand. At present, supply of quality seed meets demand
for most crops. Full capacity utilization, however, has not yet been reached
and a more active marketing strategy will have to be pursued to stimulate
demand. Presently, processed seeds are sold to farmers either directly by the
companies' distribution outlets (sales departments) or through the
intermediary activities of the extension service. These outlets are mostly
located at county level and some at the township level; none, however, in
smaller towns or villages. There is also no integration between the supply of
seeds and other modern inputs such as farm chemicals and fertilizers. To
improve marketing services, the distribution network would have to be expanded
at township and village levels and, if possible, combined with the provision
of related inputs and services. Also, on-farm demonstrations to spread
knowledge of the advantages of using processed seed vis-a-vis non-processed
seeds would need to be considerably expanded, in order to increase market
potential for quality seeds.
29. Proiect Impact. The project has contributed to increased production of
high quality seeds of major crops such as rice, corn and wheat and cash crops
such as cotton, vegetables and sugar beet. The use of quality seeds has
resulted in the adoption of lower seed rates per hectare and hence saving of
seeds; higher seed germination rates and survival of seedlings and higher crop
yields and production. Estimated crop yield increase of processed seeds over
unprocessed seeds is indicated below:
Crops:       Hybrid  Conven-    Hybrid    Wheat    Soy-    Cotton    Vege-    Sugar
rice  tional rice  com            beans    (lint)  tables     beet
Kg/ha:        316    251       233      257      262      66      3,100    3,000
30. At appraisal, it was estimated that, as a result of the project, annual
incremental production would include about 110,000 tons of rice, 160,000 tons
of corn and wheat and over 60,000 tons of cotton. Due to the increase in
processing capacity (see para 6.5) which is being mostly utilized for
processing of hybrid rice seed, incremental rice production at project closing
has been estimated at over 750,000 tons and is expected to reach up to 930,000
tons at full development (1996). Corn and wheat production is expected to
closely reach appraisal estimates. However, incremental cotton production
will only be about 20,000 tons per annum or about one-third of what was
estimated at appraisal (see Part III/6). The main reason is that assumptions
on yield increases for cotton at appraisal were over-optimistic.



9
31. Another significant impact of the project is that it has improved the
technological environment by introducing modern seed processing technology,
strengthening the public sector seed production and processing infrastructure,
and contributing to human resource development through in-service and
fellowship training. The social benefits, resulting from increased
productivity at farm level would also be considerable.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
32. The project has successfully established a public sector seed production
and distribution system. Marketing and pricing problems, however, affect the
profitability of che seed industry. Some seed centers took up non-generic
activities such as contract transplanting or hiring of earth-moving equipment
to improve their cash flow and .o ensure better returns on project investments
and to facilitate loan repayment. In order to make the seed industry more
cost-effective and financially viable, seed demand would have to be stimulated
(see para 28) and seed companies would need to be given greater autonomy in
determining selling prices which should not only cover the costs of seed
production, processing, storage and distribution but also provide for
maintenance, repairs and replacement of machinery and equipment (para 27).
33. Another area of concern is the unreliable supply of agro-chemicals and
fertilizers needed for seed production. Efforts, however, are underway to
improve the production and distribution of agro-chemicals and fertilizers.
Furthermore, the Government has decided to maintain the PMO in the future on a
permanent basis to provide continuous guidance and support to the seed centers
from the central level. In this situation, the project is likely to maintain
an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic life.
Bank Performance
34. The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory. At
appraisal, however, more attention should have been paid to changing
requirements in management, as a result of the inclusion of the seed
processing sector in the production responsibility system (PRS),tand the
shift from brigades to individual households which presents a much more
complex marketing task. A total of five supervision missions were fielded
between October 1986 and August 1990, relatively few in comparison with other
Bank-financed projects, but considered adequate in view of the close
supervision given by PMO and its good performance in project implementation.
35. The main lessons learned from the implementation of the project that may
be relevant to other Bank-financed projects are:
(a)     in planning seed development, the importance of on-farm production,
retention, and farmer-to-farmer exchange of seeds, particularly for
conventional rice, needs to be recognized (para 18);
Production Responsibility System is a generic name for various contracting arrangements designed to link incomes
and rewards more directly with the efforts of individual producers.



10
(b)     seed prices have to be set adequately high, to reflect all
investment and operational costs, including depreciation, to ensure
financial viability of the investment and sustainability of the
operation (para 27); and
(c)     an effective marketing strategy involving widely spread
distribution network and integration with supply of related inputs
and services, including on-farm demonstrations, is essential to
ensure demand-driven production of high quality seed (para 28).
Borrower Performance
36. The borrower performed well from identification through implementation.
The PMO was very effective in coordinating project activities and both the BSF
and NSC, which were to set up respectively eight and ten seed centers,
performee equally well. However, seed quality assurance and control aspects
should have been further enhanced, and management did not always succeed in
adjusting to the changes in the socio-economic environment requiring a more
innovative and progressive approach. Government's failure to adopt a
financially sound seed pricing policy has placed the financial viability and
sustainability of the seed industry in jeopardy.
37. The lessons to be learned by the Bank mentioned before (see para 35), in
principle also apply to the Borrower. Additional lessons of experience for
the Borrower are:
(a)     Strong central support and guidance and staff continuity are
essential for successful project implementation (paras 9 and 23).
(b)     Procedures for approval and acceptance of tenders have to be
streamlined to reduce start-up periods (para 19).
(c)     Tender documents should oblige the successful bidder to supply
detailed engineering designs prior to delivery, to allow timely
construction of associated civil works and facilitate installation
of equipment (para 19).
Prolect Relationship
38. The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good and
effective. Supervision missions were always fully supported and information
was provided in a satisfactory manner. At the Borrower's request, the project
period was extended by one year and IDA swiftly authorized the extension,
thus, allowing uninterrupted disbursement from the project credit. The
relationship between the Borrower and DANIDA, which provided supplementary
funding for training and technical assistance, was also good and effective
throughout the grant period of 1986 to 1989.



11
Consulting Services
39. Consulting services provided under the IDA credit and supplemented by a
DANIDA grant (see paras 12, 23 and 24) were found satisfactory and useful.
The performance of contractors supplying equipment and material was generally
satisfactory, although initially a number of installatioi and performance
problems occurred which delayed commissioning of processing Iines.  The only
major problem arose with the supplier of the cotton acid delinting equipment.
The performance bond had to be withheld and the concerned seed centers had to
make numerous engineering adjust[nents and repairs to make the plants
operational.
Project Documentation and Data
40. The SAR and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) which contained
covenants for the disbursement of the IDA credit, as well as the agreement
(signed on 26 March 1986) between the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark and
the Government of the People's Republic of China, which covered parallel
financing of additional technical assistance and training needs, were all well
prepared and provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower as well
as DANIDA, to monitor implementation progress.
41. The PMO prepared a comprehensive ex-post evaluation report of the project
(para 42), providing most of the data required for the preparation of the PCR,
and the PMO as well as the BSF and NSC were cooperat ve in providing
additional data and making arrangements for field visits needed for
preparation of the PCR.



12
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
42.   We have no objection on the Project Completion Report (PCR) of China
Seeds Project prepared by the Cooperative Programme mission of FAO.
Project Implementation and Results
43.   China Seeds Project was examined and authorized as one of China's second
agriculture project group financed by World Bank in April 1983. The China's
State Planning Commission (SPC) approved the feasibility study report of this
project on March 16, 1985. The Bank's Executive Directors approved of a
Credit of SDR 41.7 million (US$40 million equivalent) for China Seeds Project
on April 11, 1985. On September 2, 1985, China government ratified the Credit
Agreement on China Seeds Project. The Transfer Credit Agreement was signed by
the National Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation (AITC), on behalf of
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with provinces/regions in September 1985. On
October 31, 1985, China Seeds Project went into effect. It was planned to end
on December 31, 1989, but due mainly to the situation of project construction
and use of the Credit, the project's implementation period lasted one year
longer and ended on December 31, 1990.
44.   From 1985 to end of 1990, the total investment of Seeds Project was RMB
343.73 million (US$91.439 million equivalent). It was made by Bank loan
US$51.811 million (RMB 198.93 million equivalent) which accounts for 57.9% of
the total investment, and domestic fund RMB 144.8 million (US$39.628 million
equivalent) which accounts for 42.1%. On December 21, 1990, the Bank credit
has been fully disbursed in advance, the special account was closed on the
same day. Calculated in RMB, 125.8% of the domestic fund and 151.6% of the
total investment have been put in, compared with the correspondent targets
stipulated in SAR. The whole capital was scattered tc: buildings, RMB 70.067
million, accounts for 20.4%; farmland construction, RMB 51.189 million,
accounts for 14.9%; the procurement of facility and materials, RMB 220.4
million for 64.1%; training and consultants, RMB 2.078 million, accounts for
0.60%. Calculated in US dollars, 108.7% of the total investment has been put
in, compared with the target stipulated in the SAR.
45.   During the five years of implementation, 18 seed processing centers and
74 seed bases have been set up in 14 provinces/regions. To the requirement of
SAR, the bases and centers have been formed with a complete set of seed
production, seed processing, transportation and storage, and marketing. The
seed bases are located in widely differing agro-ecological zones. The main
crops concerned are: paddy rice, wheat, barley, corn, bean, cotton, rape,
sugarcane, beet, tomato, various fruits, etc.
46.   Supporting infrastructure of land leveling, soil improvement, irrigation
system has been completed. 133,900 ha of various seed fields have been built
up which makes up 110.8% of the appraisal plan. In 1990, 293,000 tons of
various seeds have been produced, including 127,000 tons of hybrid rice seed,
41,000 tons of hybrid corn seed, 62,000 tons of wheat seed, 36,000 tons cotton



13
seed, 21,000 tons of conventional rice seed, 2,500 tons of vegetable seed and
73,000 tons of potato seed. 210,000 tons of these seeds have been sold
directly by project agencies. The seeding area is 4,217,000 ha, which is
131.5% of the target stipulated in the SAR. During the period of project
implementation, 238 kinds of various qualified seeds have been introduced.
After testing, 147 of these have been reproduced and disseminated.
47.   Thirty-four modernized seed processing plants with 80s' upgrading
technology have been established. Forty-three sets of seed processing lines,
16 seed processing workshops, and 21 individual machines have been
established. The collective hourly capacity of processing lines is 78 tons,
and as a result, the yearly capacity is 78,900 tons. The collective hourly
capacity of individual machines is 24 tons, so the collective yearly capacity
is 20,000 tons. In the working season of 1990 to 1991, 103,000 tons of
various seeds have been processed at its full capacity. But only 50% of the
sold seeds are processed. The introduced facility operated well, due mainly
to the advanced specification and high quality performance. The quality of
processed seeds has enhanced. Compared with unprocessed seed, the output
increased by an average of 5%-10% per mu with processed seed, while 3-5 kg
seeds can be saved. Farmers can increase the output and enhance their income
notably by using processed seeds.
Project Construction
48.   There are 150 seed warehouses, 50,000 sq m with total capacity of 50,000
tons of seed; 15 low temperature and humidity warehouses, 4,253 sq m with
total capacity of 4,500 tons; 97,000 sq m of sunning ground; 59 laboratories
and testing rooms equipped with 25 whole sets of seed testing facility, 544
individual sets and 139 staff; 69 seed sales departments with an area of
14,000 sq m and 320 staff; 29,000 sq m of office area; 57,000 sq m of living
rooms; 538 various vehicles including 462 trucks with a total capacity of
1,819.5 tons. Farm machines, chemical fertilizer and pesticides have been
procured. All these seed warehouses, sunning ground, laboratories,
departments and vehicles, etc. of seed bases have been playing a supporting
role in the construction of seed fields and seed processing plants. So it has
guaranteed the seed transportation in time, seed storage, drying, processing,
testing and marketing. The quality of the seed has been improved effectively.
The seed production potentiality has been brought into its full play so as to
serve for increasing agriculture production.
Training and Consultants
49. All the training and consultants are combined with the activities of
project construction and bidding procurement, etc.  Under this project, 32
domestic training courses, in which 1,051 man-month attended, have been held.
1,123 persons took part in 28 various specialized conferences. Thirty-two
training groups, which collectively comprised 155 months, have been sent
overseas. Fifty-one man-month international consultants have been invited to
China. The Danish government provided 9.8 million Danish Kroner technical
assistance (TA) for the Seeds Project. The following items were provided by
this TA: 11 training groups of 43 man-month collectively; 3 studying groups
of 17 man-month collectively; 14 consultant groups of 38 man-month



14
collectively; 18 domestic traininrg courses which 560 man-month took part in.
The Sino-Danish Seed Development Project: has cultivated a n tmber of experts
for project management. equipment construction, etc.  All these people have
been the backbornes in project units at different. levels.  That is a great
finding we got through the TA for the implementations of other agricultural
projects financed by the Batik.
Benefit
50.   Since the project implementation, it is the social benefit that is most
remarkable.  Project units operate profitably.  From 1991, the incremental
output of various crops by using processed improved seeds are as follows:
115,000 tons of corn and wheat, 478,000 tons of rice, 15,000 tons of delinted
cottoni, 270,000 tons of beet, 330,000 tons of potato. The annual incremental
value is RMB f2D million.
51.   Project financial benefit:  The total profit of 20 financial items of
all the project units will rearh RMB 912 million in 30 years. Eleven items,
RMB 394 million are from seed production, processing and sales, account for
43.2% of total; the other nine items, RMB 528 million are from the sideline of
seed production, account for 56.8%. The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) of
this project is 14.529%. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of this project is
18.56%, excluding the benefit of incremental output from the diissemination of
improved seed planting. The pLoject units have the ability to repay the
principal and interests of the credit at present.
Evaluation, Findings and Conclusion
52.   Evaluation.  Through five years of implementation, various construction
of China Seeds Project has been completed, the objectives of the project have
been achieved. Seventy-four modern seed bases weri established in 18 seed
centers located in 14 provinces/regions, dealing with seed production,
processing, storage and transportation, tesfing and marketing. The total
production, processing and sale voiume of seeds of main crops increased
greatly. The seed quality has been improved significantly. All these make it
possible to meet the requirements of agriculture production. There are a
great number of seeds that are sold to non-prDject area every year and are
warmly welcomed.
53.   The social benefit of this project is significant.  The project units
win their reputation year by year. At present, the benefit gained from seed
production, seed marketing, etc., every year can be used to repay the
principal and interests. Also the benefit brings better working and dwelling
conditions for project staff. The economic sustainability of project units is
enlarged. During its construction and implementation, the progress of all
aspects is smooth and successful.
54.   Findings.   The Seeds Project is a relatively complex foreign capital
investment project with several systems work4ng together and much more
provinces involved in. The project units are scattered widely. Seeds Project
Leading Group (PLG) with three components (National Seed Corporation, State
Farm Bureau, and North China Plain Agriculture Project), led by State Farm



15
Bureau and Seeds Project Office, are formed under MOA. The implementation of
this project is well organized. Local leading groups and project offices at
different levels are also organizedI subsequently. From the very beginning of
the project implementation, management organization is well formed, project
staff in their position are playing various roles in the project. The leading
operating system that was formed by center and local levels are united,
effective and cooperative. That is the key point for the success of the
project.
55.     Fulfill every task by adhering to the SAR.  Tasks and goals stated in
the report are designed and confirmed by the Bank, which are a combination of
the national condition with general standard in developed countries regarding
seed production, processing, quality control and marketing. It is the only
way to realize "seed modernization" in the aspects of seed production,
breeding, processing, storing, testing and marketing to fulfill the targets in
SAR and, thereby to improve the quality and quantity of seed to a higher
level.
56.     It must be combined with the standard of local agricultural production
and technical level, social economy, as well as financial and managerial
status of the project units when making decisions stressed as follows:
construction scale, amount of loan, t3tal investment, technical introduction,
and equipment selection. It is very important to ensure the stability of the
project units. This principle may bring construction going smoothly after the
identification of project component and also may reach design scale and bring
great social and financial benefits after construction.
57,    The equipment, facilities, vehicles, farm machinery and various
materials for project construction should be procured in a manner which can
make the investment yield well.
58,     More attention should be made to the project management and personnel
training.  The project management ought to be enhanced to a higher level which
will bring greater project benefit.  Based on the perfect management
organizations at different levels, the organizations of production operation,
marketing and management should be set up in time to meet the requirements of
project construction and development. The emphasis of management should be
put on increasing the seed processing output, improving the seed quality,
winning steady reputation, developing market, improving the quality of project
staff through training. So that all project staff work actively, initiatively
and creatively, the project production management and operation levels will
bring to a new era, greater benefit will be achieved.
Problems and Sugzestions
59.   Compared with developed countries, the standard of technology, operation
and management of some project units in seed production, processing, storage,
testing and marketing is lower. In the coming years, we should work hard,
try to improve, and make them perfect. That is the way to catch up with the
international advance standard.



16
60.   The equipment, vehicle, material maintenance rule has not been set up in
some project units. In these project units, no special person was assignod to
check the equipment at regular basis, even worse, some of the equipment are
rusty or damaged. These units are asked to check out and make a detailed li'2-
of its property, including various equipment, vehicles and materials,  Ihe
tesponsibility system for equipment maintenance should be formed.
61.     Facility, vehicle and farm machinery imported in the project have been
used for four years and the spare parts need to be replaced. Some of the
spare parts procured with machines have been used. A batclh of spare parts has
been procured just before the end of project. Some of the spare parts will be
provided by project units themselves. The equipment maintenance is quite
important for machines to serve longer. Some of the imported facility or
spare parts can be substituted by domestic products. Through technical
transforming, some products can be made domestically. For the spare parts
that have to be imported, arrangements should be made to import them early.
62.     With completion of the project construction, the project goes into its
full development period. There are many works to be done in this benefit-
yielding period. In order to create the best result and gain the greatest
benefit, the key factor is to improve the project staff's working ability,
qualify them with modern science, technology and self cultivation of special
technology, management and operations, etc. If resources, technology and
personnel can be combined coordinately, the working standard of production,
management and operation of seeds bases will be raised. More quantity and
higher quality seeds of various crops will be produced to meet the requirement
of agriculture development.
Conclusion
63.   Seed bases have been planned and modernized seed centers have been
established in a relatively short period of time. It plays an effective role
in dissemination of improved seeds, improving seed quality, enlarging seed
quantity and prompting the increase of agriculture production. The
establishment of modern seed processing plants brings about 5%-lO% increase in
seed production and so taps the seed production potential. This project is
only a one time investment which will bring long-term benefit and produce
quick results. It is a kind of measure of "develop agriculture by science and
technology", which is warmly welcomed by farmers. The social benefit of this
project is remarkable. With government preferential policy, the principal and
interests can be repaid with the benefit of the project itself.
Comments on Part i
64.   We agree on the project review and evaluation summary.  The following
are a few modifications to the concerning data:
a.    "Project Results" in the "evaluation Summary": "78 seed bases"
should be "74" for 2 of them belong to 2, or more than 2 seed centers.
Actually, it is 1.
b.    "Technical Training and Consultants", see Part II (para 65 a)



17
c.     "Incremental rice production at full development, see Part II
(para 65 b)
d.    The success of Seeds Project is closely connected with the
support, help, supervision and guidance of the Bank.
e.    The Bank selecting Seeds Project as the second package of
agriculture development project shows its support to the modernization of
agriculture in China. This project meets the requirement of sustainablo
agriculture development and sets an example for modernization of seeds
industry in China. It also benefits the farmers.
f.    The appraisal report of the Bank on Seeds Project is both
scientific and conforms to tn.e reality in China, and can be used as a guidance
for Seeds Project.
g.    During the five years of implementation, Mr. Joseph Goldberg,
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division, China Department, Mr. William Smith,
former Chief of same division, and also officers involved in the project,
especially Mr. W.P. Ting (Senior Agriculturist), Mr. James Goering (formerly
in RMC), and Mme. Nancy Hwang (Senior Disbursement Officer, Asia Disbursements
Department) have all given great help to identification, evaluation,
procurement, bidding, evaluation of tender, importation of technology and
equipment, signing and implementation of contract, loan disbursements, credit
adjustments, supervision and evaluation. For several times the officials of
the Bank have brought to us the advanced technology and management experiences
in the world, helped to find collaborators and introduced concerning guidance,
regulations, rules and procedures of the Bank which ensured the smooth
implementation of the project and helped to train a number of technical staff
specializing in project management, seed production, processing, testing and
marketing management.
h.    It has taken eight years from preparation of this project to
completion. During this period, great changes have taken place in agriculture
production and the project areas. With the introduction of Production
Responsibility System (PRS) in seed industry and increasing commodity rate of
agro-products, the rural market and farming system have changed a lot which
could not be anticipated at appraisal. However, during the implementation,
the Bank has allowed some adjustments according to the situation in China.
These included appropriate scattering of project areas, reducing size of
processing equipment, allowing the contract of seed farms by individual
household, increasing the supply of fertilizer and agro-chemicals to seed
growers, allowing development of hybrid rice seeds in rice production areas,
improving the storage and transportation capacity during the seed procurement
and marketing process and increasing market spots in rural areas. These
adjustments, agreed by the Bank, helped seed centers and bases in the project
become modernized seed production bases for agriculture development in China.
i.    At present there are few farmers who still have not recognized the
benefit of processed quality seed of all crops in increasing production,
mainly because modernized seed processing industry has just been established
in China in recent years and farmers lack of experience in it. A great amount



18
of demonstrations and extension are needed. The success of this project,
especially the establishment of modern seed processing industry laid the basis
for demonstrations and extensions in a larger area. Through selling the
processed quality seed produced by seed production bases to farmers can help
them gain personal knowledge of the benefit of the processed seed. It is
proved by the increase of production and sales volume of processed quality
seed produced by seed production bases in recent years: for example, the
annual sales of processed quality cotton seed from 1987-1990 is as follows:
2,994 tons (1987), 9,663 tons (1988), 15,586 tons (1989), and 28,096 tons
(1990). If there was no modern cotton seed delinting processing factory, the
drastically increased demand of farmers could not have been met.
Demonstrations and extensions need to be strengihened, so that the quality of
processec seed of other crops can achieve the same results as that of cotton.
Comments on Part III
65.   The following are some modifications to the data in Part III, others are
correct.
a.    The training and consultants in Part III (4), "Project
Implementation" only reflect part of them, which are based on data provided by
DANIDA, while the others are excluded. The accurate data is stipulated in
part II (para 49).
b.    Part III (6), "Project Results":  The data of "Incremental Crop
Production" and "Estimate at Full Development" in Table A, "Direct Benefits",
should be the estimated data at the end of project, which is relatively
reliable (see part II (para 50).
c.    Part III, ERR in Table 6C, "Economic Analysis" is 72.01% which is
relatively high because it includes the benefit from the incremental crops
output brought by diss3minating processed seeds. In Part II (para 51), ERR is
18.56% which excludes the counterpart mentioned above. The ERR of this
project is about 50% according to adjustment in Part IL, (para 65b).
d.    We agree on FRR of 8% in Table 6E, "Financial Analysis".  However,
every project provinces/regions (except for Jiangsu Seed Company) has done
their own analysis on FRR, which is 12.7%-21.4%. According to the estimation
of the Project Office, the FRR is 14.6% which includes returns of project unit
other than from seeds.
Function of Borrower
66.   Starting from preparation to completion of the project, the Chinese
government (at all levels) paid a great attention to the project. The
government has provided all kinds of support and assistance in the area of
approval of the project, providing iocal counterpart fund, conditions and
terms of the credit, requisition of land, importation of technology and
equipment, overseas study tour, taxation, seed pricing, and repayment of loans
which ensure the success of the project.



19
67,   The project has also received support and help from State Planning
Commission, Ministry of Fir nce, Auditing Administration, Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Traue, General Customs Administration, Machinery and
Electric Equipment Import Approval Office of State Council, Ministry of
Chemical Industry, Bank of China, and other concerned ministries.
68.   The MOA carried out well all the responsibility during the project
preparation and implementation, which ensured the smooth implementation of the
project. Based on the decision of MOA, the PLG made a good performance in
decision-making, supervision and coordination in project implementation.
Under the leadership of PLC, the Project Management Office (PMO), together
with PMO at all levels, worked hard to implement the project successfully
according to the requirements of SAR.
69.   The study on the "China Seed Industry and Markets" needs to be further
carried out. Since the report was finished in 1988 when the project was still
in the process of implementation, it was hard to estimate and analyze the
impact of modernized seed industry on marketing, production, pricing and
quality control of seed at that time. It can only be carried out after
completion of the project to evaluate the present work and provide guidance
for future work. The same applies to seed pricing. Only after establishment
of seed processing factory and its capacity reaches a certain standard, can we
arrive at a reliable and scientific cost which provides basis for the national
government in deciding practical seed pricing. The seed distribution system
and seed quality control system in rural areas need further study. Though we
need to learn from foreign experiences, we should suit the situation in China
and at the same time develop with the modernization of rural economy. The
completion of the project laid the basis for the study.
70.   The cooperation between the Bank and Seeds Project Office is successful
and achievement is remarkable.  We hope the cooperation cat be further
developed.
Relations with Other Agencies
71.   The project also obtained assistance from the Danish Royal Government.
DANIDA has granted the project with technical assistance mainly used for
training of technical and management staff, study tour and technical
consultancy. The assistance to the project provided by Danish government
through Danish Agriculture Consultants Company is very successful. The staff
trained by' Danish TA has become the backbone in project implementation and
management.  Now the staff plays a very important role in the seed bases,
processing factory, testing laboratory and management institutions. Foreign
language training should be taken in advance in order to meet the requests of
overseas training.
72.   The project obtained help from concerned companies, institutes and
universities in the US, Japan, West Germany, Denmark, Canada, UK, Switzerland,
Australia, and Italy. These institutions provided a large amount of technical
materials to the project, held technical conferences, introduced advanced
technology and equipment, helped established seed processing factories and
laboratories, provided spare parts and received and accommodated training and



20
study tours. Although we have had some unhappy experiences with some
companies, we stuck to the principle of friendship, consultation, equality and
mutual benefit. We managed to overcome the difficulties brought by some
companies. We welcome everybody, who have helped the project to China again
and hope to continue to get help from them.
73.   The international procurement of equipment was handled efficiently by
International Tendering Company of China National Technical Import Corporation
(CNTIC). The procurement of all the modern equipment, instruments, vehicles
and materials for the project were very well organized by CNTIC and the
bidding, procurement, supply, installation, operation, claiming damages and
technical services was also very successful. CNTIC has passed on information
on a timely basis between suppliers and buyers and helped solve the dispute
between them which enabled the successful execution of the large supply
contracts. However, the process needs to be improved in future procurement
and contract implementation to ensure that all the suppliers efficiently
fulfill their obligations specified in the contract and avoid some suppliers
from finding excuses to refuse to fulfill the contract.



21
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Loan/Credit                             Purpose                   Approval       Status              Comments
Title                                                               Date          1/
North China Plain Project  To improve 200,000 ha in three provinces  6/82      Completed   Project supported inter alia
(Cr.1261-CHA)            affected by salinity and waterlogging                  (12/87)    three seed companies in the
through provision of drainage and                                 project area.
irrigation.
Heilongjiang Land        To develop 200,000 ha for production of    4/83       Completed   Project included provision of
Reclamation Project      foodgrains and soybeans including land                  (3/89)     eight processing plants (ranging
(Ln.2261/Cr. 1347-CHA)   reclamation and drainage, provision of farm                        4-6 t.p.h) and five smaller
machinery and technical assistance.                               plants for upgrading of seed
production and distribution.
Pishihang-Chaohu Area    To increase crop production in Anhui       6/85       On-going    Project includes expansion of
Development              Province, mainly through improvement of                 (6/92)     seed breeding facilities and
(Ln.2579/Cr. 1606-CHA)   irrigation and strcngthening of support                            upgrading of seed processing
services.                                                         equipment and bulk storage.
Northern Irrigation      To rehabilitate and complete irrigation and  3/88     On-going    Project included the upgrad-ing
Project (Cr.1885-CHA)    drainage systems serving about 250,000 ha              (12/95)    of a seed station and the
in Nei Manggol and Ningxia, including the                         establishment of nurseries.
provision of infrastructure and support
services.
Shaanxi Agricultural     To boost farm production and incomes       3/89       On-going    Project includes the construc-
Development Project      through investments in irrigation, rural               (6/95)      tion of nine seed processing
(Cr. 1997-CHA)           infrastructure and agricultural services in                       and certification plants together
39 counties of Shaanxi Province.                                  with modern pro-ceasing and
testing equip-ment.
Shandong Agricultural    To improve crop and animal production      5/89       On-going    Project includes upgrading of
Development Project      and coastal fisheries in the Shandong                  (12/94)    twelve county seed compa-nies
(Cr.2017-CHA)            Province.                                                         through provision of buildings,
machinery/
equipment, training and
working capital.
Hebei Agricultural       To increase production, productivity and   6/90       On-going    Project includes upgrading and
Development Project      marketability of agriculture, livestock and            (12/96)    strengthening of 18 seed farms
(Cr.2159-CHA)            aquatic products in the Northeast and                             and 17 ginneries, also
Hailongang areas.                                                 introducing acid delinting
technology.
Middle Yangtze Agricul-   To increase production and marketing of    8/90      On-going    Project includes the esta-
stural Development Project  fruit in the poor areas of Sichuan and              (12/95)    blishment of nurseries and
(Cr.2172-CHA)            Hubei provinces.                                                   budwood-mother orchards.
i/ Figures in brackets indicate the actual or expected closing date.



22
2. Project Timetable
Itecm                                                        Date Planned                              Actual Date
Preparation (prc-apprai4al)                                    May 1984                                 May 1984
Appraisal mission                                            August 1984                               August 1984
Credit negotiations                                          February 1985                             March 1985
Board approval                                                Marsh 1985                               April 1985
Credit signature                                                                                        May 1985
Credit effectiveness                                                                                  October 1985
Project completion                                            June 1989                                 June 1990
Credit closing                                              Decembcr 1989                            December 1990
Credit completion                                                                                    December 1990
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumtulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
in US$ minllion
IDA Fiscal Year                            1986               1987              1988                1989         1990    1991
Appraisal estimate (USS)                    6.0               22.0              36.0                40.0           -        -
Actual (US$)                                4.3 a/            28.8              33.3                42.2         50.8    52.0 b'
Actual as % of estimate                     71                127                91                 105           127      130
Date of Final Disbursement: December 21, 1990.
a/ Represents initial deposit into the Special Account.
b/ An IDA credit of SDR41.7 million was made available, which at the time of appraisal was equivalent to US$40.0 mnillion.
Due to the deterioration of the US$ against SDR over the project period, the USS equivalent increased to US$52.0 mnillion, which was
entirely disbursed.
4. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
Unit                           SAR              Actual
Target        Achievement
Buildings
Processing and storage                                                  mn2                       164,427               175,218
Laboratory and office buildings                                                                    50,001                 49,202
Staff housing                                                                                     110,482                57,083
Ancillary buildings                                                    lump                              -                73,218
sum
Seed Center Development
Land levelling and improvement                                          ha                         27,974                 34,750
Irrigation &  drainage                                                  km                           1,547                 2,017
Roads                                                                   km                              480                  437



23
Unit                   SAR          Actual
Target    Achievement
Well/pumping stations                                 no.                    170               68
Bridges and culverts                                  m                      422              202
Seed Processing Equipment
Lines                                                 set                     32               45
Single                                                no.                     45               21
Fann Implements
Tractors                                              no.                     114              57
Cultivators/laqd 1 -vellers                           no.                    176               69
Harvesters                                            no.                     49               28
Irrigation equipment                                  no.                     57               16
Others                                                no.                     82              176
Vehicles
Trucks (5-10 t)                                       no.                     153             254
Pick-ups (0.5 to 1.75 t)                              no.                     104             150
Vans/buses and other                                  no.                     83              124
Seed Inspection and Testing Equipment
Sets                                                  set                     25               25
Materials
Steel                                                MT                     5,539          12,000
Fertilizers                                          MT                    15,707          54,056
Pesticides                                           MT                      333              544
Others                                              lump                      -             1,201
sum
Training and Technical Assistance
Overseas training                                    m-m              326 (312)"              108
Local training                                       m-m              600 (1,000)             666
Study tours                                          m-m               57 (68)                 67
Technical assistance                                 m-m               32 (79)                 49
i/ Figures in bracket indicate revision of targets, as a result of DANIDA support.



24
5. Project Cost find Financing
A. Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate         Revised Estimate i/               Actual
Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total
.(                                                          S$ m ilin.....................................................................  (U S$     million)
Buildings             18.0      2.0     20.0      17.8      1.8      19.6     17.5      1.6     19.1
Seed farm             12.9      2.3      15.2     10.9      1.9      12.8      9.9      1.7      11.6
development
Processing and         2.1     18.8      20.9      1.8     16.5      18.3      2.2     17.3      19.5
laboratory
equipment
Farm equipment         2.4      13.3     15.7      2.5     14.1      16.6      7.0     33.6     40.6
and materials
Overseas and local     0.1      0.8       0.9      0.1      0.8      0.9        -       0.5      0.5
training
Technical                -      0.5       0.5       -       0.5      0.5        -       0.1      0.1
assistance
BASE COST             35.5     37.7      73.2     33.1     35.6     68.7        -        -
Physical               1.9      2.8       4.7      0.3      0.5      0.8        -
contingencies
Price contingencies    4.3      4.6       8.9      1.6      1.7       3.3       -         -
TOTAL                 41.7     45.1      86.8     35.0     37.8     72.8      36.6     54.8     91.4
1/ Revised June 1987, based on 1985 to March 1987 actual cost at the exchange rate of Yuan 2.8 = US$ 1.00
and the estimated remaining project cost from April 1987 to end-1989 calculated at the exchange rate of Yuan
3.7 = US$ 1.00.



25
B. Project Financing
Source                                             Planned                                    rFil
US$ million             (%)               US$ million            (M)
IDA (Total)                                40.0                  46                  52.0'                 57
- Equipment, materials anti vehicles       32.9                  38                  46.6                  51
- Training                                 0.7                   1                   0.6                    1
- Consultants' services                    0.4                   -                   0.1
Special account                          4.0                   5                   4.7                   5
- Unallocated                              2.0                   2                    -
DIOMESTIC                                  46.8                  54                  39.4                  43
TOTAI,                                     86.8                 100                  91.4                 100
1/ An IDA credit of SDR41.7 million was made available, which at the time of appraisal was equivalent to US$40.0 million. Due to thc
deterioration of the US$ against SDR over the project period, the USS equivalent increased to US$52.0 million, which was entirely
disbursed.
6. Project Resuits
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal                Estimate at               Estimate at
Estimate               Closing Date           Full Development
A. Incremental seed production (tons)
Rice                                                      14,570                     64,322                     79,138
Other grains                                              58,533                     42,186                     49,059
Cotton                                                     1,547                     25,688                     35,000
Sugar beet                                                 3,111                      1,350                      5,000
Vegetables                                                  981                       2,500                      3,000
Potatoes                                                 100,500                     73,612                     80,000
Sugarcane                                                 33,040                     19,250                     23,000
Fruit trees:
- '000 scions                                              6,809                       n.a.                        n.a.
- '000 seedlings                                           2,500                        288                        288
B. Incremental Crop Production (tons)
Rice                                                     110,000                    753,500                    930,000
Corn and wheat                                           160,000                    120,000                    140,000
Cotton                                                    60,000                     13,750                     19,250
Potatoes                                                  n.a. v                    331,000                    600,000
Sugarcane                                                   n.a.                     34,000                     41,000
Sugar beet                                                  n.a.                    270,000                    900,000
v The SAR provides only data on area to be planted with improved seeds but no data on incremental crop production.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimtate                PCR
Estimate
Economic Rate of Return:
Project as a whole                                                       38%                          72%
Conunents: The economic re-evaluation has been carried out in 1990 constant prices. For intemationally traded
commodities, the projected 1995 prices expressed in 1990 constant value based on the World Bank Commodity Price
Forecast were used. The actual investment and operating costs were adjusted to 1990 constant value using CPI.
Specific conversion factors were used for locally-manufactured machinery and equipment (1.5), steel (1.90),
earthworks, irrigation (0.79) and structu:es (1.02). Other local cost and prices of non-traded commodities were
adjusted by the SFC of 0.86. The substantial increase in the economic rate of return is due mainly to the
considerable increase in rice production as a result of higher than anticipated output in hybrid rice seed.



C.    Economic  Analysis
1985    1986    1981    1988       1969      1990     1991      199?      1993     1994      1995     1996      199)      1998     1999      2000     2001    2no        2043      20D
2ncremental Productlon (toneS}
Hybrid Corn                             0       0   12s59   se245    72171    86624    89000    91316    93175         96128    98504   100880   200880  IDO08    100880   100880   100E80 1OM       880   10068O    I0088O
Uht                                     0       0   13SIS   20576    27119    34159    35016    35993    36910    318?1    38144    39661    39661    39661    39661    19661    39661    39661    39661    39661
Hybrid Rice                             3       0  287159  429499   608214   142034   ?13809   805583   81')5B   869132   900901   93)681   932681   93)682   93)681  932681   93)60? 93682   93)61 3681
Conventlial Rice                       0      123      912    1169      9599    5ISOS    11522    11538    225B IISS     5       2iIS8B    11604    11604    11604    11604    11604.   11604    11604    11604    11604
Cotton                                  0       0        0    3300      8250    I3158    14661    15583    16501    2141)    28334    19250    19250    19?50    09S50    19)             19)50    19?50    19250    19250
Vegetables                              0       0    326J    6535       9682    14850    15345    25840    16335    16830    213)s    21870    21820   2179?           1820    11820    218?0    I1820    li280    21780
SugArbeet                               o       0        0  114501   124622   )1JS   1'S19f   4801S'  585318   690318   '95439   900500   900500   900S00   90000   900500   900500   900S00   93050O 90SOO
Potato                                  0   84420   96480  204617   2560D?   331254   316045   420836   4656)1   510418   555209   6000D0   600000   600000   6000D0   600000   6OOOOO   600OO0   6000C0   600000
Sugarcane                               0    1625   19593   21352    27451    14356    35463    36512    3761B    3818S    39893    42000    41000    41000    41000    41000    41000    41000    41000    4200
Soybean                                 0       0    1619   1290        231'      2908     3005      3102     3199      3295      3392     3489      3489     3489      3489     3489      3489      31489    3489      1459
Incremental Value (32ll. Tuanl
Hytbrid Corn                            0 O .00   53.69   43.8)    54.13    64.91    66.15    68.53    70.31    12.10    13.8a    15.66    15.66    75.66    15.66    15.66    15.66    15.66    15.66    15.66
Whea                                   o0 0.00 4.03   21.36    28.15    35.46    36.41    31.36    38.31    39.26    40.2)    42.2'    41.12                41.1      42.1    41.17    42.1        41.1)    41 11   41A.J
1y6brld Rice                            0    0.00  111.18  265.00   424.61   451.83   411.44   491.04   516.65   536.?5   555.86   515.46   575.46   515.46   515.46   S)5.46   515.46   515.46  S1.46   515.46
Conventional Rice                       0    6.09    8.18   65.41   800.8       96.81    91.02 9515    91.29    91.43    91.51    91.11    91.12    91.12    91.12    91.12 96.12    91.12 99.12    91 33
Cotton                                 a    0.00    0.00    2.3)        3.30      5.50     5.81      6.23     6.60      6.9'      1.33     1.10      I 10     1.10      1.10      1.10     1.10      1.10     1.10      1.10
Vtgetabito                              0    8.00    1.31    2.61       3.81      5.94     6.14      6.34     6.53      6.13     6.93      1.13       .1.3     13       1.23     ' 13      7.13     J.13      1.23      ).I3
Sugarbeet                              O    0.00    0.00   20.15    21.93    41.54    66.03    84.53   103.02   12I.S   140.00   258.49   1S8.49   158.49   158.49   IS8.49  I25.49   158.49'  258.49   158.49
Potato                                 0   25.31   28.94   61.39    16.8    99.38   112.81   I26.25   139.69   153.13   166.56   280.00   280.00   180.00   260.00   180.00   180.00   280.00   180.00   2e6.00    l
Sugartoat                              0    0.58    1.49    2.08        2.09     2.61      2.10      2.78     2.86      2.95     3.03      3.12      3.12     3.12      3.1?     3.12      3.2)     3.22      3.12     3.12    3'
Scyoean                                0    0.00    2.34    2.30        3.36     4.21      4.35      4.49     4.63      4.17     4.91      S.05      5.05     5.05      5.05     5.05      sos      sos       s.OS     5.05
TOTAL VAttg (3221. Vuanj                  0   31.99  281.17  485.45   699.12   820.31   817.52   930.70   985.90  1041.09  1096.29  1151.48  1151.48  1151.48  2152.48  2252-48  2251.48  1151.48  1151.48  IISI.48
(CONION1C I3VtST2413l COSIS
Butidings                           5.06   63.19   20.44    3.72        3.112    0.80      - 
Seed Form OeveloPae_t               2.10   21.60   10.40    4.38        0.26    11.14      -         -           *                -        *         -        -         -         *        *         -        -
Processing and tab. EquIpment       0.56   86.28    4.34    4.49        1.49    15.20      -         -        *                   .        -
lralnlng                            0.00    1.16    0.31    0.38        0.00     0.40      -
lecinical AsststaIt                 0.00    0.33    0.31    0.13        -         .        -
Sub-total                        1.)  169.216   35.80   13.10        4.86    31.54
OPE3AMlitG CUOiS                      12.66   26.18  28f.59  315.48   429.00   438.79   413.33   489.83   521218   5566.1    572.44   5817.9   586.08   589.60   589.16   592.24   594.11   596.64   598.51   600.11
01 IA (COMIC COIlSTS                  19.38  195.34  31S.39  328.58   433.86   416.33   a33.33   4819.83   51.28   556.1   572.44   s87.29   586.08   589.60   589-16   592.24   594.11   596 64   598.52   600.12
I2CR. 11  tc0ltC ISilCilFlIS       .19.38 -163.35  *31.22  156.81   265.26   343.98   402.18   440.81   4641?2  484.38   523.1S   564.19   565.40   561.88   562.3?   559.24   557.317   554.84   552.91   550.11
1fRS                          72.011



27
D. Financial Impact
Appransal Estimate               Actual
Finacial rates of returu:
Project as a whole                                                         12%                         8%
For individual seed centcr                                                8-17'Z                       n.a.
Comments: FRRs were carried out in 1990 constant prices. Data to re-estimate the financial rates of return for
individual seed centers were not available. Based on cost/benefit streams compiled by the PMO, FRRs for the
processing of selected individual seed categories were estimated as follows:
Hybrid rice seed                                             10%
Cotton seed                                                   9 5'c
Vegetable seed                                                3 %
Potato seed                                                  13 %
Fruit seedlings                                               7 %
E. Financial Analysis (Yuan million)
Income               Operating      |       lovestment                Net
Cost                  Cost                  Benefits
1985                           -                     11.2                    8.7                 -19.9
1986                          32.7                   24.7                  256.7                 - 248.7
1987                         292.0                  262.7                   44.8                 - 15.5
1988                         331.6                  509.7                   28.6                 -206.7
1989                         434.6                  397.7                   42.8                 - 5.9
1990                         501.1                  407.4                   83.4                  10.3
1991                         494.4                  440.7                    -                    53.7
1992                         511.9                  456.7                                         55.2
1993                         544.7                  486.5                                         58.2
1994                         579.4                  519.8                                         59.6
1995                         603.7                  533.8                                         69.9
1996                         612.0                  548.9                                         63.1
1997                         609.5                  548.1                                         61.4
1998                         609.6                  551.9                                         57.7
1999                         611.7                  551.3                                         60.4
2000                         615.1                  554.6                                         60.5
2001                          616.7                 556.6                                         60.1
2002                          618.7                 559.2                                         59.5
2003                          619.7                 559.4                                         60.3
2004                          624.6                 561.2                                         63.4
2005 to 2014                  626.0                 563.7                                         62.3
= *10%



28
F. Sttdies
Study                                       Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                                  Status
China Seed Industry and Market              To serve for planning purposes and to provide a                Completed
basis for designing a second-phase project in                  June 1989
China's seed industry development programme.
Comments: The study concentrates on seed supply and demand, marketing and prices, as well as quality assurance
and control procedures. The report suffers from analytical weaknesses but provides a good starting point for future
work.
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant         Subject                                 Date of Compliance          Status        Cemments
Credit 3.03      Section 3.03. Thc Borrower shall carry           -                Covenant
out the training under Part E of thc project                   complied with
in accordance with .. program agreed with
the Association.
Credit 3.04 (a)    Section 3.04 (a): Carry out the studies     12/31/87            Covenant        Report submitted to Bank in
under Pan G of the project, in accordance                       complied with    July 1988.
with the terms of reference and time
schedules acceptable to the Association;
and Section 3.04 (b): Prepare and furmish
to the Association not later than December
31, 1987, a report including the main
findings of such studies in light of the
objective of the project.
Credit 4.01 (b) (ii) Section 4.01 (b) (ii): Furnish to                             Covenant
Association, as soon as available, but in                      complied with
any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by the said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.



S. Use of Bank Resources
A Stldl  S  (stal cksi
Stowe of FojeaF FY3                            F8YM 05                                N              F                  FY                 FY9                F                 cYst             Total
Cpde
llvoughappealsaJ                 06             25.7               3.5                                                                                                                            29 a
Appralsal Utough                 -               5.3              53.8                -                 -591
board approval
Boed approval
Uwough eflectlveness
Stipervislan                     *                *                9.5              14.7              21 4               6 3                9 7                2.1               267             92 4
TotW                             0.6            31.0              66.8              14.7              21.4                a.3               97                 2.1               267             1113
B. MIssion
PlssionType                         K4 IYw 11                   Nto. alfPCrso   5             Days In Fkld         Speda-a- Itpexed 21            Petmance Petkg 31              Types otPRoblems
Pre-appraisal                           5S84                           5                          21                        A.Ll.ST.E
Appraisal Misslon                        8)54                          3                          23                        Ag ST.E
Superlslan 1                            10)58                         2                            6                          A.E                           1
2                             64B7                         3                            16                        A.E.ST
3                             am58                          2                           14                         A.ST
4                             6J89                          1                           13                          ST                           1
5                             8)90                          1                           16                          ST
11 Date ot return to hladquadtess.
2V A - AgrlcLitwuasl; E - Economist: I - instuuoisb Speclist; L - Laon Olfcer; ST * Seed Tectmoxoglst.
31 1- Problem-kee or mbino problems. 2 * Modesate problems. 3 - Maor ptoblems.
4/ MIssion was accomparded by a DAMDA represeMaeive to review technical assistnce.



IBRD  232L8(
U. S. S. R.
U. '.S. R.
Harbin
MON()N   I (   )IIn                                                                           'i iun
lrunmqi                                                                                                                                  - 
r Shensang                                                   JAPAN
_iV. |C                                                                                                                               "1* *  YinchLi  ShijiazKD.PR.
m sohhot                                                     O
AFGHAMIIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            E/IGKREA,
-                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tipnjin
/                       ~~~~~~~~Shijiazhuang                             ,.REP. OF
0                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOREA
This map has been prepored by                                                                                                                                  Tavun
The World Bank's stafH exclvsively                                                                                                                              Taivuan
for the convenience of readers
and  is  exclusively  for  the                                                                                      X i nJinan
Internal use of The World Bank                                                                                .      Inng
Group The denominations used                                                                                                                                                      4
and  the  boundaries  shown
part of 1' ~~~~~~~~e  arId Ban ~~~~~~~Oroup ~~~LanzhoujF*
on  this  ma   do   not imp 1   on  the                            .                              ,                             La z o                                                                                           \                                              is
paort of The World Bonk Group,-f,* 
any jud ement or. the legatl                                                                                                                                   Zhengzhou
status o any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                                                               i,.
such boundaries                                                                                                                                     \ x * \  "  Xi'an                              5
O'Na(Ijing  I 5hanghai
Heft/          '- .k'GHAl
N l\;i  p             iChengdu                                                                    Hguhangu
LhesaWun
NEPAL
.  tu  J   i    s      eNanchong
CHINA                     >   5x  -- N                 I                     . 4^3  1  ~~~~~~~~~~     ~ ~~ ~ ~              ~~~~~Changsh.<  -  '    -;
CHINA                                                               ' 
SEEDS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                               u z    1' ^'thou
Location Of Project Institutions                                                         |ACvan,
SEED CENTER PRODUCTION
A'ID PROCESSING LOCATIONS
-   .--  GRAND CANAL
o       SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                   Guangzhou
OS       PROVINCE CAPITALS                                        iS                     _
@   NATION4AL CAPITAL                                         z                                                                                OGKONG, U.K.
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
>                                     t                                       ()1,,ll :11 ' 123Macao, Port.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LAOPE           S                              Hikou                                                          PHILIPPINES
<  11115 0  ,1  *  3  |  ,     .         THAILAND<)                     \             i,,l).,. jn   < 1.0 \'' 0' :                                       !                                           S Em
SFPTEMBER 1991



