Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18761
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(PROISS)
[CR. # 2092-BOI
December 28, 1998
Sector Management Unit
Human Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit    =    Boliviano (Bs.)
US$1.00  =    Bs. 5.66
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
DL             Decentralization Law
GOB            Government of Bolivia
IDA            International Development Association
INE            Instituto Nacional Estadistico
MHD            Ministry of Human Development
MPSSP          Ministerio de Previsi6n Social y Salud Publica
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NSH            National Secretariat of Health
PAHO                Pan-American Health Organization
PHC            Public Health Center
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PPL            Popular Participation Law
PROISS         Proyecto Integral de Servicios de Salud
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SIF            Social Investment Fund
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SU             Sanitary Unit
TGN            Tesoro General Nacional
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director  Isabel GTuerrero
Sector Leader        Evangeline Javier
Task Manager - Proj.   Luis Pisani
Task Manager - ICR   Jennifer Leach



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
December 28, 1998 ............................................................
PREFACE ............................................................                                                                                                  I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................11
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................................................                                                                 111
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ............................................................1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TIIE PROJECT ...........................................3
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................6
BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................................7
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................................8
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................................9
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................................................9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FtUTUlRE OPERATIONS ..........................................9
PART 11. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........................................................                                                                           12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...........................................................                                                                    12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................................                                                                13
Table 3: IBRD Project Timetable ...........................................................                                                                    13
Table 4:  Loan  Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................................................4 14
Table 5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................................................                                               15
COCHABAMBA ...........................................................                  .                                                                          1 5
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...........................................................                                                     19
Table 7: Studies Completed ...........................................................                                                                         19
Table 8A: Global Project Costs ...........................................................                                                                     20
Table 8B: Global Project Financing ...........................................................                                                                 20
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................... 20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................                                                                21
Table 11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ...........................................................                                             22
Table 13:  Bank Resources:  Missions                                                 .     ............................................................ 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2092 BOLIVIA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Health
Development Project (PROISS) for which Credit 2092-BO in the amount of SDR 15.7 million
(US$20 million equivalent at appraisal) was approved on February 9, 1990, signed on February
22, 1990, and declared effective on September 21, 1990. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998
after an extension of 18 months. The credit was not fully disbursed; the last disbursement took
place in October 1998, and the balance of US$25,761 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Nuria Homedes and Jennifer Leach, Consultants, with assistance
from Aracelly Woodall, Task Assistant. The ICR was reviewed by Evangeline Javier and John
Newman (LCSHD). The Borrower did not provide a separate report.
Preparation of this ICR is based, inter alia, oni the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission,
which took place in November, 1997; the Credit Agreement and amendments thereto; supervision
reports; the mid-term review; correspondence between the Association and the Borrower;
interviews with Government officials, donor agencies and consultants, and PROISS reports.



ii
INTEGRATED HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2092-BO)
BOLIVIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.   This project was approved by the Board on February 8, 1990, signed on February 22, 1990,
and declared effective on September 9, 1990. At the time of appraisal total project costs were
estimated at US$38.6 million equivalent, of which US$20 million was to be financed by the IDA
credit, with the balance to be financed by the Government of Bolivia, public regional entities, and
the Dutch Government. This project required 7 years and 9 months for completion, which is
longer than the average completion period for social projects (the project was granted extensions
amounting to two additional years). The final disbursement was effected in October, 1998.
Project Objectives
ii.   The main objective of the project was to improve maternal and child care in Bolivia by: (i)
increasing the availability of basic health services for pregnant and lactating women, children
under five years of age, and women at reproductive risk in the urban and peri-urban areas of La
Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba; (ii) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
health services in Bolivia through the development of adequate human resources in the MPSSP
and other institutions providing health services; and (iii) strengthening central policy making and
coordination of investments in health, within a more coherent institutional framework and a
national health sector development program, that in turn should devolve greater operational
responsibility to regional levels.
iii.  Project Content: In order to attain these objectives, the project included three basic
components: (a) Service Delivery (US$29.6 million) including financing for (i) civil works
(US$8.3 million); (ii) services (US$7.6 million- to cover the cost of incremental personnel and
the incremental salary of SU directors); (iii) a maintenance program (US$1.9 million); (iv)
vehicles, equipment and materials (US$5.4 million); and (v) essential drugs and medical supplies
(US$6.4 million). (b) Human Resource Development (US$ 1.0 million) to finance: (i) induction to
project objectives and procedures, strengthening of the MPSSP system for personnel supervision
and in-service training, and improvement of interinstitutional coordination; (ii) basic skills and
technical training (pre-service or in-service training); and (iii) training of midwives, and health
education campaigns. (c ) Institutional Development (US$6.5 million) including: (i) the
restructuring of the MPSSP; (ii) the administrative rationalization of the MPSSP; and (iii) the
strengthening the management of the financial, human and physical resources.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   PROISS has financed the construction of 77 health centers, several first level hospitals',
and the rehabilitation of 63 health centers; the construction of regional administrative offices for
Cochabamba, El Alto and La Paz; the construction of 7 district offices; and the construction of a
national warehouse for pharmaceuticals in El Alto and two regional warehouses (one in
Cochabainba and one in Santa Cruz). The Project also contributed to the improvement in quality
of services through its focus on the provision of appropriate equipment, and its development of a
maintenance program, essential drugs pharmacies in most healtlh centers, dental care, and total
quality management. In addition, the PROISS also has been instrumental in encouraging the
redistribution of human resources from hospitals to primary care facilities. It was also successful
in assisting in the restructuring of the MPSSP in response to the New Sanitary Model. It should
be noted that, in contrast to the follow-on Health Reform project, the PROISS focused on the
supply-side of health services, rather than the demand-side (the economic and cultural barriers to
health use).
v.   As indicated in Table I of the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the project was
rated satisfactory in every major area. This result was achieved despite a very difficult political
and administrative environment that plagued the project. The network of primary health care
services has been substantially extended, most health centers have an essential drugs pharmacy,
about half of them have a dental chair, and all of them have been well equipped. Folders with all
the information on the infrastructure of the health establishments constructed/rehabilitated by
PROISS, along with complete inventories, have been given to the municipalities. The expansion
of the PHC network, along with the improved quality of services (as measured by the quality
assurance survey) and, during the last two years, the maternal and child health insurance (though
not part of the project) have all resulted in increased utilization of services. It is likely that this
increased utilization has, at least in part, led to the improvement in infant health indicators
nationwide. Another remarkable achievement was the redistribution of Human Resources
towards Primary Health Care and the efforts to assist professionals at the operational level to
better do their work.
vi.   The Institutional Strengthening Component was carried out diligently. The MPSSP was
restructured and PROISS coordinated well with the central authorities. However, the activities
under this component have been the least effective due to: (i) the rapid changes in the
administrative structure of government, which rendered some policies and procedures supported
by PROISS obsolete; (ii) PROISS slowness in adapting to broader administrative and political
changes; (iii) PROISS inability to complete, validate, document and transfer its experiences; (iv)
pressure to use Project resources and hire personnel and consultants for purposes not specified in
the agreement, which in turn generated friction and misunderstandings with central and regional
authorities; (v) poor quality of consultancies due to poor terms of reference and/or poor selection
of consultants; and (vi) high personnel turnover within PROISS and also at the central, regional
and district levels.
vii. PROISS was successful in reaching many of its objectives; however, certain weaknesses
limited the scope of their accomplishments. The Project went through periods of weak leadership
(end of 1991 through beginning of 1995; mid-1996 through November 1997) and IDA had to
invest a substantial amount of resources to ensure compliance with Bank procedures. The MTR
marked a substantial change in Project management (see Appendix) which resulted in improved
Project performance. This positive change arose from an agreement between IDA and the
' The PROISS was unable to provide the exact number.



iv
PROISS to alter the managerial strategy of the project-within the context of the existing Credit
Agreement-including greater coordination between central and regional levels, the creation of
regional operating plans, greater decentralization of decision making, and a change in IDA's
supervision methods. Unfortunately, changes of personnel in key positions reverted the process.
The Administration and Finance Department of the PIU was particularly weak throughout the
entire life of the Project and it was reflected in: (i) problems with cash-flows and delays in paying
contractors; (ii) delays in transferring funds to the regions and in receiving the justification from
the regions; (iii) not having up to date inventories; (iv) delays in the procurement of goods and
services; and (iv) non-adherence to the Bank's procurement policies. These weaknesses curtailed
Project effectiveness.
viii.  PROISS has proven that Bolivia knows how to manage its resources to improve the health
conditions of women and children. However, the politicization of the sector, as expressed in the
high levels of personnel turnover and massive dismissals of professionals linked to PROISS that
accompanied government changes, threatened the ability to maintain and build on the skills and
procedures developed by the Project. The likelihood of sustainability of the service delivery
component varies: PROISS has had an important impact in the provision of appropriate
infrastructure for the delivery and administration of health care services, and for the storage and
distribution of pharmaceuticals. The inclusion of essential drugs pharmacies, dental care
services, and the use of total quality management strategies are innovative elements that PROISS
successfully introduced in the Bolivian public health sector model. The major threat to the
sustainability of the service component is the tremendous turnover of personnel at the
administrative and operational level, with the corresponding loss of institutional memory
ix.   IDA performance was satisfactory at all stages of the project cycle, as it properly addressed
the serious constraints limiting efficient health service delivery, correctly highlighted sector
policy issues, and paid attention to the need for training programs, particularly management
training. However IDA underestimated the complexity of implementing such an ambitious
program, and while promoting the decentralization of decision-making to the regions failed to
establish the mechanisms through which the regions could manage Project resources for the
implementation of their regional plans.
x.    Borrower performance was also satisfactory for both identification/preparation and
implementation, as may be seen in the achievement of many of the Project objectives. It is useful
to note some of the challenges to the Project's success, however, including: (i) the importance of
political climate over the technical capacity of Project personnel; (ii) the politicization of the
Project, particularly notable in the high levels of staff turnover, regional pressures, and strains
produced by pressures to use Project funds for other health activities; (iii) the lack of sectoral
coordination, which produced inefficiencies and duplications; and (iv) poor coordination by the
SIF.
Summary of Key Findings and Lessons Learned
*  The PROISS experience demonstrates that it is vital to include all players involved in the
development of the sector in Project preparation and supervision. This includes beneficiaries,
local level authorities, and all staff levels, among others. This participation should be
accompanied by decentralized decision-making and decentralized financial resources.
*  Project objectives, activities, and process and outcome measures must be clear to all those
involved in project execution, at both central and regional levels; implementation procedures
must be sufficiently flexible to adapt to rapid changes in government policies and structure.



V
These objectives should be reflected in the operational plans developed at the national,
regional and local levels (which should then be monitored). In addition, project objectives
and design should be simplified, particularly in a country with weak institutions and a
dynamic political process.
*  The MTR experience demonstrates that the flexibility of project design and credit agreement
allowed quick, extensive changes to be made, drastically improving project performance.
*  The creation of an organizational culture based on participation, open dialogue, team work,
client orientation and adoption of total quality management techniques led to the most
prosperous period for the Project (the MTR through mid-1996). The productivity of that
period clearly reflects the value of this approach.
*  Unless there is very strong commitment from high levels of Government, the establishment
of sub-contracts between different Government agencies should be avoided, as they are very
difficult to enforce (as seen in the PROISS' problems with the SIF).
*  Given the weaknesses in the administrative and financial department, as well as the
complexity of the procurement of goods for the health sector, it would have been useful to
have enlisted the services of an internal auditor with experience in Bank procurement
procedures. This is particularly true in the context of greater decentralization of Project
functions.
*  With a view to better guaranteeing the sustainability of the Project's gains, and to capitalizing
on the technical assistance provided through the Project, it is crucial to ensure that terms of
reference are well written, that only qualified consultants are hired (even in the face of other
pressures), that construction guides for health centers are developed and applied early in the
Project, and that procedural manuals are actually completed--preferably also early in the life
of the Project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2092-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Project Objectives and Description
1.   Project Objectives: The main objective of the Project was to improve maternal and child
care in Bolivia by: (i) increasing the availability of basic health services for pregnant and
lactating women, children under five years of age, and women at reproductive risk in the urban
and peri-urban areas of La Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba; (ii) improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of health services in Bolivia through the development of adequate
human resources in the MPSSP and other institutions providing health services; and (iii)
strengthening central policy making and coordination of investments in health, within a more
coherent institutional framework and a national health sector development program, that in turn
should devolve greater operational responsibility to regional levels.
2.   Project Components: In order to attain these objectives, the Project included three basic
components: (a) Service Delivery (US$29.6 millioni) including financing for (i) civil works
(US$8.3 million); (ii) services (US$7.6 million- to cover the cost of incremental personnel and
the incremental salary of SU directors); (iii) a maintenance program (US$1.9 million); (iv)
vehicles, equipment and materials (US$5.4 million); and (v) essential drugs and medical supplies
(US$6.4 million). (b) Human Resource Development (US$1.0 million) to finance: (i) induction to
Project objectives and procedures, strengthening of the MPSSP system for personnel supervision
and in-service training, and improvement of interinstitutional coordination; (ii) basic skills and
technical training (pre-service or in-service training); and (iii) training of midwives, and health
education campaigns. (c ) Institutional Development (US$6.5 million) including: (i) the
restructuring of the MPSSP; (ii) the administrative rationalization of the MPSSP; and (iii) the
strengthening the management of the financial, human and physical resources.
3.   Linkage with Sector Strategies: The Project in line with IDA's overall strategy for support
to the Government of Bolivia's (GOB) objective of laying the basis for sustained economic
growth and improving the living conditions of the bulk of the population. IDA's strategy for
assistance in the social sectors is focused on long-term institutional strengthening, development
of appropriate sector policies and strategies, concentration of resources on primary health and
education, and extension of coverage through financing for both public and private agencies. As
part of this strategy, IDA has financed two credits for the Emergency Social Fund (ESF) (nearly
US$36 million in total), two credits for the Social Investment Fund (SIF) (US$60 million in
total), the Education Reform Project (US$40 million), the Integrated Child Development Project
(PIDI) (US$50 million), and the Rural Sanitation Project (PROSABAR) (US$20 million). A
Health Reform Project is currently being defined.



2
4.   Assessment of Original Project Objectives: The Project objectives were sound and in
accordance with IDA's overall strategy in Bolivia. The target population was correctly selected;
infant and maternal mortality rates in Bolivia were almost twice the average for the region.
Concentrating the resources in the most populated urban areas was a good start given that the
health sector was not developed and the managerial capacity of the Ministry of Health was
considerably weak. Improving the skills and salaries of public health workers was crucial to
enhancing the efficiency of the system; and finally, the development of the institutional
framework, including the devolution of operational responsibilities to the regional level, was
important for the sustainability of the sector and the consolidation of Project's achievements. It
should be noted that, in contrast to the follow-on Health Reform project, the PROISS focused on
the supply-side of health services, rather than the demand-side (the economic and cultural barriers
to health use).
5.   Background: The Project was originally to be managed by a 7 person Project Unit (PU)
reporting to the Planning Directorate of the MPSSP; in addition there would be a 3 person team
assigned to the Project in each sanitary unit (SU) within1 the Project catchment area. A set of
professionals, normally from the MPSSP staff, would also work ifor the PU on a part-time basis or
during specific periods of time. The civil works component was to be managed by SIF and the
procurement by a procurement agent, as required by Bolivian legislation at the time. However, a
series of changes to Bolivia's legal framework required alterations to the Project: the Health
Ministry became a Health Secretariat under the Ministry of Human Development (MHD) (1993).
In 1994 the Popular Participation Law (PPL) transferred to municipalities the resources and
responsibility for the construction, maintenance, equipment and provision of supplies for all
social sector infrastructure, while the MHD retained control over all human resources. The
Decentralizationi Law (DL, 1995) transferred the responsibility for human resources to the
Departments. In 1996 a universal maternal and child care insurance was approved and
implemented; and in 1997, as a result of a change in Government, the Health Secretariat was
transformed into a Health Ministry.
6.    At least partially in response to the above-mentioned chan,ges, the Project underwent
several organizational changes. In March 1991 the PU was transferred from the Planning
Department to the Health Minister's Office. By the end of 1992 the Regions were entrusted with
the administration of a limited amount of the Project resources (as justified in their regional
plans). In February 1992 it was agreed that no more salary supplements were to be paid to public
servants and that the PU needed to incorporate additional consultants to assist in the supervision
of the Project. In 1994 IDA authorized PROISS to directly administer infrastructure projects for
up to a maximum of US$15,000 each. As a result of the Mid Term Review (MTR) the Project
hired a two-person start up team for each one of the SU and a Product Manager.3 During the
summer of 1995 the supervision of the Project was decentralized to the Resident Mission. In
December 1996 a one year extension was granted to allow for the completion of works and the
consolidation of quality assurance and maintenance programs. And finally, an additional 6
months extension was granted on January 8th, 1998 to allow SIF to complete the infrastructure
component.
2 Bolivian legislation was later changed (1995) and even international procurement had to be done by the
PU.
3 The tasks of the start-up teams included: (i) liaise with health centers, the community, the district and
regional administrators and the PU; (ii) assist health centers in carrying out the activities included in the
operational plan; and (iii) assist the PU and the regional teams in writing the quality of service protocols.
The Product Manager was to liaise with the municipalities and offer them technical assistance to undertake
the responsibilities entrusted to them by the PPL.



3
II.   Achievement of Project Objectives
7.   As indicated in Table I in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the Project was
rated satisfactory in every major area. This result was achieved despite a very difficult political
and administrative environment that plagued the project. The network of primary health care
services has been substantially extended, most health centers have an essential drugs pharmacy,
about half of them have a dental chair, and all of them have been well equipped. Folders with all
the information on the infrastructure of the healtlh establishments constructed/rehabilitated by
PROISS, along with complete inventories, have been given to the municipalities. The expansion
of the PHC network, along with the improved quality of services (as measured by the quality
assurance survey) and, during the last two years, the maternal and child healtlh insurance have all
resulted in increased utilization of services. It is likely that this increased utilization has, at least
in part, led to the improvement in infant health indicators nationwide. Anotlher remarkable
achievement was the redistribution of Human Resources towards Primary Health Care and the
efforts to assist professionals at the operational level to better do their work.
8.   The Institutional Strengthieninig Componenit was carried out diligently. The MPSSP was
restructured and PROISS coordinated well with the central authorities. However, the activities
under this component have been the least effective due to: (i) the rapid changes in the
administrative structure of government, whichi rendered some policies and procedures supported
by PROISS obsolete; (ii) PROISS slowness in adapting to broader administrative and political
clhanges; (iii) PROISS inability to complete, validate, document and transfer its experiences; (iv)
pressure to use Project resources and hire personnel and consultants for purposes not specified in
the agreement, which in turn generated friction and misunderstanidinigs with central and regional
authorities; (v) poor quality of consultancies due to poor terms of reference and/or poor selection
of consultants; and (vi) high personnel turnover within PROISS and also at the central, regional
and district levels.
III. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.    Project implementation was considered satisfactory until the end of 1991. Major
achievements to that date included transferring greater planning and budgeting responsibilities to
the regional and district levels, assuring appropriate staffing of the health districts, the training of
health personnel and traditional birth attendants, and ensuring a substantial increase in public
health care expenditures. By July 1992 the Project was classified as a problem project. Major
concerns included: (i) absence of a strong and stable management team; (ii) implementation
delays, and (iii) problems with the procurement of services, basic medical supplies and
equipment. The August 1993 change in Government brought a new project coordinator and
continued slow progress, albeit with stronger leadership. The Mid Term Review (MTR; see
details in Appendix 1) marked a crucial change in the organizational culture of the PROISS:
there was a democratization of the decision-making process, and a shift in focus from institution
building to excellence in service provision. As a result, the Project experienced major advances
which translated into increased demand for services and improved quality of care (See Graphics
1-3 in Appendix 1). By the mid-1996 the Project started running into difficulties due to changes
in high levels of management and the adoption of non-transparent and non-participatory policies
and procedures. Personnel commitment and project implementation progressively worsened as
the country entered in the national elections period which resulted in a change in government in



4
August 1997, which was again accompanied by changes in personnel and in the structure of the
Health Secretariat which is now a Health Ministry.
10.  Service Delivery Component. There is no data to evaluate changes in maternal mortality
rates since the inception of the Project. Data for infant mortality has gone from 102 deaths per
1,000 live births in 1988 to 92 in 1990 and 75 in 1994; the corresponding under-five mortality
rate for the same years was 172 deaths per 1,000, 160 and 116 in 1988, 1992 and 1994
respectively. As mentioned in the previous paragraph, during Project implementation there was
an increase in both coverage and quality of services. These improvements were due to the
following: (i) the use of total quality management; (ii) the presence of the start-up teams; (iii)
increased and improved infrastructure and equipment; (iv) the establishment pharmacies in the
health centers; (v) the provision of dental care; and (vi) the maternal and child care insurance
scheme (1996).
11.  Infrastructure. PROISS has financed the construction of 77 healthi centers, several first
level hospitals4, and the rehabilitation of 63 health centers; the construction of regional
administrative offices for Cochabamba, El Alto and La Paz; the construction of 7 district offices;
and the construction of a national warehouse for pharmaceuticals in El Alto and two regional
warehouses (one in Cochabamba and one in Santa Cruz). The implementation of this component
was plagued with delays and problems of quality. The quality improved after the development of
national guidelines and the definition of quality standards for the construction of health centers in
1995. Most of the delays are attributable to the performance of SIF, which was the entity
responsible for this component. SIF tended to act independently and ignore timelines, demands
and PROISS suggestions. Given the problems with SIF and the need to finalize the Project with
adequate infrastructure, in 1994, IDA authorized PROISS to directly execute infrastructure sub-
projects for up to US$15,000. The uneven distribution of construction among the four sites and
within the municipalities reflects the fact that PROISS financed the construction! rehabilitation of
health facilities but depended on the communities for the selecticin and legalization of the land.
12.  Equipment. The procurement of vehicles, equipment and medical equipment has been
plagued with difficulties and delays due to: poor work of procurement agents, PIU delays in
determining the Project needs and quality specifications, and poor adherence to Bank
procurement procedures. The staffing of the Resident Mission with an expert in procurement
allowed for an early detection of these problems and facilitated the implementation of the Project.
PROISS has produced a list of equipment for the first level of care and by the end of the Project
all health centers and primary-level hospitals under the PROISS area had been fully equipped.
13.  Maintenance Programs. PROISS invested in consultancies for the definition of a
maintenance system to no avail. Several strategies were contemplated (ranging from the
establishment of national specialized warehouses to contracting with the private sector) but
finally the government allocated the responsibility for the maintenance of health infrastructure
and equipment to the municipalities. During the Project Completion Mission it was observed that
municipalities had each defined a different way to fulfill their responsibilities with the health
sector. The only contribution made by PROISS to this component is the publication of four
maintenance guides (infrastructure, the delivery room, sterilization and dental equipment).
14.  Essential Drugs Pharmacy. By the end of the Project most health centers had an essential
drugs pharmacy and most of the revolving funds had generated gains. This model is now in the
process of been replicated with financing from PAHO in other health centers outside the area of
4 The PROISS was unable to provide the exact number.



5
influence of PROISS. Though it has not been documented, it has been argued that this program,
along with the provision of dental services, played an important role in increasing the utilization
of primary health care services. In addition, it has been suggested that quality of care is enhanced
because patients have access to affordable medications and are enabled to comply with
physician's advice.
15.  Dental Care. Although dental care is not always part of the primary health care package,
there is need and demand for this type of service in Bolivia. The PROISS decided in 1994 to
include a dental care clinic in about half of the health centers. These services were well received
by the community and, some claim, helped attract people to preventive and curative services. A
revolving fund for dental care supplies was established during the last year of the Project.
16.  Total Quality Management. (See Appendix 1) This consisted of: (i) a quality assurance
survey; (ii) the definition of administrative and clinical protocols; aiid (iii) prescription audits.
This strategy proved to be very energizing and resulted in significant improvements in personnel
morale, and in the quality and quantity of services provided within the PROISS area.
17. Human Resources Development Component. PROI SS has been instrumental in
encouraging the re-distribution of human resources from hospital to primary care facilities (see
Table 5), and it was an advocate for the improved status of the primary health care professionals.
PROISS trained 150 Auxiliary Nurses and 135 lay-midwives; financed courses in maternal and
child care and in infectious disease control; transformed 9 health centers into in-service training
facilities; facilitated the training of community healtlh workers and community leaders; and
contributed to the organization and development of community-wide health promotion activities.
At the graduate level PROISS financed and organized, in conjunction with the University, a nine-
month course on Health Management and Epidemiology that was offered during four consecutive
years in La Paz and in Cochabamba; and courses in Dental Care Management (20 professionals)
and Social Dental Care (167 professionals).
18.  Institutional Development Component. Coordination with the MPSSP/Health Secretariat
has, for the most part, been strong. PROISS assisted in the restructuring of the MPSSP and in the
development of the New Sanitary Model. These contributions have been overtaken by broader
public sector changes, namely PPL and DL. PROISS was slow at adjusting its technical
assistance and procedures to the PPL and DL, and to the maternal and child insurance scheme.
PROISS could have played a major role in assisting the municipalities to take over the
responsibilities assigned to them by the PPL; in assisting the regions, districts and health centers
in the development of budgeting and financial management skills; and in consolidating the total
quality management experience. The relationship between the PROISS teams and the Regional
Administrations was not always conducive to achieving the best and most sustainable impact in
the quality or in the administration of services. While PROISS developed several software
instruments for the management of the sector, most of them were left incomplete, were never
validated, and were not made accessible to the municipalities or the health authorities at the
regional or district levels.
19.  Thte Chtagas Proposal. In November 1995, IDA agreed to use US$1 million of the credit
for the Chagas program and, in particular, for the equipment of 4 blood banks and the purchase of
Deltametrina. Bolivia was very slow at producing the list and technical specifications for the
equipment of the Blood Banks and at initiating the procurement of the Deltametrina. Equipment
for the Blood Banks could only be purchased through a special provision granted by IDA, and the
Deltametrina could not be purchased before the Project Closing Date.



6
20.  Project Management. As mentioned above, the Project went through periods of weak
leadership (end of 1991 through beginning of 1995; mid-1996 through November 1997) and IDA
had to invest a substantial amount of resources to ensure compliance with Bank procedures. The
MTR marked a substantial change in Project management (see Appendix), which resulted in
improved Project performance. This positive change arose from an agreement between IDA and
the PROISS to alter the managerial strategy of the project-within the context of the existing
Credit Agreement-including greater coordination between central and regional levels, the
creation of regional operating plans, greater decentralization of decision making, and a change in
IDA's supervision methods. Unfortunately, changes of personnel in key positions reverted the
process. The Administration and Finance Department of the PIU was particularly weak
throughout the entire life of the Project and it was reflected in: (i) problems with cash-flows and
delays in paying contractors; (ii) delays in transferring funds to the regions and in receiving the
justification from the regions; (iii) not having up to date inventories; (iv) delays in the
procurement of goods and services; and (iv) non-adlherence to the Bank's procurement policies.
These weaknesses weakened Project effectiveness; thoughi an overall rating of satisfactory was
achieved, a much better result was within the reach of the project.
21.  General meetings/workshops to discuss progress in project implementation and to
overcome barriers to success were organized twice a year starting in 1995, as part of IDA's
supervision Missions. These meetings proved to be very useful and energizinig. Their success
was based on their usefulness at: clarifying the goals and objectives of the Project, decentralizing
the decision-making process, building cooperation and commitment, finding different and
creative ways to improve healthi care coverage and transmit healthi education messages, and at
learning from each other. The start-up teams assisted the healthi centers in improving their scores
in the quality survey and were key at improving communication and assisting the regional
administrations to better serve the health care providers and the communities. However, while
the existence of these teams was fully justifiable at the beginning of the Project, their tasks should
have been absorbed by regular regional/district employees by later in the Project.
IV.  Project Sustainability
22.  PROISS has proven that Bolivia knows how to manage its resources to improve the health
conditions of women and children. However, the politicization of the sector, as expressed in the
high levels of personnel turnover and massive dismissals of professionals linked to PROISS that
accompanied government changes, threatens the ability to maintain and build on the skills and
procedures developed by the Project. The likelihood of sustainability of the service delivery
component varies: PROISS has had an important impact in the provision of appropriate
infrastructure for the delivery and administration of health care services, and for the storage and
distribution of pharmaceuticals. The inclusion of essential drugs pharmacies, dental care
services, and the use of total quality management strategies are innovative elements that PROISS
successfully introduced in the Bolivian public health sector model. The major threat to the
sustainability of the service component is the tremendous turnover of personnel at the
administrative and operational level, with the corresponding loss of institutional memory. PAHO
is committed to sustaining the essential drugs pharmacy program. The sustainability of total
quality management techniques is doubtful, and the sustainability of the dental care services will
depend on each health center's ability to retain the dentists and maintain the revolving fund for
supplies.
23.  The likelihood of sustainability of the other two components is also variable: infrastructure
and equipment maintenance is now under the control of the municipalities, and their capacity to



7
maintain the network will vary depending on whether they have the technical and economic
resources to face the challenge. PROISS, through the human resources development and
technical assistance activities, has established the basis for further progress in the sector. The
actual impact of these activities will depend on how the government and those who benefited
from the training or the technical assistance use their knowledge and skills in the future.
24.  It is worth mentioning that PROISS started to identify the steps to be taken to render
PROISS achievements sustainable in November of 1995. There was a good plan, allowing
sufficient time to document knowledge and transfer expertise to the relevant authorities. If the
plan had been carried out the municipalities could have built on PROISS' experience and the
documents developed would have benefited primarily Bolivia but also other countries in the
region who face similar problems. Unfortunately, changes in leadership and the political turmoil
that surrounded the national elections and the change in government derailed the process. Key
opportunities missed by PROISS during the last two years of project implementation that could
have enabled the Project to have had a greater and more sustainable impact in the sector included:
(i) the marketing of PROISS' expertise to the municipalities; (ii) the establishment of a
communication system linking primary health care centers with the referral centers and
administrative offices; (iii) the training of architects and construction firms in the particulars of
building for the health sector, and the development of standard bidding documents for health
infrastructure; (iv) the transfer of responsibilities from the start-up teams to personnel working for
the health districts or the regional administrations; (v) the documentation of PROISS' experiences
and the development of manuals of procedures; (vi) the completion of regional health
infrastructure development maps; (vii) the consolidation of total quality management techniques;
and (viii) the completion of software packages for management.
V.   Bank Performance
25.  IDA performance was satisfactory at all stages of the project cycle, as it struggled to
address the serious constraints limiting efficient health service delivery, correctly highlighted
sector policy issues, and paid attention to the need for training programs, particularly
management training. However IDA underestimated the complexity of implementing such an
ambitious program, and while promoting the decentralization of decision-making to the regions
failed to establish the mechanisms through which the regions could manage Project resources for
the implementation of their regional plans.
26.  The staff that carried out the appraisal also supervised the Project during the first two years
of implementation, and one of the consultants who participated at appraisal participated in most
supervision Missions. IDA acted properly and flexibly in response to the client's requests. On
average, two supervision missions were carried out yearly by the task manager, a public health
specialist, and an institutional development consultant. The role of IDA was crucial in carrying
the MTR, in changing the organizational culture of the Project, and in assisting the Project in
identifying how best to respond to the changes in Bolivia's legal framework that were being
implemented in the mid-1990s. The Resident Mission in Bolivia played an important role at
facilitating coordination with SIF and ensuring compliance with Bank procedures, especially in
the procurement of goods and services. Recurrent themes in the supervision reports were
compliance with Bank procedures; weaknesses in the Administrative and Finance Department;
the need to document PROISS experiences; the need to coordinate with other actors in the sector,
including NGOs and the municipalities; and coordination problems between PROISS and the
regional administrations.



8
27.  The total time allocation on pre-board activities was 1 18.8 staff weeks (SW), higher than
the Bank-wide average of 87 for project preparation. The average time allocated to supervision
was 33 SW per year, as compared to a LAC average of 19.5 in social projects. The overall cost
of supervision was slightly higher than the Bank-wide average: the average supervision cost for
PROISS was US$77,300 per year, as compared to the Bank-widle average cost of social sector
supervision of US$65,000 per year. It should be noted that trust funds defrayed a substantial
proportion of the supervision costs. Overall, IDA's performance was satisfactory in all phases of
the Project, providing the necessary assistance and feedback, responding promptly to PROISS
requests.
VI. Borrower Performance
28.  PROISS' ability to perform depended upoIn the relationship that the PIU and the regional
units were able to establish with management staff at the central and regional levels. PROISS
responsibility for the strengtheniing of the public health sector was often interpreted by the GOB
as an obligation for the Project to financially support any sector activity, both at the central and
regional levels. This misunderstanding placed considerable strain on the relationship between the
Project and the central/regional administrationi. Thle regional administration of Cochabamba
established a fruitful relationship with PROISS and learned to use the Project as a resource. As a
result, there was siginificant cross-fertilization between PROISS and public health personnel,
which in turn may result in greater sustainability of Project's achievements. The relationship with
Sanita Cruz was always strained and subject to political interference; a similar situation occurred
in La Paz and to a lesser extent in El Alto. As a result, Project performance in these regions was
very erratic, proving that performance depended more on political climate than on technical
capacity.
29.  Personnel changes at PIU and at the regional levels had an impact in project performance
due to loss of institutional memory and demoralization of personnel. The administrative and
finance department was weak throughout the project and resulted in delays in the procurement of
goods, in the transfer of funds to the regions, in adherence to Bank procedures, and in the
submission of audits and disbursement applications to IDA.
30.  The health sector in Bolivia is fairly fragmented and it is common to find different
projects/agencies tackling the same problem, each one is using a different strategy, without the
opportunity to share experiences and learn from each other's successes or failures. Coordination
is often neglected and leads to duplication, inefficiencies, and, in the long run, may even affect
the health sector's capacity to regulate the sector. In the absence of donor and project
coordination at the central level, PROISS could have done a better job at coordinating with other
projects with similar objectives.
31.  Coordination with SIF was difficult. SIF did not have much experience in the construction
of health facilities and was very slow at accepting the recommendations made by international
consultants or even by PROISS. As a result, the quality of the infrastructure, especially before
1995, was poor and PROISS had to invest in refurbishing a large number of the new SIF-
constructed facilities. In addition, SIF was absorbed in the implementation of its own portfolio,
and had a tendency to neglect its obligations with PROISS. This tendency is reflected in delays
in the signature of contracts, signing contracts that went beyond the duration of the PROISS
Project, delays in presenting audits and in the conciliation of accounts, and ultimately in the need
to extend the Project.



9
VII. Assessment of Outcome
32.  Health projects incorporating many complex elements are more likely to fall short of
original expected targets. Nevertheless, the Project achieved most of its objectives and generally
provided a model for improving primary health care delivery in urban and peri-urban areas. Over
all, the outcome of PROISS is rated as satisfactory. Many of the issues not appropriately
addressed, most of which are related to institutional strengthening, are issues not fully under the
control of PROISS. The lack of strong leadership in the PIU, including the technical department,
during the last two years of project implementation severely weakened the sustainability of the
Project and curtailed the possibilities of transferring the experience gained by PROISS to other
projects, both inside and outside of Bolivia.
VIII. Current and Future Operations
33.  A second credit for the health sector is currently under preparation. The second credit is
aimed at facilitating the implementation of the sector reform and confirms the GOB commitment
to the social sectors. Lessons from the PROISS that should be incorporated in the second project
include: (i) ensuring clarity of expected project outcomes at all levels of project execution; (ii)
establishing a flexible project design; (iii) ensuring coordination with other donors and similar
projects to avoid duplication and maximize efficiency; (iv) involving the regional administrations
and civil society in Project definition to ensure that changes in government do not negatively
affect project implementation; (v) involving the municipalities in project preparation/supervision,
this is particularly important because they control all capital and operational budgets except
salaries; (vi) keeping administrative procedures simple and maintaining technical support for
procurement of goods and services in the resident mission to ensure adherence to Bank
procedures; (vii) assessing thoroughly the level of commitment of the GOB and of the health
sector managers in the appropriate implementation of the project and in the development of the
sector; (viii) ensuring the involvement of health care providers in the supervision and evaluation
of the Project; (ix) minimizing the establishment of sub-contracts between different Government
agencies; and (x) building on experiences proven to be successful within the Bolivian context.
(See below for a more complete discussion of lessons learned.)
IX. Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Operations
34. Some of the key lessons learned from PROISS' experience and recommendations for
future operations may be summarized as follows:
* The size, complexity and scope of the operation made it difficult to administer and costly to
supervise. Furthermore, while project objectives must be well defined, implementation
procedures must be flexible to allow the Project to adapt to the rapid changes in government
policies and structure.
* Project objectives, activities, and process and outcome measures have to be clear for
everybody involved in project execution. The participation of operational personnel in the
regular PROISS administration meetings ensured ownership, enlisted their commitment and
added to the quality of the project.
* The involvement of all staff levels in the planning and decision-making process is vital, along
with decentralized decision-making and decentralized financial resources. Additionally, a



10
reward system linked to performance should be established.
*  The start-up teams were very effective at linking the health center personnel wiith the district
and regional administrations, with the PIU and with the community. Their role was crucial at
improving project's performance, as were the communications systems between operational
and managerial levels.
*  PROISS experience has demonstrated the need to include all key players (government, civil
society, donors) in Project preparation and supervision. This activity may become
increasingly complex with the implementation of the DL and tlhe increased number of donors
who are getting involved in the health sector.
*  The development of operational plans at the national, regional and local levels is important to
Project progress, and should be monitored through the establishment and dissemination of
performance indicators. In addition, project objectives and design should be simplified,
particularly in a country with weak institutions and a dynamic political process.
*  The MTR experience demonstrates that the flexibility of project design and credit agreement
allowed quick, extensive changes to be made, drastically improving project performance.
*  The creation of an organizational culture based oni participation, open dialogue, team work,
client orientation and adoption of total quality management techniques led to the most
prosperous period for the Project (the MTR through mid- 1996).
*  Unless there is very strong commitment from very high levels of Government the
establishment of sub-contracts between different Government agencies should be avoided
(they are very difficult to enforce, as seen in the PROISS' problems with the SIF).
X  The payment of salary supplements to Ministry personnel proved not to be a good strategy, as
it created market distortions and raised expectations that could not be fulfilled: had
authorities assumed these payments, they would have run contrary to Government policy.
*  Given the weakness in the administrative and finance department and the complexity in the
procurement of goods for the health sector, it would have been useful to have enlisted the
services of an internal auditor with experience in Bank procurement procedures. This is
particularly true given that decentralizing funds and procurement capabilities to the regions is
important to enhance local ownership, and the more timely procurement of goods.
*  With regard to procurement, the presence of a procurement expert in the Resident Mission
improved project implementation and adherence to the Bank procedures. However, the
development of technical specifications for the procurement of medical goods remains a
significant challenge. Enlisting the cooperation of agencies/experts in this area may prove to
be very beneficial for future operations.
*  The lack of an infrastructure development plan, along with the reliance on communities'
donations of land for health facilities construction resulted in an uneven, and at times
inappropriate, distribution of health centers.



11
*  Although the inclusion of studies and technical assistance is important, it is crucial to ensure
that the terms of reference are well written and that consultants are well qualified to do the
job, even in the face of Government pressures.
*  The construction guides for health centers, including the definition of quality standards,
enhanced the functionality and quality of infrastructure works.
*  The development and dissemination of procedural manuals and construction guides should be
done early in the life of the Project.



12
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives      Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                  E              O          O              i
Sector policies                 0              0                         0
Financial objectives            O              O          OE 0
Institutional development       O              0          0       
Physical objectives             El             OO
Poverty reduction               a              0          O              O
Gender issues                   O              0          O              O
Other social objectives         E              O          0              E
Environmental objectives        O              E l                       El
Public sector management        O              C1         0 E0
Private sector development      a              O          O              EZ0
B.  Project sustainability               Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
Sustainability                        E              E
Highly
C.   Bank performance                    satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)           (V)           (V)
Identification                        El             0             E
Preparation assistance                El             0             E
Appraisal                             E              0             0
Supervision                           El             0             E
Highly
D.  Borrower performance                 satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(1')          (V)           (V)
Identification                        El             0             E
Preparation assistance                El             0             E
Appraisal                             El             0             E
Supervision                           El             0             El



13
Highly                                    Highly
E.   Assessment of outcome            satisfactory     Satisfactory  Deficient   unsatisfactory
(/)        ~~~(1/)      (17)            (1/)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                  Purpose                    Year of           Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
in lending program:
Cr. 1829-BO            Emergency Social Fund                   1987             Closed
Cr. 1882-BO            Second Emergency Social Fund            1988             Closed
Following operations
in lending program:
Cr. 2127-BO            Social Investment Fund                  1990             Closed
Cr. 253 1-BO           Second Social Investment Fund           1993           In operation
Cr. 2532-BO            Integrated Child Development            1993           In operation
Cr. 2650-BO            Education Quality and Equity            1994           In operation
Improvement Project
Cr. 2806-BO            Rural Water and Sanitation              1995           In operation
Table 3: IBRD Project Timetable
Date Planned        DateActual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            March 1988
Preparation                                         1988-1989          1988-1989
Appraisal                                           May 1989           May 1989
Negotiations                                        July 1989          July 1989
Board Presentation                                                  February 8, 1990
Signing                                                             February 22, 1990
Effectiveness                                                        Sept.21, 1990
Midterm Assessment                                                    March 1995
Loan Closing                                      December 1996        June 1998
Final Disbursement                                                        1998



14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90        FY91        FY92         FY93            4       FY9         FY96         FY97        F
Appraisal estimate                   1,800       4,200       7,200        10,600      13,800      16,600      19,000       20,000        n/a
Actual                               1,925       3,427       6,201        8,991      11,198      13,358       16,283       18,996      21,663
Actual as percent of estimate        107%        82%          86%         85%         81%         80%          86%          95%          n/a
Date of final disbursement: October, 1998
Note: During the life of the project, the exchange rate of SDRs fluctuated, increasing the dollar value of the credit.



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
| Key Implementation Indicators in
SAR/President's Report         Estimated        Actual             Comments
Actions to be taken by the Borrower:
(1)   Allocate to public health, as a    March 31  March 31 each  Actual allocation achieved
percentage of the Borrower's    each year   year
total budget, at least the
following:                    1990: 3.2%    1990: 3.6%
1991: 3.4%    1991: 3.7%
1992: 3.6%    1992: 4.3%
1993: 3.8%    1993: 4.5%
1994: 4.1%    1994: 4.5%
1995: 4.1%    1995: 4.5%
1996: 4.6%
1997: 4.7%
1998: 4.7%
(2)   Allocate funds for primary   March 31       March 31 each  Actual allocation achieved
health care, as a percentage of   each year  year
the total health budget of each
region, at least:             1990: 24%     1990: 33%
1991: 27%     1991: 29%
1992: 30%     1992: 39%
1993: 32%     1993: 41%
1994: 35%     1994: 42%
1995: 35%     1995: 42%
La Paz
1996: 42%
1997: 42%
1998: 42%
El Alto
1996: 42%
1997: 42%
1998: 40%
Santa Cruz
1996: 41%
1997: 40%
1998: 42%
Cochabamba
1996: 42%
1997: 44%
1998: 40%
(3)   Allocate personnel for primary   March 31                  Actual allocation achieved
health care, as a percentage of   each year
the total personnel employed in
the region, at least:
La Paz:       La Paz:        Note: original targets
1990: 30%     1990: n/a      included El Alto, now
1991: 33%     1991: 33%      separated administratively
1992: 36%     1992: 37%      from La Paz.
1993: 39%     1993: 27%
1994: 42%     1994: 28%
1995: 46%     1995: 43%
1996: 42%



16
Key Implementation Indicators in
SARJPresident's Report         Estimated        Actual             Comments
1997: 45%
1998: 45%
El Alto:      El Alto:
1992: 36%     1992: 95%
1993: 39%     1993: 89%
1994- 42%     1994: 90%
1995: 46%     1995: 90%
1996: 90%
1997: 92%
1998: 95%
Cochabamba  Cochabamba
1990: 30%     1990: n/a
1991: 33%     1991: 32%
1992: 36%     1992: 38%
1993: 39%     1993: 29%
1994: 42%     1994: 35%
1995: 46%     1995: 40%
1996: 43%
1997: 45%
1998: 41%
Santa Cruz:   Santa Cruiz:
1990: 30%     1990: n/a
1991: 32%     1991: 34%
1992: 34%     1992: 38%
1993: 36%     1993: 34%
1994: 38%     1994: 35%
1995: 40%     1995: 42%
1996: 40%
1997: 40%
1998: 43%
(4)   Authorize health regions to  January 1,    January 1,      Regional health authorities
administer 90% or more of their  1992       1992.          administer 100% of their
own budgetary resources                                    own budgetary resources.
The Decentralization Law
supports this effort.
(5)   Apply the data provided by the   June 30, 1990  June 30, 1990   NSH/MOH no longer
Borrower's Epidemiological                                 administers food aid. SIF
and Nutritional Surveillance                               does so according to their
System in the allocation of food                           own criteria.
aid to beneficiaries of such aid.
(6)   Distribute, or cause to be    June 30, 1991  June 30, 1991   NSH/MOH no longer
distributed, at least 80% of the                           administers food aid. SIF
food aid available each fiscal                             does so according to their
year to pregnant and nursing                               own criteria.
mothers and children under 5
years of age according to NSH
criteria
(7)   Furnish to IDA a draft Project   March 31,  March 31,
reference summary to be       1990          1990
prepared by each region for
later distribution to relevant
participants and beneficiaries of



17
Key Implementation Indicators in
SARJPresident's Report           Estimated         Actual              Comments
the Projects with information
on the contents of the Project.
(8)   Publish the Project reference   June 30, 1990  June 30, 1990
summary referred to in item 7
above, and distribute it
thereafter.
(9)   Rehabilitate at least 80% of its   December 31,  December 31,
vehicles in the regions and     1990           1990
maintain thereafter at least 80%
of such vehicles in operating
condition.
(10)  Collect detailed data on the    January 31,    June 30, 1994   Collection of complete
acquisition and distribution of    1991                        information was delayed.
medical drugs by at least 90%
of the facilities in health
districts.
(11)  Prepare financial reports in    June 30, 1991                   Partially complied with.
health districts reflecting inter                              The PPL changed the
alia food aid, other foreign and                               regional allocation of
local aid and the health                                       health districts; the Project
districts' own resources being                                 is adjusting to the new
collected and spent.                                           regional arrangements
(12)  Apply procedures developed      January 31,    January 31,
from the study referred to in   1992           1992
Part C(c)(i) of the Project in the
elaboration of the Borrower's
budget for primary health care.
(13)  Commence to operate a                                           All but the unified
management information                                         programmatic information
system satisfactory to the                                     are operating in all four
Association based on the results                               regions.
of the study referred to in Part
C(b)(iii) of the Project as
follows:
(i) with unified financial   December 31,
information               1990
(ii) with unified            December 31,
programmatic              1991
information
(iii) with the remaining     June 30, 1992
features of the system
(14)  Furnish to IDA a program to     December 31,                    PIU assisted in the
improve the status of basic     1990                           elaboration of a series of
health care doctors,                                           strategies for improving
administrative staff and                                       the status of doctors.
directors of Sanitary Units to a
level satisfactory to the
Borrower and IDA
(15)  Implement program referred to   March 31,      March 31,
item 14 above.                  1990           1990



18
Key Implementation Indicators in
SAR/President's Report          Estimated        Actual             Comments
(16)  Introduce in the management    December 31,  December 31,   Partially complied with.
information system the results   1992        1992
of the survey provided from
time to time by INE to the NSH
pursuant to the terms of the
agreement between them dated
March 17, 1989.
(17)  Staff the facilities of the Health  as specified             Virtually all project health
Districts according to model    in the Model                 district teams are staffed
criteria, including the                                      although it is uncertain if
requirement that all dental staff                           these positions will
employed in such Health                                      continue to be financed
Districts are part of the staff                              with public funds.
presently on NSH payroll.
(18)  Achieve, and maintain         June 3.0, 1990  La Paz         Achieved in Santa Cruz
thereafter, in each Health                   1996: 2.5:1
District, a ratio of doctors to              1997: 2.5:1
nurses of no less than 3 to I                El Alto
1996: 1.6:1
1997: 1.6: 1
Santa Cruz
1996: 4:1
1997: 3.9:1
Cochabamba
1996: 2.5:1
1997: 2.7:1
(19)  Review with IDA the actions    October 31,                   The managerial capacity of
taken, or to be taken, and the  1993                        the NSH/MOH has been
policies developed to address                                enhanced through
the sectoral and cross-sectoral                              managerial courses and
issues referred to in the                                    recruitment of qualified
Borrower's letter to IDA dated                               personnel.
October 31, 1991
(20)  Retain in the PIU and each    All times                      SAR and credit agreement
region all technical documents                               have been translated and
prepared for purposes of the                                 widely distributed.
Project in adequately
maintained Project archives.
(21)  Train no less than three       1 year after                  Project has amply
midwives per health area of   the start of                   surpassed this goal, having
each health district          the project in                trained about 15 midwives
each district                 per health district.
(22)  Implement a policy of         December 31,                   All four regions in the
decentralization of hiring and  1991                         project make their own
staffing decision making                                     staffing decisions. This
responsibilities from                                        has been supported by the
NSH/MOH to health regions.                                   decentralization law.
(23)  Increase the ratio of basic   March 31:      1996: 36%
health are doctors to doctors in   1989: 26.8%    1997: 37%
hospitals and health care     1990: 27.6%



19
Key Implementation Indicators in
SAR/President's Report         Estimated        Actual             Comments
centers, all employed by NSH,   1991: 28.5%
to at least:                  1992: 29.3%
1993: 30.2%
1994: 31.1%
(and
thereafter)
(24)  Distribute to all health regions                            Meetings are held with all
PROISS leaflets describing the   Quarterly                  the regions bi-monthly but
progress made in the                                        no leaflets are produced.
implementation of the Project.
(25)  Implement the action plan     All times
referred to in Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(c)(ii) of the Credit
Agreement.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operation Indicators in SAR: None
Table 7: Studies Completed
January 1994 - June 1997
PROISS was unable to provide necessary information.



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                   Actual
(USS million)                   (USS mdilion)
Item                             TGN and            .TGN and
IDA      others      Total     IDA        others      Total
1. Infrastructure and maintenance          6.23       2.70      8.93       7.25        1.66       8.92
2. Goods                                   6.83       6.29      13.12      5.25        1.26       6.52
3. Consultants and auditing services       5.56       2.11      7.67       4.55                   4.55
4(a). Operating Costs                      1.38          0       1.38      2.98                   2.98
4(b). Directors' and nurses' salaries         0       7.50      7.50       0.11                   0.11
5. Refunding of PPF                                        .               1.50                    1.50
TOTAL*                                    20.00      18.60     38.60      21.66        2.92      24.59
* The PROISS is unable to provide information on expenses made by PAHO, the Dutch
Government, UNICEF, or the full extent of the GOB's contribution (particularly as
regards salaries of health personnel).
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                          Actual
(USS nullion)                         (USS mallion)
Local costs   Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Item                           costs       Total       costs       Costs           Total
IDA                             15.1         4.9         20.0      21.7             0             21.7
Government of Bolivia            9.4         0.1          9.5                       0
Public Regional Entities         2.9         0.0          2.9       2.9             0              2.9
Dutch Govemment                  0.0         6.2          6.2          .                            F
TOTAL*                          27.4         11.2        38.6      24.6                           24.6
* The PROISS is unable to provide information on expenses made by PAHO, the Dutch
Government, UNICEF, or the full extent of the GOB's contribution (particularly as
regards salaries of health personnel).
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No cost benefit analysis was included in this project.



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bolivia: Integrated Health Development Project
Credit 2092-BO
Original      Revised
Covenant             Fufillment    Fulfillment
Section    type        Status   date           date          Description of covenant   Comments
2.02(b)        I         C      Effectiveness               Open and Maintain        One special account
Special Account         opened on 10/21/90 at
Central Bank. MPSSP
and SIF established sub-
accounts. SIF used sub-
account for parts A( I)
and A(2) and MPSSP
used sub-account for the
rest.
3.01(b).       5         C       October31                  Carry out the Plan of   Trhe 1995 Action Plan
3.04(a)                                                     Action. Review           was reviewed in
Progress                November 1996, and
updated in April 1997.
3.02           5         C          ASAP                    E'nter into/sign an      Covenant signed 6/1190
7.01(c)                                                     agreement with SIF
3.03(a),       5         C        All times                 Maintain a project unit
(b)
3.04(b)        5         C      November 30                 Submit Health Care
Services Investment
Program
3.04(c)        5         NC     4-5 months                  Prepare and submit semi-  Reports were often not
following end               annual report to IDA    submitted, or were
of                                                  submitted late.
supervision
mission
3.05(a)        5         C      3 months                    Enter into subgrant
from start of               agreement with
subproject in              implementing entities
health district
3.06           5         CP     All times                   Adhere to IDA            Close supervision was
procurement and        required to ensure
contracting procedures    adherence to IDA
procedures.
3.07           5         C      All times                   Contract procurement     Contract signed with C3D
agent                  in early 1995. With
revision of Bolivian law,
procurement agents no
longer exist.
4.01(a)        I         C      All times                   Maintain separate
records and accounts
4.01(b)        I         CD     Each year                   Audit records and
(i)                                                         accounts and ensure that
SIF does likewise.



22
4.01(b)          I          CD      June 30                        Fumish audit reports to    Audit reports from both
(ii)                                                               IDA, including opinion     PROISS and SIF were
on SOE procedures and      consistently late.
internal controls
4.01(b)         5           C       All times                      Ask SIF to furnish         SIF wvas frequently very
(iii)                                                              information as it is       delayed in responding to
requested.                 PROISS requests.
4.01(c)          I          C       All times                      Maintain statements of
expenditures in
accordance wvith
accounting practices.
5.01(b)         5           CP      December 31.                   Furnish to IDA a           Maintenance program
1990                          maintenance program.        received was incomplete.
7.01(a)         5          CD       April 24,                      PROISS to be               Began operations in July
1990                          established in a form       1990
satisfiactory to IDA
7.01(b)         5           C       ASAP                           PROISS to elaborate
manuals satisfactory to
IDA. Disbursement
condition for parts AI
and A2
Key
Covenant types:                                                             Status:
I Accounts/audit                      8  Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/revenue       9  Monitoring. review, and reporting  C  =  covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries       Io Project implementation not covered by  CD =  complied with after delay
3 Flow and utilization of proiect funds   categories 1-9                    CP =  complied with partially
4 Counterpart funding                 II Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC =  not complied with
, Management aspects of the project or    other resource allocation
executing agency                    12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 Environmental covenants                 regulatory/institutional action
7 Involuntary resettlement            13 Other
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All Operational Manual statements were complied with.



23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
FY      Preparation    Appraisal    Negotiations   Supervision   Completion    TOTAL
87          8.8                                                                    8.8
88         26.8                                                                   26.8
89          66            3.6                                                     69.6
90                        5.3            8.3           18.1                       31.7
91                                                     37.9                       37.9
92                                                     38.3                       38.3
93                                                     39.0                       39.0
94                                                     43 3                       43.3
95                                                     23.1-                      23.1
96                                                     27.4                       27.4
97                                                     25.5                       25.5
98                                                     16.4          7.8          24.2
TOTAL        101.6          8.9            8.3            269           7.8         395.6



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                                     <--Performance Rating-->
Month/       of      Days in  Specialized Staff Skills  Implementation   Development
Stage of Project Cycle     Year       Persons    Field        Represented'           Status2         Objective        Type of Problems
Through Appraisal              3/88        4          5     Public Health Spec.
Identification/Preparation                               Economist
Consultant
Consultant
Pre-Appraisal                 1989
7Appraisal through Board       1989         5         10     Public Health Spec.
Approval                                                    Economist
Lawyer
Civil Engineer
I_Financial Analyst     ._                         _
Negotiations                  2/1990
Board Approval through       3/1990        3         10     Economist (1)                  2               1         Project Investment
Effectiveness                                               Institut. Develop. (IC)                                 Program inadequate.
Essential Drugs (IC)
5/1990       2          2     Economist (I)                  2               I
Researcher (I)
7/1990       4          2     Economist (1)                  2               1         Infrastructure component
Institut. Develop. (IC)                                 lagging behind schedule
Essential Drugs (IC)
Infrastructure (IC)
Supervision 1                2/1991        4         15    Institut. Develop (IC)          2               1         Weak implementation
Infrastructure (I)                                      capacity, particularly
Economist (I)                                           finance and administration
_________ _  ________  |Training  Specialist (IC)   I       I    _I
Supervision 2                8/1991         1       Res.    Economist (1)                  2               2         Difficulties in contracting
Mission                                                          personnel and in the
acquisition of basic
medical supplies and
_   equipment
'Consultant participation is represented by a "C"
2 Performance ratings were altered from numerical to alphabetical ratings in FY'94



25
Number                                     <-Performance Rating->
Month/        of     Days in  Specialized Staff Skills  Implementation   Development
Stage of Project Cycle     Year       Persons    Field        Represented'           Status2        Objective         Type of Problems
Supervision 3                1/1992        4         11     Economist (1)                 2                2        Poor financial
Health Specialist (1)                                   management. Procurement
Architect (IC)                                          problems
Operation Specialist (1)
Supervision 4                6/1992         1      Head-   Economist (1)                   3               2        Instability at the PIU. High
quarters                                                         personnel turnover.
Procurement problems.
Supervision 5                9/1992        6         16     Economists (2)                 3               2        Absence of strong
Institut. Develop. (IC)                                 management team. Lack of
Public Health                                           adherence to Bank
l __________________    ________                             Specialists (3C)                                        procedures.
Supervision 6                7/1993        4         15     Economists (2)                 3               2        Political pressures. Weak
Institut. Develop. (IC)                                 project management.
Architect (IC)                                          Delays in implementation.
Poor quality of
infrastructure.
Supervision 7                2/1994        3         1J    Eruoui,-lifSts 1)               3               2         Lack of -dherPnrP tin Bnk
Institut. Develop. (IC)                                 procedures
Architect (IC)
Essential Drugs (IC)
Supervision 8                3/1995        2         15     Public Health Spec. (1)        3               2        Overcentralization of
(Mid-Term Review)                                           Institut. Develop. (I)                                   decision-making. Need to
focus on the needs of
health care providers and
strengthen the
administrative capacity of
regions and districts. Poor
managerial capacity at PIU,
especially in the
administration and finance
department
Supervision 9                11/1995       3         11     Public Health Spec. (1)        S               S         Need to adjust to respond
Institut. Develop. (1)                                  to the PPL, DL and New
Operations Spec. (IC)                                   Sanitary Model
Supervision 10               6/1996        3         12     Public Health Spec. (1)        S               S        Personnel changes at



26
Number                                      <-Performance Rating>
Month/        of      Days in  Specialized Staff Skills  Implementation   Development
Stage of Project Cycle      Year      Persons    Field         Represented'            Status2        Objective        Type of Problems
Institut. Develop. (I)                                   central and regional levels.
Operations Spec. (IC)                                    Strained relationship with
the regional administration
of Santa Cruz. Need to
extend the project
Supervision I1                11/1996       2          3     Public Health Spec. (1)        5                5        Overcentralization of
Operations Spec. (IC)                                   decision-making. Non-
participatory, non-
transparent methods. Lack
of compliance with Bank
procedures. Politicization
of the Project.
Supervision 12                4/1997        2         14     Public Health Spec. (1)        S                S        New changes at PIU. Poor
Operations Spec. (IC)                                   managerial capacity at
central and regional levels.
Supervision 13               11/1997        2         11     Public Health Spec. (1)        5                S        Change in Government.
(Project Completion                                          Operations Spec. (IC)                                    Massive changes of
Mission)                                                                                                              personnel. Crucial
activities will be eliminated
from the Project. High
level of politicization.
Delays in infrastructure,
procurement and in
development of technical
manuals. Need to extend
the Project so that SIF can
. _  _   _  =  ._                 complete works already
[ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   -  _ _   _ _ _  _    _   _    _   J  _  _   _   _     _   _    _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~started.



27
APPENDICES
A.   Borrower Contribution: The Borrower did not provide their contribution to the ICR.
B.   There are no contributions by cofinanciers.
C.   Miscellaneous Appendices: The Mid-Term Review
D.   Map



I
APPENDIX
PROISS MID-TERM REVIEW
March 1995
Methodology
The Mid-term Review (MTR) of the PROISS was carried out in a 3.5 day
workshop jointly organized by IDA and the Project Unit (PU) in March 1995. About 40
people actively participated, representing IDA, the PIJ, the Health Secretariat, regional
project teams and health administrations (including regional directors), and health care
providers (including auxiliary nurses).
The workshop objectives were to respond to the following questions, utilizing a
participatory methodology:
* Where are we?
3 Where do we want to be by the end of the Project?
D How do we get there?
The PU prepared a short questionnaire, along with a list of all Project Objectives
classified in 5 categories: (1) financial management; (2) infrastructure; (3) human
resources; (4) general management; and (5) service delivery. The questionnaire was
aimed at motivating participants to concentrate and consider the Project's achievements
and problems. After responding to the questionnaire, all participants were divided in 5
groups of 6-7 people each with representatives of the different regions and administrative
levels. Each group was assigned the objectives list of one of the above-mentioned
categories. For each objective the group had to respond to the following questions, and
responses to each objective were discussed in plenary sessions:
* Has the objective been achieved?
* How? (List the activities conducted and the instruments developed.)
What standards are you using to assess progress/achievement?
* Which have been the key elements for success?
* Is the objective still valid or is it obsolete'?
Are the instruments developed through the Project still valid?
* For whom are the instruments valid (the P'roject or the Health Secretariat)?
What should the Project do to fulfill this objective?
Other suggestions.
Group Dynamics were good: participants were engaged and worked very hard
over long hours. Tension arose between the PU and the regional and service provision
staff: the PU believed that most objectives had been fulfilled, and that the instruments
developed had been made available to the regions. In contrast, regional administration
representatives felt that the PU centralized all decisions, that many management
instruments did not respond to their needs, and, furthermore, that the instruments



2
developed had not been made accessible to them. Additionally, health care providers
contended that many activities financed by the project were not benefiting the health
centers. The Project Manager's handling of these conflicts marked a turning point in the
project: he apologized for the incorrect management of the Project and promised to
engage in a more democratic and inclusive management style. He asked participants to
look into the future and focus on the positive results that could be achieved through their
collaboration.
Results
Among the workshop results were: (i) the dissolution of tension between the PU,
regional administrations, and service providers; (ii) clarity regarding Project objectives;
(iii) an action plan developed by all participants; (iv) the promise of a change in
organizational culture; (v) a shift in focus from institution building to excellence in
service provision; and (vi) agreement on using total quality management strategies to
monitor progress.
The following agreements, some of which are discussed in greater detail below,
were reached during the workshop: (i) the development and use of regional operational
plans; (ii) a more dynamic coordination system between the PU, regional administrations
and health providers (through the establishment of start-up teams); (iii) a bias for action,
with rapid and decentralized decision-making; (iv) the utilization of total quality
management strategies; (v) increases in health service utilization and improvements in
the quality of service provided; and (vi) changes in IDA's supervision imethods.
Start-Up Teams (Equipos de Puesta en Marcha). These regional-based teams
were composed of a physician and nurse with some experience in community medicine.
Their responsibilities required them to: (i) liaise with health centers, the community,
district, regional administration and the PU; (ii) assist health centers in conducting
activities included in the operational plan, and in meeting pre-established quality
standards; and (iii) assist the PU and regional teams in writing the protocols for quality of
service. To effectively carry-out their responsibilities, Start-Up Teams had access to a
vehicle and some discretionary funds (about US$300 per health center), to be used for
urgent repairs, supplies, or special functions. The PU met with Start-Up Teams on a
monthly basis to discuss progress, revise action plans, and develop strategies to overcome
difficulties in effectively moving the Project forward. These monthly meetings were also
used to review procedural manuals and clinical protocols prepared by each region for the
benefit of the entire Project.
Implementation experience demonstrated that some key issues for the success of
Start-Up Teams included: (i) the selection of very committed team meimbers with
previous experience in the public sector; (ii) the team's ability to have direct control over
a limited amount of funds, thus allowing them to quickly respond to urgent health center
needs; and (iii) the ready availability of transportation. As their name implies, the
existence of these teams was fully justifiable at the beginning and middle of the project,



3
but their tasks should have been absorbed by regular regional of district employees over
the course of project execution.
Coordination and Decentralized Decision-making. Following the MTR, regions
had the ability to directly finance programmed activilies. Additionally, there was regular
contact, with a pre-established and agreed upon agenda, between PU personnel, the
regions and the start-up teams. All of this facilitated the devolution to the regions of day-
to-day decision-making. The role of the PU changed, becoming more that of a facilitator
than a control agent. Competition and cooperation among health centers was
encouraged; initiative and creativity were recognized and rewarded. The project's goal
was to achieve excellence in service provision; this was measured using a quality
assurance survey and prescription audits.
Total Quality Management (TQM). In addition to the Health Secretariat's
monitoring tools, all PROISS health centers agreed to use TQM techniques, including:
(i) a quality assurance survey applied quarterly to each health center; (ii) the definition of
administrative and clinical protocols; and (iii) prescription audits. The first draft of the
survey was generated by the PU and subsequently revised to include the comments of the
different regions, and to incorporate the experience gained during its application to a
handful of health centers. The survey included abou't 150 variables to measure the
following issues: (i) infrastructure and equipment; (ii) maintenance and appearance
(cleanliness); (iii) accessibility (signs, information, marketing); (iv) community
involvement; (v) adherence to administrative procedures; (vi) quality and quantity of
services provided; (vii) health promotion activities; (viii) maternal and child services; (ix)
dental services; and (x) the essential drugs program.
More important than the survey tool itself, which was not perfect, were: (i) the
very fact that of its existence; (ii) its use as an evaluation tool constructed and accepted
by everyone involved in the Project; (iii) its clarification of the project's goals and the
performance expectations of each health center; and (iv) its dynamism, with regular
modification to accommodate for changes in Government policies and project priorities.
In the initial stages, the survey was applied by the PIJ; during the second application the
PU invited regional participants to evaluate other regions; most recently, evaluation
teams included representatives of professional and community organizations, municipal
governments, the National Health Secretariat, and regional governments. The use of this
tool as part of an accreditation system was discussed, but this idea was eventually
rejected: not only might the survey lose its dynamism, but also health centers not
included in the Project might not meet accreditation standards.
An interesting aspect of the quality assurance survey was that it generated
competition among health centers. Rewards linked ito survey results included: (i)
external recognition through the award of a clock or flag for the health center; and (ii)
internal recognition and non-financial incentives (training, educational trips, uniforms).
The PU and IDA developed a scale assigning a different color flag to the results of the
survey: the range of colors went, from best to worsl, (i) green/gold (half green/half gold);
(ii) green; (iii) green/yellow; (iv) yellow; (v) yellow/red; (vi) red; (vii) red/black; and



4
(viii) black. These flags, which primarily existed on paper, determined the rewards for
the centers, based on their performance: If a health center performed satisfactorily (green
flag), it received a clock; if it performed satisfactorily in two subsequent applications, it
received a photograph of all the staff; if a health center performed satisfactorily three
consecutive times, it was given a green or green/gold flag to hang outside the health
center. Health centers that received a black/red or black flag were carefully evaluated;
about 9 of them were closed over the course of the project. The first time this system was
used, health centers in each region, on average, scored satisfactorily on 20-23 percent of
the variables. By the third time the survey was applied, they scored satisfactorily on 67-
81 percent of the variables, which is a significant improvement.
The main value of service protocols is that they were produced by those directly
providing the service, and were then shared and discussed. More than an evaluation tool,
these protocols were used as a training strategy. The possibility of using them for process
evaluation was considered but never carried out.
Prescription audits (autopsy of prescriptions) proved to be an interesting initiative
with very positive results. A well-respected physician with expertise in pharmaceuticals
was selected in each region. Each month, that physician collected all prescriptions from a
selected number of health centers; he later analyzed the information written in the
prescription and discussed the results in a seminar with all physicians operating in the
health centers from which he had collected the information. The percent of prescriptions
written in accordance with technical standards, in some cases, doubled within a six-
month period (from 33-37% to 65-90%).
Increased Service Utilization and Quality. In terms of health service coverage,
there were significant increases in the number of outpatient visits (see Graphic 1), in the
number of institutional deliveries (births attended in health care centers (see Graphic 2)),
and in dental care services (see Graphic 3). The increase of institutional deliveries was
facilitated by the maternal and child health insurance scheme sponsored by the
Government. Under the maternal and child care insurance scheme, the central
government transfers funds to municipal governments to cover the costs of all
institutional deliveries and maternal and child health care services. This increase in
coverage appears to be associated with the utilization of total quality management
strategies, the availability of pharmaceuticals in all health centers, and the provision of
dental care services.
Quality of care was also increased by greater attention to pharmaceuticals.
Continuity in the supply of pharmaceuticals was achieved through the establishment of
revolving funds in each health center. Pharmaceuticals were purchased directly from a
central Government pharmacy and then sold at the health center for a slightly higher
price. The profits made through the sale of medicines allowed the health center to
increase the amount of medicines in stock and, in some cases, donate medicines to those
who could not afford to pay. The revolving funds were very closely monitored and, in



5
most cases, were appropriately used. ' A similar filnd was to be established for dental
care supplies, but with management changes in the project, this was never realized.
IDA 's Supervision Strategy. As a result of the MTR workshop, IDA's task
manager decided to hold intensive 2-day workshops as part of each supervision mission.
All regions and administrative levels were invited to participate. Each workshop
included a review of commitments made during the previous mission, and addressed
specific issues affecting the Project. For example: the November 1995 workshop
analyzed the effects of the Popular Participation and Decentralization Laws on health
sector management, and how the Project could contribute to a smoother transition. The
June 1996 workshop concentrated on defining all activities and documents to be
produced before closing the Project. These meetings were quite successful at motivating
the regional teams and health providers, and at creating a sense of Project ownership in
all the main actors. In addition, they were very rich in new ideas. Despite their success,
however, these meetings had to be discontinued by mid-1996, when it became obvious
that the new project management did not share the Project team's philosophy and values,
and was determined to utilize an autocratic, non-participatory and non-transparent
management style. An unfortunate result was that project performance suffered and
personnel turnover increased.
Graphic I
Outpatient Visits per in year in the area of influance of PROISS
968,1 17
1,000,000 -
900,000
800,000                                713,646   713,646   728,986
700,000
600,0005Q3  
500,000-
400,000    299942
200,000 -~
100,000 ,-,~                           ~
9,1       92       93        94        95        96       97()
'In a selected number of health centers, proceeds from the revolving fund were used to pay salaries of
employees who, as a result of the enactment of the Popular Participation Law (PPL), did not receive
payment for their services. The PPL prohibited the use of funds raised through the provision of services to
cover salaries, and transferred the responsibility for salary payment from the central Government to the
municipality. The municipalities received sufficient funds from the central Government to pay for the
salaries of those on the Government payroll, but did not have the budget or capacity to cover salaries of
those paid through funds generated at the health center. This problem was later resolved, and in some



6
Graphic 2: Number of Institutional Deliveries
25,000
20,000-.                 s                 
93            94             95             96           97 (*)
Graphic 3: Number of Dental Consullts
140,000 ,                                                     __
5,000./
0-
93             94             95             96            97(*)
cases. the Project agreed to allocate an additional amount to reltstsblish the revolving fund for
pharrnaceuticals.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20516
B R A Z I L                             B O L I V I A
To Ph,,.OI
Tosloleza loVll
9_Xp    '                                  ROADS-
T R: B DnCa   .   ECociwQ                      M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecomodory
o Ooso\   _/  ,ySOntoROEo } Z O Guooyarrl F~~                 Troosk
I-i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  M
'~~   2Cp - iAl MoteSo &   - 7-'
P^tVnr    Pk$   D         \                              o      RToens
Dzj  '\  0Zt'  >  t   l  t  >                    DepoRt- eot  oodorFes
j  Solmoi ey Os.mo R^sa   B F 4 1, 4   // < //  o ~~~~~~~~~~50 100 IS0 200 050
/   Buerc    FLTrlmEtCuroMntosliF                        00  '0   100// / /             ILMns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ To             o o,  R oso c o,  E m b o o o o, :r 
1..e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i..ICpi1
P EOn@9 RO U             Lo SPk  TDA       NA X -  
OLOoA  o Esaa.
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OJR 0



