Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2092 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Health Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Date February 22, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2092 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of the Netherlands 
(the Netherlands), a grant (the Cofinancing Grant) in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to approximately six million two hundred thousand dollars ($6,200,000) to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Cofinancing Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Netherlands;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SIF" means the Borrower's Social Investment Fund, which will be 
established by the President of the Borrower, as a public entity with full juridical 
personality, pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
"SIF Agreement means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, acting through MPSSP (as such term is defined hereinafter) and SIF pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time and such term includes all schedules to the SIF Agreement;
(c)
Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 28, 1988 
and April 29, 1988 between the Borrower and the Association for an amount of $490,000 
which was increased to an amount of $1,490,000 by another exchange of letters between 
the Borrower and the Association dated January 4, 1989 and January 24, 1989;
(d)
"MPSSP" means Ministerio de Prevision Social y Salud Publica, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Social Welfare and Public Health;
(e)
"Model" means the MPSSP's Integrated Health Care Model, the model 
described in the Borrower's document "Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Institucional y 
Desarrollo de Servicios - MPSSP - Banco Mundial", published by MPSSP in La Paz, 
Bolivia in 1989, as said Model may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
"PU" means the Project unit to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Subprojects" means the activities included in the Project of the Health 
Care Services Investment Program (as such term is defined hereinafter) other than 
those included in Part A (1) and A (2) of the Project, to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, which have been approved by the Association for the carrying 
out by an Implementing Entity and "Sub project" means any of the Subprojects;
(h)
"Health Care Services Investment Program" means the annual program of 
investments approved by the Borrower for improving the provision and delivery of 
health care services in its Public health sector;
(i)
"Implementing Entity" means any public or private entity which proposes 
to carry out, or is carrying out, a Subproject;
(j)
"Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MPSSP, and an Implementing Entity for the purposes of carrying out a 
Subproject, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subgrant 
Agreement;
(k)
"SIF Manuals means Manual del Promotor, Manual del Evaluador and Manual 
de Seguimiento the manuals for promotion, evaluation and monitoring of Subprojects to 
be adopted by SIF pursuant to the provisions Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(1)
"DHC" means any of the Departmental Health Councils, the councils 
responsible for the definition of departmental health Priorities within the national 
policy framework;
(m)
"Sanitary Units" means the Borrower's Sanitary Units of La Paz, Santa 
Cruz and Cochabamba; where Subprojects are being carried out; and
(n)
"Health Districts" means the Borrower's health districts in the Sanitary 
Units of La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba where Subprojects are being carried out; 
and
(o)
"Special Account" means  the Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures. made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the effective date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date, and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify he Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of %) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15, and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2000 and ending October 15,  2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,  2009 shall be one 
percent (1) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
Page  4
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America whereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) MPSSP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of all parts of the Project other than Parts A (1) and (2) thereof. 
(b)
SIF is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Parts A 
(1) and (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out through MPSSP, all parts of the Project other than Parts A (1) and (2) 
thereof, with the assistance of the Implementing Entities in the carrying out of 
Subprojects; (ii) cause SIF to carry out Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project, both with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, managerial, engineering and health care practices; and (iii) provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, personnel, services and other resources 
required for all Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project in 
accordance with the Plan of Action set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, acting through MPSSP, enter into an 
agreement with SIF (the SIF Agreement) providing for their respective obligations in 
the carrying out of Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia, 
those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through MPSSP, shall exercise its rights and comply 
with its obligations under the SIF Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, in a 
form and with functions satisfactory to the Association, a project unit in the 
Planning Directorate of the MSSP and in each Sanitary Unit with the overall 
responsibility of managing and supervising the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall staff the PU with personnel in numbers and with 
qualifications and experience, and with terms and conditions of employment, all 
satisfactory to the Association, such personnel to include, inter alia:  (i) in the 
Planning Directorate of MPSSP: a project manager, an administrator,  a technical 
director, an accountant and support personnel; and (ii) in each Sanitary Unit: an 
administrative director and a planner director.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower, at such 
times as specified below and until such time that the report referred to in Section 
9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has been furnished to the Association, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, shall: 
Page  5
(a)
not later than October 31 in each of its fiscal years, after its fiscal 
year ending December 31, 1989, meet with representatives of the Association for the 
purposes of reviewing jointly the following: (i) the progress made by the Borrower 
during the immediately preceding fiscal year in implementing the Plan of Action; and 
(ii) the progress made by the Borrower during the immediately preceding fiscal year in 
implementing the  corresponding Health Care Services Investment Program including the 
carrying out of Subprojects under such Program;
(b)
not later than November 30 in each of its fiscal years, after its fiscal 
year ending December 31, 1989, prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and 
submitted, to the Association the Health Care Services Investment Program for the 
immediately following fiscal year including the expansion of the basic health care 
services within such Program, said Program to be in a form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association and to include, inter alia, the staff requirements of the PU for 
the following year, including the consultants and advisors to be contracted from MPSSP 
to assist the PU in the implementation of the Project, and a detailed training program 
for the following fiscal year; and
(c)
not later than March 1 and September 1 in each of its fiscal years, after 
its fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, and without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, prepare and submit, or cause  to be prepared and 
submitted, to the Association a semi-annual report, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress made by the Borrower in 
implementing the Project during the immediately preceding six-month period.
Section 3.05. (a) Not later than three months from the commencement of a 
Subproject in each Health District, the Borrower shall, through MPSSP enter into a sub 
grant agreement, with each Implementating Entity providing for its respective 
obligations in the carrying out of each Subproject, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those referred to in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subgrant Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subgrant 
Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, with a procurement agent or agents acceptable to the 
Association, for the purposes of providing procurement services for the Project on 
behalf of the Borrower, including the contracting of consultants  and procurement of 
goods to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) 
in respect of Part A (1) and (2) of the Project shall be carried out by SIF.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in espect of all parts of the 
Project other than Parts A (1) and (2) thereof; and (ii) cause SIF to maintain 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect or Parts A (1) and (2) 
of the Project,  and other departments or agencies of the Borrower  responsible for 
Page  6
the carrying out of such parts of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
(A) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited; and (B) cause SIF to have the records and 
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section for 
each fiscal year audited, all in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and cause SIF to furnish to the 
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the end of each such year a certified copy 
of the report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish and cause SIF to furnish, to the Association such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or be maintained in MPSSP and SIF as the case may be, and 
each of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
ARTICLE V
Maintenance
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause all health care services  
facilities and related buildings, equipment materials, and vehicles of the Borrower to 
be adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in 
accordance with appropriate health and engineering practices; (ii) cause all health 
care services facilities and vehicles, maintenance equipment and workshops to be 
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, 
all in accordance with appropriate health and engineering practices; and (iii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds required for all of the foregoing.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990, furnish to the Association a 
maintenance program, satisfactory to the Association, for its facilities in the Health 
Districts.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Cofinancing Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 
Page  7
30, 1990, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided,  however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
SIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the SIF 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SIF will be able to perform any of its respective obligations under this 
Agreement or the SIF Agreement.
(d)
The Decree establishing SIF in accordance with the provisions of Section 
7.01 (a) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SIF to perform any of 
its obligations under the SIF Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIF or for the suspensions of 
its operations.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Cofinancing Grant or of any grant, or loan or credit made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing there for; 
or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of. the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
(g)
The Borrower shall have failed to enter into a Subgrant Agreement in 
respect of an Implementing Entity after the term specified in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement or an Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under its Subgrant Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,  the 
following additional events are specified: (i) that the event specified in 
sub-paragraphs (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur,  subject to 
the proviso of subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section; (ii) that any event specified in 
paragraphs (b) or (g) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days; and (iii) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) or 
(e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the SIF has been established in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
that the SIF has adopted the SIF Manuals in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
that the SIF Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto in 
Page  8
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the SIF Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by SIF, and is legally binding upon SIF in accordance 
with its terms and conditions.
Section 7.03. The date May 23, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION
La Paz, Bolivia
(MINCORD BY)
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Page  9
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)    Works for        4,000,000       100% of foreign
       Parts A.1                        expenditures
       and A.2 of                       and 80% of
       the Project                      local expendi-
                                        tures
(2)    Goods            4,600,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures
                                        and 80% of
                                        local expendi-
                                        tures
(3)    Consultant's     3,000,000       100%
       and audits
       services
       and
       Commissions
(4)    (a) Operating      800,000       100%
       Costs and Fees
       (b) Directors'     100,000       100% up to the
       and Nurses'                      time aggregate
       Salaries                         amount of dis-
                                        bursements
                                        under this
                                        subcategory
                                        reaches the
                                        equivalent of
                                        SDR 66,000
                                        and 50%
                                        thereafter
(5)    Refunding of     1,200,000       Amount due pur-
       Project Prepa-                   suant to
       tion Advance                     Section 2.02
                                        (c) of this
                                        Agreement
(6)    Unallocated      2,000,000
       total           15,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"Commissions" means the fees to be paid to the procurement agent or 
agents to be employed pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Operating Costs means operating costs of the PU and "Fees" means  the 
Page  10
fees to be paid to MPSSP personnel to be reassigned to the PU for assisting the PU in 
the carrying out of the Project.
(e)
"Directors' and Nurses' Salaries" means the salaries of the general 
directors of the Sanitary Units and 49 nurses to be employed by MPSSP in the Health 
Districts.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,570,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and 
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 
1, 1989; 
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures undertaken in each of the 
Borrower's departments (Departamentos) included in the Project unless the respective 
DHC has been created by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Subcategory 4 (b) 
unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association: (i) a revised salary 
structure for its personnel in all sanitary districts in the Borrower's territory; and 
(ii) a plan of action to be carried out by the Borrower to implement, and finance 
after June 1991, the revised salary structure referred to in (i) of this paragraph; 
both in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the coverage of basic health 
services and, in particular, to improve maternal and child health in Bolivia; (ii) 
improve the effectiveness of the delivery of health care services in the Borrower's 
territory, through the development of human resources in the public institutions 
providing health care services in the Borrower's territory; and (iii) strengthen the 
Borrower's central policy- making capability and coordination of investments in its 
health care sector, within the framework of a national health care sector development 
program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Provision of Basic Health Care Services
 
Extending basic health care services, in particular, maternal and child care, in 
the marginal and low-income areas of La Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba 
including pre-natal and post-natal care, reproductive health care, child development 
and nutritional control prevention and control of diarrhea and respiratory diseases 
through inter alia:
1.
construction, expansion or upgrading of about 167 health care services  
facilities and related buildings (such as, sector integrated centers, area health care 
centers, area health care centers, health regional center offices, warehouses and 
maintenance workshops);
2.
construction and equipment of one workshop/training center;
 
3.
acquisition and utilization of medical equipment I connection with Part A (1) 
hereof and provision of equipment and vehicles for maintenance of health care 
facilities;
4.
acquisition and utilization of about 52 vehicles, including about 28 four-wheel 
drive vehicles, 8 hydraulic loaders, 5 ambulances, 5 trucks, 5 station wagons and 1 
forklift;
5.
acquisition and distribution of laboratory equipment, basic drugs and medical 
supplies; and
6.
provision of training and related technical assistance to selected MPSSP staff 
Page  11
in respect of the distribution of the basic drugs referred to in paragraph (4) above.
Part B:
Human Resources Development
 
1.
Strengthening of MPSSP system for personnel supervision and in-service  training 
and improvement of interinstitutional coordination.
2.
Basic skills and technical training in the form of in-service and pre-service 
training of MPSSP personnel, other public and private entities personnel, and revision 
the revision of selected curricula in health schools.
3.
Health education campaigns for community leaders and development of links 
between the institutionalized medicine practice and the services provided by midwives:
1.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for institutional strengthening 
of the MPSSP and selected Implementing Entity, including:
(a)
the reorganization and strengthening of MPSSP's Planning Directorate, 
Directorate of Administration, Directorate of Human Resources and of the Borrower's 
sanitary units in each of La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba;
(b)
the rationalization of MPSSP's planning supervision and information 
management, through: (i) the development of planning procedures and a national health 
plan; (ii) the development of supervision norms; and (iii) the carrying out of a study 
for the development of a  management information system with a decentralized data 
base;
(c)
the development of MPSSP's capacity to manage financial, human and 
physical resources through: (i) the development of a budgeting system which will 
incorporate inter alia external aid and food aid information and carrying out of a 
study on alternative sources for health care financing;  (ii) the improvement of the 
personnel management system; (iii) the improvement of the acquisition, distribution 
and control of basic drugs and medical supplies; (iv) the preparation of water supply 
and basic sanitation projects in Santa Cruz and Cochabamba; and (v) the development of 
a maintenance system for the Borrower's health facilities; 
(d)
the provision of consultancy services and acquisition and utilization of 
certain office equipment and supplies in respect of paragraphs 1 (a) through 1 (c) 
above; and
(e)
the production of manuals with procedures for MPSSP's supervision of 
personnel and for the use of drugs in the medical facilities of the Borrower.
*   *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Plan of Action
Actions to be taken by the Borrower           Date (by)
1.   Allocate to public health, as a
     percentage of the Borrower's
     total budget, at least the
     following:
     (a)  3.2% for fiscal year 1990;
     (b)  3.4% for fiscal year 1991;
     (c)  3.6% for fiscal year 1992;
     (d)  3.8% for fiscal year 1993; and
     (e)  4.1% for fiscal year 1994
          and thereafter                      March 31, each year
2.   Allocate funds for primary health
     care, as a percentage of the total
     health budget of each Sanitary Unit
     at least:
     (a)  24% for fiscal year 1990;
     (b)  27% for fiscal year 1991;
Page  12
     (c)  30% for fiscal year 1992;
     (d)  32% for fiscal year 1993; and
     (e)  35% for fiscal year 1994,
          and thereafter                      March 31, each year
3.   Allocate personnel for primary
     health care, as a percentage
     of the total personnel employed
     in the Sanitary Units, at least:
     (a)  For La Paz and Cochabamba
          Sanitary Units:
    (i)   30% for fiscal year 1990;
   (ii)   33% for fiscal year 1991;
  (iii)   36% for fiscal year 1992;
   (iv)   39% for fiscal year 1993;
    (v)   42% for fiscal year 1994; and
   (vi)   46% for fiscal year 1995
          and thereafter                      March 31, each year
(b)  For the Santa Cruz Sanitary
     Units:
     (i)  30% for fiscal year 1990;
   (ii)   32% for fiscal year 1991;
  (iii)   34% for fiscal year 1992;
   (iv)   36% for fiscal year 1993;
    (v)   38% for fiscal year 1994; and
   (vi)   40% for fiscal year 1995
           and thereafter                    March 31, each year
4.   Authorize the Sanitary Units to
     administer no less than 90% of
     their own budgetary resources           January 1, 1992
5.   Apply the data provided by the
     Borrower's Epidemiological and
     Nutritional Surveillance System
     in the Allocation of food aid
     to beneficiaries of such aid            June 30, 1990
6.   Distribute, or cause to be dis-
     tributed at least 80% of the
     food aid available each fiscal
     year to pregnant and lactating
     mothers and children under
     5 years of age according to
     MPSSP criteria                          June 30, 1991
7.   Furnish to the Association for
     its review and comments, a draft
     Project reference summmary
     (resumen ejecutivo) to be prepared
     by each Sanitary Unit for later
     distribution to relevant
     participants and beneficiaries
     of the Project with information
     of the contents of the Project          March 31, 1990
8.   Publish the Project reference
     summary referred to in item 7
     above, and distribute it thereafter     June 30, 1990
9.   Rehabilitate at least 80% of its
     vehicles in the Sanitary Units,
     and maintain thereafter at least
     80% of such vehicles in operating
     condition                               December 31, 1990
10.  Collect detailed data on the
     acquisition and distribution of
Page  13
     medical drugs by at least 90% of the
     facilities in the Health Districts      January 31, 1991
11.  Prepare financial reports in the
     Health Districts reflecting
     inter alia the food aid, other
     foreign and local aid and the
     Health Districts' own resources
     being collected and spent               June 30, 1991
12.  Apply procedures developed
     from the study referred to in
     Par C (c) (i) of the Project
     in the elaboration of the Borrower's
     budget for primary health care          January 31, 1992
13.  Commence to operate a management
     information system satisfactory to the
     Association based on the results
     of the study referred to in
     Part C (b) (iii) of the Project
     as follows:
    (i)   with unified financial
          information                        December 31, 1990
   (ii)   with unified programmatic
          information                        December 31, 1991
  (iii)   with the remaining features
          of the system                      June 30, 1992
14.  Furnish to the Association for its
     review and comments, a program to
     improve the status of basic health
     care doctors (medicos de area),
     administrative staff and directors
     of Sanitary Units to a level satis-
     factory to the Borrower and the
     Association                             December 31, 1990
15.  Implement the program referred to
     in item 14 above, modified as
     needed to incorporate the
     Association's comments                  March 31, 1991
16.  Introduce in the management
     information system referred
     to in item 13 above the results of
     the survey provided from time to
     time by the Borrower's Instituto
     Nacional de Estadisticas to MPSSP
     pursuant to the terms of the
     agreement between them dated
     March 17, 1989                          December 31, 1992
17.  Staff the facilities of the Health     Districts in accordance with
     the criteria set forth in the
     Model, including the require-
     ment that all dentists staff
     employed in such Health Districts
     are part of the staff presently         as specified in the
     in the MPSSP payroll                    Model
18.  Achieve, and maintain thereafter,
     in each Health District, a ratio
     of doctors to nurses of no less
     than 3 to 1                             June 30, 1990
19.  Review with the Association the
     actions taken, or to be taken,
     and the policies developed to
     address the sectoral and cross-
     sectoral issues referred to in
Page  14
     the Borrower's letter to the
     Association dated October 31,
     1991                                    October 31, 1993
20.  Retain in the PU and each
     Sanitary Unit all technical
     documents prepared for purposes
     of the Project in adequately
     maintained Project archives             At all times
21.  Train no less than three
     midwives per health area of
     each Health District                    A date a year
                                             after the date on
                                             which the Borrower
                                             commenced to carry
                                             out a Sub-project
                                             in each Health
                                             District
22.  Implement a policy of
     decentralization of hiring
     and staffing decision making
     responsibilities from MPSSP
     to the Sanitary Unit                         December 31, 1991
23.  Increase the ration of basic
     health care doctors (medicos
     de area) to doctors in hospitals
     and health care centers, all
     employed by MPSSP, to at least:
    (i)   26.8% in fiscal year 1989;
   (ii)   27.6% in fiscal year 1990;
  (iii)   28.5% in fiscal year 1991;
   (iv)   29.3% in fiscal year 1992;
    (v)   30.2% in fiscal year 1993; and
   (vi)   31.1% in fiscal year 1994
          and thereafter                     March 31, each year
24.  Distribute to all sanitary units
     in the Borrower's territory
     leaflets describing the progress
     made in the implementation
     of the Project in the Sanitary
     Units                                   quarterly each year
25.  Implement the action plan referred
     to in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (c) (ii)  As specified in
     of this Agreement                       such action plan
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the  term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Page  15
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Blower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation; 
or
(c)
thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall  follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;  or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the  Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  16
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation  in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent, not exceeding in the 
aggregate the equivalent of $1,700,000 goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent and pharmaceutical drugs not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Shopping:
 
Materials and furniture or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $30,000 and works for expansion and upgrading of health posts and other 
works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,0000 per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,650,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers/contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
Page  17
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower  shall 
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be  selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the SIF Agreement
1.
The SIF Agreement shall provide inter alia the following rights and obligations:
 
(i)
the transfer as a grant of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
for Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project to SIF as shall be required 
by SIF for the carrying out of such parts of the Project;
(ii)
SIF's obligation to carry out Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project: 
(A) with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the perations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project; and (B) in accordance with the 
SIF Manuals;
(iii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 5 of this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of Parts A (1) and 
(2) of the Project;
(iv)
the right of MPSSP to inspect, each by itself, or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, the facilities, sites, works, plants and construction 
included in Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(v)
the right of MPSSP to obtain all such information as MPSSP or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of Parts A (1) 
and (2) of the Project and the benefits to be derived from such 
parts of the Project;
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of SIF 
to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by SIF to perform 
any of its obligations under the SIF Agreement; and
(vii)
the specific goods, works and services to be provided by SIF for 
purposes of Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project.
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of the Sub Grant Agreements
1.
Each Subgrant Agreement shall provide inter alia the following rights and 
obligations:
(i)
the transfer as grant of such part of the proceeds of the Credit 
to the Implementing Entity as shall be required by such 
Implementing Entity for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(ii)
the obligation of the Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
Page  18
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Subproject;
(iii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 5 of this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(iv)
the right of MPSSP to inspect, each by itself, or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, such goods and the facilities, sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(v)
the right of MPSSP to obtain all such information as MPSSP or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject;
(vi)
the right of MPSSP to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Entity to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
Subproject upon failure by any such entity to perform any of its 
Entity; and
(vii)
respective obligations under its Subgrant Agreement; and the 
specific goods, works and services to be provided by the 
Implementing Entity to be involved in the Project and, in 
particular, where applicable the Implementing Entity's obligation 
to operate and maintain the facilities constructed by such 
Implementing Entity under a Subproject.
