Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAl, USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 320-HO
REPORT AND RECOM1MENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO-THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1978
'This document has a restricted distributieni and may be used by recipients only in the perforitiance of
their of ficial duties. Its contents may niot otherw ise be disclosed witliotit 'A'orld Banik authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = L 2.00 (Lempiras)
L 1.00  =  US$0.50
L 1,000,000 = US$500,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
and
1 manzana = 0.7 hectares (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANAFOM       -  National Development Bank
BCH           -  Central Bank of Honduras
CABEI         -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA          -  Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR      -  National Forestry Corporation
DARNO         -  Agricultural Directorate for the North East Region
IDB           -  Inter-American Development Bank
INA           -  National Agrarian Institute
NNR           -  Ministry of Natural Resources
SECOPT        -  Ministry of Public Works and Communications
-uRH          -  Department of Hydrological Resources
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Honduras
Amount:              US$10.5 million
Terms:               Twenty years including five years of grace at an interest
rate oiE 7.5 per annum.
RelendinR Terms
for Agricultural
Credit Component: Government to BANAFOM at 9 percent; BANAFOM to subborrowers
at 11 percent with repayment terms for investment projects
not to exceed 16 years including up to 3 years of grace,
and for working capital not to exceed 12 months with
no grace.
Project
Description:      The project would be the first phase of a Guayape River
Watershed scheme for development of the entire Valley.
The objective of this first phase is to provide an
integrated package of assistance and services for about
1,200 small farmers and 70 agrarian reform settlements
with over 1,500 families in selected areas of the Valley.
This package will include investment and production
credit, extension services, machinery pool services,
small scale irrigation schemes for some settlements,
rural road improvement, and improved research facilities.
The project will include technical assistance and training
for th,e project unit and preparation of an agricultural
project for possible future Bank lending. The risks
associated with the project are possible lack of farmer
acceptance of the technological packages, and weak insti-
tutiornal support because of scarcity of qualified personnel
and poor coordination between responsible agencies. In
order to deal with these potential problems, a modest
sized project has been designed with a project unit which
will have adequate staff and authority to carry out the
project, and the technology to be utilized will be based
on the traditional pattern of farming activities in the
project area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions
Local Foreign Total
On-Farm Investment
Small Farmers                      1.5       1.2      2.7
Rainfed Settlements                0.6       0.9      1.5
Irrigated Settlements              1.1       0.9      2.0
Tractors                            *        0.2      0.2
Sub-total                       3.2       3.2     6.4
Supporting Investment
Machinery Pool Equipment           0.1      04       0.5
Catacamas Research Station          *        0.1      0.1
Rural Roads (35 km)                0.4       0.5      0.9
Sub-total                       0.5       1.0     1.5
Technical Assistance
Consultants                         *        0.5      0.5
Project Preparation.Study           *        0.8     0.8
Sub-total                        -        1.3     1.3
Project Administration               1.8       0.6      2.3
Total Baseline Costs            5.5       61   11.6
Contingencies
Physical                           0.2       0.2     0.4
Price                              1.3       1.3     2.6
Total Project Cost                   7.0       7.6    14.6
* Less than US$0.1 million.
Financing Plan:                                     (US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign   Total  Percentage
Bank                       2.9      7.6       10.5      72
Government                 3.8        -        3.8      26
Beneficiaries               0.3       -        0.3       2
Total                   7.0      7.6       14.6     100



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank                FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual.            1.3      2.8      2.9      2.4     1.1
Cumulative         1.3      4.1      7.0     9.4    10.5
Rate of Return:      21 percent.
Appraisal Report:   1953-HO, dated  May 5; 1978>






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of US$10.5 million for
the Guayape Regional Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, with interest at 7.5 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 10, 1978. The main findings of the Report are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only 1 percent
a year and was estimated at US$390 in 1976, one of the lowest levels in the
Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is evident from a variety of indicators.
Malnutrition is severe: about three-quarters of pre-school children are
believed to suffer from protein and caloric deficiencies, and infant mortality
is estimated at 118 per thousand live births. It is estimated that roughly 60
percent of the population has no access to piped water and about 80 percent
lives without any form of sanitary waste disposal. Furthermore, these are
country averages which conceal substantial regional disparities, as living
conditions in the rural areas, which account for about two-thirds of the
population, are much poorer than in the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance has been the
continued dependence of thLe economy on the production and export of a few
agricultural commodities, especially bananas, whose prices depend on a
fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly influenced
by domestic weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated when
extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in 1974
reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one-half the level of
1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3 percent.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Second
Education Project (P--2243-HO) dated February 23, 1978.



-2-
5.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. A serious
lack of basic infrastructure and deficieni deveLorme rt  o4-<-ci-,  in the past
have left Honduras' agricultural resources underutilized. In addition,
the mountainous topography of the countr,y has made the expansion of the road
network slow and costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, and
major achievements include the establishment of a basic transportation net-
work connecting the main population centers, and a considerable expansion of
electric power service.
6.        Much land suitable for agriculture is still available, and the
country has sizeable forest resources, but agricultural output only grew at
about 2 percent yearly between 1950 and 1975. Uneven land distribution and
deficient credit, technical services and development programs have kept
agricultural growth far below its potential.
7.        Manufacturing industry, which is highly concentrated in the cities
of San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa, now accounts for about 16 percent of GDP
and provides employment to about 10 percent of the labor force. During the
1960s, the manufacturing sector grew at a low annual rate (3.8 percent) owing
to the small size of the domestic market, the lack of infrastructure, and the
inability of domestic firms to take advantage of the opportunities offered by
the Central American Common Market. Manufacturing growth, however, almost
doubled in the 1970s (during 1970-76, real value added grew at an annual rate
of 7 percent) because of the increase in both domestic and foreign demand and
the consequent expansion and modernization of existing and new plants.
Government Development Efforts
8.        Since 1972, development efforts have increased substantially and
several measures have been taken to lay the basis for the current improved
economic outlook over the longer term. A land reform program which began
in December 1972 aims at greatly improving land utilization as well as
increasing the income and employment of the poorest peasants through the
transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the national-
ization of timber rights in January 1974. A new forestry law established
guidelines for private sector participation in forestry development and
created the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (rOHDEFOR). COHDEFOR
is in charge of all forest industry policies and activitics. and `Ls expected
to exploit forest resources more rationally, increase lumber exports, and
provide more employment for rural Hondurans. The third major achievement was
an improvement in Government planning and executing capacity, particularly in
infrastructure, which has resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed
investment from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and about
7.6 percent in 1976. The Government has also made an effort to increase
investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen public finances
through tax reforms and better tax administration. A 1975 tax reform made the
tax on coffee exports an ad-valorem tax with marginal rates ranging from



-3-
10 percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices, substituted a 3 percent
value added tax for the sales tax, and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes
and liquor.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        While Honduras was adversely affected by one of the worst hurricanes
in its history in 1974, it had also to contend with the oil price rise of that
year and the later OECD recession. As a result, during 1974-75, total GDP
remained almost stagnant, severe balance of payments difficulties arose and
the country's savings capacity was seriously reduced. Import prices grew
almost three times as rapidly as export prices, and the terms of trade
deteriorated by about one-fifth. The resource gap, which was equal to about
1 percent of GDP during 1972-73, averaged 11.6 percent during 1974-75. The
rise in consumer prices, which had averaged 2.7 percent a year between 1966
and 1973, accelerated to 13 percent in 1974 before declining to 8 percent in
1975.
10.       A high level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production and the doubling of coffee export prices were the major factors
responsible for an improvenient of the economic situation in 1976. Real GDP
grew at about 6 percent. Merchandise export earnings grew by about 31 percent
in current terms over 1975, about half of it as a result of higher coffee
prices. Government tax revenues increased from 10.8 percent of GDP in
1972-73 to 12.8 percent in 1976 and, while there was a substantial increase
in public current expenditures, public savings were estimated at 2.7 percent
of GDP in 1976 compared to an average 2.2 percent in 1972-73. However, as
investment expenditures for hurricane reconstruction and development purposes
were stepped up considerabLy, the overall deficit of the Central Government
increased from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1970 to 4.9 percent in 1976.
11.       In 1977, economic expansion continued, with real GDP growth estimated
at about 7 percent, due mainly to the expansion of export volumes (about 9 per-
cent) and of public investmnent (over 15 percent), and to continuing high
coffee prices. The balance of payments improved, with larger coffee and
banana export earnings reducing substantially the current account deficit and
adding significantly to foreign exchange reserves.
Growth Prospects
12.       The growth prospects for 1978-82 are good.  Real GDP is expected to
increase at an annual rate of about 6 percent, barring natural disasters. Real
exports should be able to grow at about 7 percent a year, reflecting continued
recovery of banana production from the September 1974 hurricane, increased
coffee production owing to higher yields and new plantings, expansion of sugar
production, an increase of lumber exports made possible by the currently
planned expansion of sawmill capacity, increased beef production, also the
result of an ongoing program, expansion of fruit and vegetable production for
export and promotion of tourism. Coffee prices, although declining from the
unusually high 1977 level, are expected to remain above the 1976 level for two



- 4 -
more years. In addition, the Government plans to accelerate economic growth
over the medium-term through an ambitious public investment program designed
to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's development
process. The presently designed development strategy calls for large public
investments in infrastructure, in export diversification through forestry
development and tourism, and in agriculture to implement the agrarian reform
program and increase productivity.
13.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional increases in taxes and the tariffs of public enterprises
in the 1979-82 period as well as for careful control of other current expendi-
tures. The Government is developing a series of proposals to mobilize addi-
tional domestic resources in support of its development program. However,
given the present and foreseeable poverty of the country, even with a greater
revenue effort and current outlay control, Honduras needs external assistance
in excess of the foreign exchange component of development projects suitable
for international finance to enable the Government to implement the public
investment program.
14.       While real exports are expected to increase at about seven percent a
year during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As
the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to
the investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required. The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of US$900 million for the six-year period 1977-82, of
which about US$255 million will be disbursed from commitments made through the
end of 1976.
15.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency is esti-
mated to be US$418 million at the end of 1977, US$766 million if undisbursed
commitments are included. In the past, Honduras managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is likely to rise from about 6.5 percent in 1977 to
about 13 percent by the mid-1980s.
16.       Although the IDB was Honduras' largest creditor as of December 31,
1977 with loans outstanding -- including undisbursed -- totaling US$269.6
million, 71 percent of this estimated total is repayable in local currency, so
that IDB's share of the public debt repayable in foreign currency of US$766 is
about 25.1 percent. The Bank Group holds 27.5 percent of the public debt
outstanding -- including undisbursed -- repayable in foreign currency. CABEI



-5-
accounts for 16.2 percent of the total, the US Government for 15.0 percent,
Venezuela for 6.6 percent, privately held debt for about 7.2 percent and
other debt for 2.4 percent.
17.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of lending by the principal external
agencies apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture and educa-
tion, IDB on transport, agriculture and forestry, health, education and
housing, and CABEI on transport, industry, power and housing. It is expected
that AID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same sectors in the
future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture, forestry, transport,
industry and power. The lending of the external agencies from 1950-1977 was
as follows:
IBRD     IDA      AID     IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
Total Gross Lending 1950-1977    177.5    53.2    113.4   294.7   199.2    838.0
Gross Lending 1950-1965             25.9    12.5      26.7    27.2       8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1977            151.6    40.7      86.7   267.5   191.1    737.6
Sectoral Lending 1966-1977
Transport                         88.3      5.0        -    32.1    74.7    200.1
Power                             60.3     9.5         -        -    20.9      90.7
Telecommunications                   -        -        -    14.7    10.1       24.8
Education                          3.0      3.0     10.5    17.4        -      33.9
Health                               -        -      2.6    33.2    10.2       46.0
Housing                              -        -      5.0    12.5    16.5       34.0
Agriculture and Forestry             -    23.2      48.5   155.4      4.1    231.2
Industry                             -        -      5.0      2.2    33.2      40.4
Other                                -        -     15.1        -    21.4      36.5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
18.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received sixiteen Bank loans totalling US$177.2 million and ten
IDA credits totalling US$57.6 million, both net of cancellations. As of
December 31, 1977, a tot;al of US$89.0 million remained to be disbursed on
eleven operations for ports, electricity, roads, livestock, education and
agricutural credit. The proposed loan would raise the total of Bank Group
assistance from US$234.8 million to US$245.3 million. Execution of projects
financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31,
1977, and IFC investments as of January 31, 1978, as well as notes on the
execution of on-going projects.



-6-
19.       In the past, Bank< Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, witele  r-         fac fi£tJes nampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved ifl iY0, now-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, there have been operations for a Second Livestock project; a First
Education project, which included as major components primary and secondary
teacher training schools and support for vocational training centers and the
national agricultural secondary school; a First Agricultural Credit project
to finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on assisting agrarian
reform settlements through investment credits and a substantial technical
assistance program; and a Second Education. Project to heln ff-_.:      Ra'.
primary schools and agricultural vocational education.
20.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform. We
would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments,
while continuing to lend for physical infrastructure where there are still
deficiencies to be overcome. A follow-on to the First Agricultural Credit
Project and additional rural development projects, now being identified9 are
planned.  Bank Group support is also being considered for anindbst_'',al cred-';
project, COHDEFOR's pulp and paper project, and the development of  OnctonS
tourism potential. In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assisting the
construction of a network of feeder and access roads to support the Government s
agricultural program. We also hope to help finance power development, includ 
ing participation in an interim project designed to meet electric pover
requirements until the large (US$400 million) El Cajon hydroelectric pro"ect
comes on stream in the mid-1980s.  The latter project, which has been idanti-
fied as the most economic means of meeting Honduras' lo-Oerr 1s.-  po-
would generate excess energy that might be sold to neigYhboring countries in
the early years of its operation. It is expected that the Bank, !DB and GABET
will contribute to the El Cajon effort, and the Bank has been helping Honduras
contact bilateral sources to seek additional concessional financing.
21.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will drop from 29.2 percent in 1976 to 26.4
percent by 1981 because of increasing lending by other externa± adamnias and
commercial borrowing.  The Bank Group share of debt service in 1976 ~<as 24.6
percent and is projected at about 25.3 percent by 1981.
22.       Until recently, IFC's activities in Honduras included a i1b9  ioan and-
a share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$82,500 respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75?000 share
subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de Gen:to
America (COPINO) in 1969.  COPINO was established to develop an ined; -ri10
project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series of
obstacles to project development arose and efforts to go forward with `@- ere
virtually halted in 1971.  While current plans for the C^iancho frc>      lrcus-
tries project do not include a role for COPINO, the IFC is assisting t'e
Government in creating an organizational structure for the prc4ea: c-_    S
ing a technical partner. In December 1977 the Executive Directors approved a



-7-
US$9.0 million loan, and up to US$1.0 million equivalent equity investment,
for Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V. for plant expansion aimed at almost
doubling its production capacity.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
2
23.      Honduras has a total area of about 112,000 km .  Central and western
Honduras have a rugged mountainous terrain; the lower, flatter areas, where
slopes are under 20 percent, include the Sula Valley and the Aguan Valley on
the north coast, the Nacaome-Choluteca plain on the south coast (Pacific),
the Guayape Valley in the central part of the country, the Mosquitia region
in the east, and many small river valleys.
24.      The predominance of steep, rugged terrain limits the agricultural
potential, but there are still substantial possibilities for expanding
land under cultivation. About 26 percent of the total land area is suitable
for agriculture. While only about one-third of this is suitable for intensive
cultivation, because of soil conditions or steep slopes, only 28 percent of
the land suited to annual crops and about 18 percent of land suited to perennial
crops is presently cultivated.
25.      The lack of availability of water is a serious constraint to increas-
ing agricultural production because of the long dry periods in most of the
country and the rapidly increasing man/land ratio. Irrigation development in
Honduras is still in its early stages, and presently most irrigated land is
under private ownership. Government irrigation works are few (about 10,000
ha) and are poorly managed and underutilized; however, the problems which have
hampered development of irrigation (e.g. a lack of meteorological and water
resource information, the absence of an adequate legal framework, a shortage
of expert manpower) are now being addressed. A comprehensive water law is
under preparation and the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) has reorganized
and strengthened the Depiartment of Hydrological Resources (URH), which is
exploring a number of possible irrigation projects.
Agriculture in the Econc'y
26.      Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy.  It con-
tributes about one third of GDP, provides employment for approximately two
thirds of the economically active population, and generates close to 70
percent of export earnings. The growth of the sector since 1969 has been
erratic. Between 1970 and 1973, it grew at an annual rate of only about 2
percent, due to adverse weather conditions and the effect of withdrawal from
the Central American Common Market in 1971. In 1974 it declined by almost
9 percent in relation to the previous year primarily as a result of the 1974
hurricane, and in 1975, mainly because of a drought, output dropped by a
further 6 percent. In L976, however, because of favorable weather conditions
as well as expansion of the area under cultivation, output increased by 4.0
percent.



- 8 -
27.      While major agricultural exports, which consist mainly of bananas,
coffee, lumber, sugar, beef and cotton, declined at an average annual rate of
17 percent in real terms during the 1974-75 period for the reasons cited above,
total agricultural exports increased by 19 percent in 1976. In that year,
bananas contributed over 26 percent to total exports, coffee 25 percent and
lumber 9 percent.
28.      In 1973 crops accounted for some 65 percent of value added in agri-
culture; livestock and poultry, 23 percent; forestry, 11 percent; and fisheries,
the remainder. In 1973-74, out of the total value of agricultural production,
bananas contributed 30 percent; coffee, 15 percent; maize, 10 percent; beef,
8 percent; and milk, 9 percent. Since 1950, the producution of bananas and
coffee has grown considerably faster than that of corn and beans, the staple
food of the rural population. Corn, which is grown in most parts of the
country and far exceeds other crops in acreage, is often inter-planted or
rotated with beans. Yields of these, as well as most other crops in Honduras,
are generally low. Improved seed is not widely used, fertilization is minimal,
and pests and diseases take a heavy toll. The major exception is bananas,
which account for about 40 percent of the total value of all food crops. Some
65 percent of the crop is produced by two foreign companies, which also carry
out their own research. Coffee is grown by many small farmers and serves as a
major source of cash income. In spite of traditional production practices and
low yields, coffee output has grown steadily because of an expansion of
acreage cultivated.
Rural Population, Income and Employment
29.      About 70 percent of the population, or over two million, lives in
rural areas, and about 60 percent of the total labor force, or over 450,000
persons, are estimated to be involved in agriculture. A 1967-68 survey of
income and expenditures indicated that the poorest 40 percent of the popula-
tion was almost all rural. In 1976, about 70 percent of the rural population
fell within the Bank's rural poverty target group. Underemployment in the
rural sector is substantial and employment in agriculture is highly seasonal.
30.      There are few amenities in rural areas, and nutrition and education
and health services are particularly deficient. The national average daily
caloric intake is approximately 1,850, about 90 percent of the minimum daily
requirement, and the poorest 50 percent of the population subsists on an
average daily intake of only 1,465 calories. In 1974, about 47 percent of the
population was illiterate; 52 percent of agriculture workers had no formal
education and another 27 percent had fewer than three years of schooling.
Anemia, malaria and intestinal infection are common, rural public water
systems are rare, and excreta disposal systems are either unavailable or
generally unsanitary.
Land Distribution
31.      The latest available data on farm size, distribution and land use are
derived from the 1965 agricultural census. (There are no reliable data on land
ownership.) While there has been some change since that time as a result of



- 9 -
agrarian reform activity, these figures indicate the magnitude of the problem
with which the Government is now attempting to deal. The data show that
178,000 farms occupied 2.4 million ha of land. Nearly 70 percent, or 120,000
of these farms were less than 7 ha in size (average 2.5 ha), and they accounted
for less than 15 percent of total farm land. About one-third of rural families
are landless.
32.       The underutilization of productive land stems, to a great extent,
from the unequal distribution of land. Many of the larger farms are located
on productive soils in regions well served by roads, but are used for grazing
or other extensive operations. Small farmers, on the other hand, tend to
occupy hilly, inaccessible areas where soils are unsuited for intensive crop
production, and, consequently, they usually grow annual subsistence crops. As
a result of this pattern of land distribution and use, as well as inadequate
agricultural research and extension services, marketing and support infrastruc-
ture, and a lack of timely and steady supply of inputs, the small farm subsector
is characterized by low productivity, a traditional and inefficient technological
base, and underemployed resources.
Agrarian Reform
33.       The skewed distribution of landholdings and the extreme poverty of
the rural population have given rise to numerous land invasions and increasing
agrarian unrest in the past decade. Three fairly well-organized peasant
organizations have emerged claiming a total membership of over 100,000, and
these organizations have provided strong political support for agrarian reform.
34.       The Government which took office in December 1972 gave the highest
priority to the problems of rural poverty and land reform. It moved immediately
to adopt a temporary land reform measure (Decree 8) which provided for obliga-
tory government leasing of un- and underutilized land to groups of landless
peasants. Under this measure more than 23,000 families were settled on about
75,000 ha during the 1973-74 period.
35.       Decree 8 was replaced in January 1975 by a comprehensive agrarian
reform law (Decree 170). Under this law, allowable maximum farm sizes range
from 100 ha in irrigation districts to 2,000 ha in the least developed areas
of the country. Areas laLrger than the indicated maximums are subject to
expropriation if: (a) within six months of the date of the law, the land is
not operated directly by the owner; (b) within three years (by January 1978),
the farm is not exploited to the efficiency standards specified by the law;
and (c) the land is in excessively fragmented units. Lands leased under
Decree 8 were automatically expropriated. Land in bananas, sugarcane, African
oil palm, coffee, pineapple, citrus and tobacco are not subject to expropria-
tion as long as efficient production is maintained.
36.      Implementing regulations were issued and land expropriation and
redistribution was started under Decree 170 at the end of 1975. In the
1975-76 period about 21,500 families received over 65,000 ha of land.



- 10 -
Overall, in the 1973-76 period about 22 percent of landless families received
land under the agrarian reform. For 1977, the government planned to settle
about 10,000 families on about 60,000 ha, and plans call for the settlement of
12,000 families per year in the future.
37.      Farmers are not settled individually, but in groups (asentamientos),
and they work on a joint basis. The larger farm size makes it possible to
take advantage of economies of scale in providing credit and other inputs.
While adverse weather conditions during the 1974-75 period made it impossible
to evaluate fully the performance of the new settlements, the results to date
have been mixed. Some settlements have disintegrated because of poor orga-
nization, inadequate government assistance programs or because they were
set up on poor or insufficient land. Others have achieved good production
rates. Overall, about 50 percent of the land included in the agrarian reform
is farmed compared with a 22 percent national average for land in farms.
There is good potential for increased productivity as demonstrated by the fact
that when price supports for basic grains were raised for the 1975/76 season,
agrarian reform settlements responded with substantially increased production.
38.       The Government has set up technical assistance, credit, training
and other programs to support its agrarian reform efforts, and it has been
assisted in this by the USAID's agriculture sector and other loans, the
IDB's Aguan Valley Development loans and by various UNDP projects. The
Government program have only shown.limited results, however, primarily
because of the institutional weaknesses and lack of coordination described
below. Although land distribution must continue if a viable agrarian reform
is to be accomplished and rural living standards improved, complementary
programs must be given the highest priority. A number of essential measures
must be taken, including: (a) establishing an effective institutional frame-
work to coordinate and execute well designed investments program for the
development of the small farm subsector; (b) training and properly organizing
small landholders and landless campesinos into cooperatives or other functional
groups; and (d) conducting applied research to develop high yield and disease
resistant crop varieties, and low-cost production systems and improved farming
practices for the small farm subsector.
Government Agricultural Sector Strategy
39.      The National Development Plan for 1974-78 has two broad objectives
for agriculture: (a) improvement of agricultural incomes for lower income
groups; and (b) acceleration of agricultural production and export growth.
On the production side, the Government's plans call for bringing additional
areas into diversified production and shifting land already in use to higher
value crops. In addition, the Government plans to increase productivity and
production of basic grains, vegetables, oils, and livestock to exploit more
fully the scope for increased exports and import substitution. The agrarian
reform program will be the Government's principal tool to help achieve
these goals and to reduce poverty and improve income distribution in rural
areas. The Government has placed high priority on the program in terms
of resource allocation and has sought, and is receiving, substantial external
assistance to accelerate it.



- 11 -
Sector Institutions
40.      In the public sector, the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), the
Agrarian Reform Institute (INA), and the National Development Bank (BANAFOM)
are the principal institutions providing assistance to agriculture. Although
the MNR is charged with establishment of overall sectoral priorities, it has not
been able to accomplish this effectively because of the division of operating
responsibilities among a number of institutions. The MNR is also responsible
for the formulation of specific projects, the provision of extension and
machinery and research services, and through the DRH, for irrigation projects,
as noted above. The MNR has recently been reorganized and decentralized to
improve service. The extension service has been expanded and improved in
recent years, but still requires further expansion, training and better
organization to enable it to respond effectively to the needs of the small
farmers and agrarian reform settlements. On-going assistance from the Bank,
USAID and the IDB is designed to help accomplish these objectives.
41.      INA is responsible for the implementation of the agrarian reform
program. It identifies expropriable land, takes the steps necessary to
acquire it, organizes campesino groups, and trains and provides guidance to
them in operating their settlements until they achieve full cooperative status
and gain title to the land. Although it has distributed a substantial amount
of land, it tends to move slowly. It is now being reorganized to improve
administrative procedures, and its professional staff is being upgraded.
42.      BANAFOM is the major source of agricultural credit, providing over
80 percent of lending to agriculture from banking institutions, and almost
all lending to small farmers and agrarian reform settlements. BANAFOM has
also been responsible for government industrial lending, marketing and price
stabilization programs.
43.       Small farmer lending, which was initiated in 1952 by BANAFOM, has
been financed primarily by USAID and the IDB, but has not been very successful,
in part because of poor administration by BANAFOM, and in part because of the
weakness of complementary Government programs to provide technical assistance,
agricultural inputs and marketing services. BANAFOM also has serious finan-
cial problems which stem from inadequate management of its marketing activities
and rising overdues and defaults on its credit operations, not only from its
small farmer/agrarian reform clients but from larger farmers as well.
44.       Since the small farmer/agrarian reform program is the Government's
highest priority and the great majority of agrarian reform settlements (65 per-
cent) and small farmers (80 percent) have not yet received any assistance,
action is now being taken to strengthen and reorganize BANAFOM to provide
effective support for this program and to improve its other agricultural lend-
ing activities. USAID and IDB are actively involved in assisting the Govern-
ment in this task. In late 1976, BANAFOM established a special committee to
review difficult loan cases and make recommendations for required action
(write-offs, rescheduling or legal action), and this process is now underway,
but should be accelerated. It has been decided to terminate BANAFOM's



- 12 -
industrial lending and make it strictly an agricultural bank. Also the Govern-
ment has recently approved a draft Decree that would set up a new Marketing
Institute (Instituto de Comercializacion y Mercado de Granos) for the grain
stabilization program. BANAFOM's agricultural lending program wilL be restruc-
tured, and a special program for small farmer/agrarian reform lending, that
would be closely coordinated with other government support programs, will be
created. It is expected that the Marketing Institute decree will become
effective shortly, but the details of the reorganization of BANAFOM's lending
activities are still being worked out. In order that the Bank may have a
continuing dialogue with the Government on the future organization and role of
BANAFOM, it has been agreed that the Government would keep the Bank informed
on the progress of the proposed reorganization and give it sufficient oppor-
tunity to comment on the final reorganization proposal (section 4.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Sector Coordination
45.      Authority and responsibility in providing public services to agri-
culture are fragmented and duplication of effort sometimes occurs among
agencies. Both at the pre-project and at the project implementation stages,
coordination is weak. The Government has recently taken steps to deal with
this problem by creating a coordinating committee within the Presidency
chaired by the Secretary of the Planning Council. This committee will have a
technical secretariat to assist it in preparing the agriculture sector budget,
coordinating annual work plans and supervising their execution.
Previous Bank Agricultural Projects
46.      To date, IDA has provided three credits to Honduras, totaling
US$23.2 million, for agricultural development. Two of these credits (197-HO
of March 1970 and 434-HO of October 1973) were for commercial livestock
development with the objective of diversifying and strengthening the balance
of payments by increasing beef exports. The first loan was evaluated in the
Operations Evaluation Audit dated February 28, 1978. It was concluded that,
while the project did help increase livestock production and beef exports, it
did so in part through more extensive production rather than primarily through
improved production techniques as originally contemplated. Although the
second project has not yet been audited, it was noted in the audit of the
first project that since it was basically a continuation of the first project,
there may have been a conflict with the agrarian reform (which was beginning
about the time the second project was appraised), to the extent that one of
the principal targets of the reform was extensive livestock production on land
better suited for cropping.
47.       The evidence is still not available to determine whether livestock
project activities impeded the agrarian reform program to any significant
extent; however, the Bank's lending objectives for agriculture in Honduras
have changed since approval of the Second Project. The US$14 million First
Agricultural Credit (628-HO) approved in May 1976 has as one of its principal
objectives the strengthening of the agrarian reform. It provides credit to
agrarian reform settlements and commercial farmers for crop and mixed crop/
livestock development as well as technical assistance and equipment to



- 13 -
strengthen INA and the extension service. It also provides a training program
for local technicians. The Bank has recently approved subloans of about
US$1.5 million for agrarian reform settlements under this Credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The staff appraisal report (No. 1953 dated May 5, 1978) entitled
"Guayape Regional Development Project," is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III. The
project was appraised in October/November 1977, and negotiations were held
in Washington, April 18-20, 1978. The principal representatives for the
Borrower were Mr. Mario Daccarett, Director of the Agricultural Directorate
for the Northeast Region (DARNO), and Mr. Angel Ordonez, Director of Public
Credit of the Ministry of Finance.
A.   Project Area
49.       The project area, the Guayape Valley, is located in the central part
of the Department of Olancho, in east central Honduras. The Valley has
an area of 93,000 ha and a population of 47,000, 60 percent of whom live in
rural areas. In terms of land capability, close to 50 percent of the area
is suitable for sustained agriculture without major limitations, while the
remainder is mainly suited to pastures. There are large unutilized water
resources, and most of the flat areas are covered with good deep, well-drained
soils suitable for irrigation. There is substantial potential for crop
diversification and increased production.
50.      The Valley is included in the Government's plans as a priority area
for development, and the proposed loan would help finance a first phase
project. At the same time the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) is financing a master plan, which is expected to begin later this year,
that would provide the basis for a second phase Guayape project aimed at the
integral development of the entire watershed.
51.      Of the total of over 5,000 farms in the Guayape, about 3,900 or
almost 80 percent are under 20 ha and represent only 15.5 percent of the total
area. There are some 60 agrarian reform settlements with an area of about
4500 ha. On average there are about 20 to 25 families per settlement, and
about 3 to 4 ha per family. Over the next three years the Government plans to
add about 25 settlements annually. Agriculture is at a low level of develop-
ment in the project area. The small farm subsector is characterized by low
productivity and a high level of underemployment. Small farmers grow mainly
basic grains using primitive farming techniques, relying on local unimproved
seeds with minimum use of fiertilizers and pesticides. Corn is the most impor-
tant crop; however, in recent years, rice has expanded, and sorghum is becoming
more and more popular, replacing corn and, to a certain extent, beans. Soy-
beans have been introduced recently and have shown promising initial results.
Cotton is grown only in the! larger farms, since Government authorization is
necessary to grow cotton, and permits are now only granted to those growing
more than 10 ha because areas of that size can be sprayed from the air.



- 14 -
52.       Irrigated agriculture has not been developed until now, although
the first scheme, "La Puzunca" (300 ha) is scheduled to be constructed shortly,
and further extension of irrigation (about 12,000 ha) will be considered under
the CIDA financed study. It has been agreed that since the Puzunca scheme
will serve some of the agrarian reform settlements to be included in the
project it will be completed by April 1, 1979 (section 3.04(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
53.      MNR operates a small research station in the Guayape at Catacamas,
where limited variety testing, fertilization, and herbicide trials are carried
out. The station, however, lacks proper buildings and laboratory facilities
and experienced research personnel. The research program should be strength-
ened and oriented toward the major crops of the valley and development of
farming systems more suitable for the small farm subsector.
54.      There is a road network in the Valley, consisting of 123 km of all-
weather roads that link the two main towns (Juticalpa and Catacamas) with
the more important villages; however, additional all-weather roads are needed
in the project area. The reconstruction of the road from Tegucigalpa to
Catacamas is presently being carried out under the Bank financed Seventh
Highway Project (signed December 1976).
55.      Electricity, water supply, and waste disposal systems are presently
available only in Juticalpa and Catacamas. However, electricity supply
will shortly be increased, and the distribution network will be expanded to
reach most villages in the Valley; 13 health centers, financed through an IDB
loan, are being established; and the IDA education credit approved in March
1978 will support the expansion of rural educational facilities in the Valley.
B.   Project Objectives
56.       The proposed project, which would serve as the first phase of the
Guayape River Watershed Development Scheme, would help set up an integrated
system for production of basic grains, soybeans, and cotton by providing assis-
tance to about 1,500 families grouped in 70 agrarian reform settlements as
well as 1,200 independent small farmers. 1/ The Government places high prior-
ity on the project as a prototype operation to develop methods of program
coordination and delivery of credit, technical assistance and other inputs to
small farmers and agrarian reform settlements. If successful, this approach
would be used for the second phase project to be prepared with assistance
from CIDA. With a proven institutional structure, it will be possible in
a second project to expand production and infrastructure programs and to
provide complementary social infrastructure on the basis of the CIDA study's
analysis of regional needs.
I/   Defined as families with less than 20 ha of land who derive at least
75 percent of family income from farming and whose farm assets do not
exceed the equivalent of US$30,000.



- 15 -
C.   Project Description
57.       Project components are as follows:
(1) Subloans for On-farm Investments and Agricultural Production for:
(a) 1,200 small farmers
(b) 54 rainfed agrarian reform settlements
(c) 16 irrigated agrarian reform settlements
58.       Agrarian reform settlements would receive subloans for land clearing,
farm machinery and equipment, and grain stores. Additionally, small scale
irrigation works based on diversion, pumping or groundwater schemes will
be financed for some agrarian reform settlements.  Independent small farmers
would receive loans for motorized back pack sprayers, farm tools and small
grain stores. The project would also provide about 20 tractors to agrarian
reform settlements that demonstrate need and the capability to operate and
maintain a tractor efficiently. Production credit would be made available
to cover costs of improved seeds, agricultural chemicals, hired labor, and
machinery services.
59.       Development oE farms under rainfed conditions would be based on a
more diversified cropping pattern, going from just corn to corn, beans, soy-
beans, sorghum and cotton. Likewise, development of irrigated agriculture
as a pilot program would focus on a diversified cropping pattern including
soybeans, cotton and rice. It has been agreed that the Government would grant
cotton growing permits to small farmers, provided that they have adequate
programs of insect control administered under the technical supervision of the
project unit. Also, the Government would undertake a pest control study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for cotton growing areas in the
Department of Olancho to provide a basis for a control program for the project
area when it is completed. Since it is too late to do the study in the 1978
growing season it would be done in 1979, and the study and program would be
submitted to the Bank for comment by March 1, 1980 (section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
(2) Supporting Services:
(a)  machinery pool equipment including four tractors,
four land levellers, four grain harvesters and one truck;
(b) expansion of the Catacamas Research Station;
(c) construction and improvement of about 35 km of rural
roads; and
(d) road maintenance equipment.
60.       The machinery to be purchased would expand the MNR's machinery pool
service to ensure that farmers in the project have access to heavy machinery
services. Funds for the research station would finance construction of
facilities and the purchase of equipment.



- 16 -
(3) Technical Assistance:
(a) 120 man/month of consultants' services to support
Project Unit Activities; and
(b) a project preparation study.
61.       Consultant assistance for the Project Unit and training of local
staff would be provided by four resident specialists in irrigation, agriculture,
extension and credit. The project would also help finance a regional develop-
ment study for the Aguan Valley. The Government has been carrying out a large
scale agricultural investment program in the Aguan, and a comprehensive
regional development study with emphasis on flood control and irrigation is
urgently needed. The UNDP has prepared a plan for undertaking such a study
which is estimated to cost US$2.0 million and which will take about three
years to complete. Because the UNDP does not have sufficient funds, the
Government has requested Bank assistance in financing this study. It will be
executed by the UNDP and is expected to identify and prepare future projects
for possible Bank financing. It has been agreed that the consultants and the
terms of reference for the studies to be undertaken in preparing the regional
plan will be satisfactory to the Bank, and the execution of a project agreement
satisfactory to the Bank between the UNDP and the Government will be a condi-
tion of disbursement for this component (section 3.07(b) and Schedule 1,
section 4(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(4) Project Administration:
62.       The following administrative items would be financed under the
project:  costs of buildings, equipment and vehicles, overhead costs, incre-
mental administrative costs of DARNO, and establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project. Funds would also be supplied for overseas
training of some of the technical staff of the Project Unit.
D.   Project Cost and Financing
63.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$14.6 million, of
which US$7.6 million, or 52 percent, represents foreign costs. The proposed
loan of US$10.5 million represents 72 percent of total project costs, and will
finance all foreign exchange expenditures and US$2.9 million of local costs.
The balance of financing for the project would be provided by the Government
(26 percent) and project beneficiaries (2 percent). Local cost financing is
justified for the reasons discussed in paragraph 13 above. A project cost
breakdown is shown in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report.
64.       The cost of consultant services is estimated at US$5,000 per man/
month. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 20 percent of the
investment cost of irrigation facilities and 10 percent of base costs on all
other investment items. Price increases have been estimated at 7 percent for
1978-82 for local costs. For foreign exchange costs related to technical



- 17 -
assistance, price increases are estimated at 8 percent for 1978, 7.5 percent
for 1979, and 7 percent for 1980-82. Price increases for all other foreign
exchange costs are estimated at 7 percent for 1978, 6.5 percent for 1979, and
6 percent for 1980-82.
E.   Project Administration
1.   Project Unit
65.       A Project Unit would be established within MNR to be responsible
for project implementation. This Unit will provide extension and credit
services in order to deliver an integrated service package to the small
farmers and agrarian reform settlements. The Project Unit would be headed by
a Project Director who would report directly to the Minister of Natural
Resources, and who would have extensive experience in administration and
agriculture, with emphasis on the small farm sector and irrigation development.
It is the Government's intention to have the Project Director also be the
Director of DARNO in order to ensure full coordination of the activities of
DARNO and the Project Unit. It has been agreed that the Project Director, who
has already been selected and is now beginning to organize the Unit and
select staff, would spend at least 80 percent of his time on the Project;
that separate sub-directors would be appointed to handle day to day activities
of the Project Unit and DARNO; and that any replacement for the Project
Director would be subject to Bank approval (section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The establishment of the Project Unit and the appointment of the
sub-directors would be conditions of loan effectiveness (section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
66.       The Project Director would be supported by a staff consisting of
one economist/statistician, 25 credit and extension agents, one irrigation
engineer, one agriculturaLl engineer, three irrigation extension agents, and
administrative and support staff. It has been agreed that salaries would
be set at levels necessary to attract qualified staff and that such staff
would be hired on a timely basis (sections 3.01 and 3.06(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to provide initial staff for the Project Unit, the
Government would transfer permanently four extension agents from MNR and three
credit agents from BANAFOM to the Project Unit as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project Unit would
also be supported by four internationally recruited specialists in agriculture,
credit, extension and irrigation. It has been agreed that these four special-
ists would be contracted by November 1, 1978, with qualifications and under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
67.       It has been agreed that MNR would provide sufficient autonomy to the
Project Unit for efficient administration (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to facilitate administrative procedures, the Project
Unit would be provided with a revolving fund amounting to US$50,000, which
could be drawn on by the Project Director when money was needed to prevent
serious delays in implementation of the project. Establishment of this fund
with regulations for its operation approved by the Bank would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
2.   Program Coordination
68.       BANAFOM would act as a fiscal agent for the credit component,
disbursing and collecting subloans under a subsidiary agreement with the
Borrower, and the MNR would enter into an agreement satisfactory to the
Bank with BANAFOM providing for its participation in the credit program
(sections 3.01(d) and 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The execution of
these agreements would be conditions of disbursement for the credit component
(Schedule 1, section 4 of draft Loan Agreement).  The Ministry of Public Works
(SECOPT) would be responsible for execution of the road component, and the
signing of a coordination agreement between the MNR and SECOPT would be a
condition of disbursement for this component (section 3.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). In regard to the road program, it has been agreed that the
Government would submit a proposal by December 1, 1978 identifying 35 kms of
roads to be financed under the project, that such roads would be maintained by
SECOPT, and that maintenance equipment financed under the project would only
be used for maintenance of project area roads (sections 3.03 and 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
69.       In addition, the Project Unit would, by December 1, 1978, enter into
cooperation agreements satisfactory to the Bank with the URH to provide tech-
nical support for the development of irrigation schemes, and with INA under
which INA would agree to use its best efforts to set up at least 15 new agrarian
reform settlements in Guayape each year which should be sufficient to insure
that the project targets for lending to agrarian reform settlements can be met.
INA will also support and assist the participation of agrarian reform settle-
ments in the project (section 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). It
has been agreed that the MNR would train machinery pool staff, stock necessary
spare parts, keep separate accounts and monitor costs and revenues, and maintain
machinery service tariffs at a level sufficient to cover capital and operational
costs (section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, it was agreed that
by January 1, 1979 the MNR would submit a research proposal for Catacamas for
Bank comment, and employ an agronomist and two agricultural engineers to help
carry out the research (section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
3.   Lending Policies and Procedures
70.       Subloan maturities for on-farm investment including machinery and
equipment, would not exceed 16 years, including grace periods of up to three
years. Subloan maturities for production credits would not exceed 12 months,
with no grace period. The interest rate of subloans would be 11 percent,
which is a real positive rate at the current level of inflation in Honduras,
and the interest rate normally charged by banks for agricultural lending.
Previous borrowers from BANAFOM who are in arrears may borrow under the project
provided they agree to repay existing debt in the Valley on a rescheduled
basis (in some cases write-offs may be justified), and it has been agreed that
BANAFOM, by March 1, 1979, would carry out a detailed arrears analysis and
make adequate provision for write-offs and rescheduling of such debt (section
4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Security for subloans would ordinarily be
in the form of chattel mortgages on the estimated crop value and on machinery
and equipment. Since most of agrarian reform settlements in the project area
would not have legal status or land title, an INA guarantee plus the joint



- 19 -
and several liability of each member of the group would be additionally
required. 1/ Beneficiaries would make financial contributions equivalent to
make financial contributions equivalent to five percent of the on-farm cash
investment costs. All the above matters have been agreed to (Schedule 6 of
the draft Loan Agreement.)
71.       The Government would assume the financial and exchange risks and
BANAFOM would receive a margin of 2% on outstanding subloan balances for its
participation. A Credit Committee composed of the Project Unit Director, as
Chairman; the local BANAFOM Chief; and the INA regional representative would
approve subloans (Schedule 6 of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       USAID has earmarked US$7.5 million of uncommitted funds of its
Agricultural Sector Loan Eor agrarian reform settlements throughout the
country and, to date, funds have been committed to eight settlements in
the project area. In order to minimize problems which might arise if two
somewhat different prograims were carried out at the same time in the Valley,
and because demand for these funds is high in other areas of the country, it
has been agreed that, during project execution, no further AID agricultural
credit funds, or funds under any other government financial assistance program
would be committed in the project area (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Procurement and Disbursement
73.       Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, road equipment, tractors
and farm machinery and equipment would total US$1.4 million, excluding contin-
gency. Individual contra,cts for such items in excess of US$100,000 equivalent
would be procured throughL international competitive bidding according to Bank
procedures. Purchases of less than US$100,000, and furniture and office equip-
ment which would total US$90,000, excluding contingencies, would be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures, which have been found to be
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of farm inputs would be carried out by
farmers through normal commercial channels to accommodate their timing require-
ments and because of the small size of individual purchases. Since road work
would be scattered throughout the area and include mainly the improvement of
existing roads, this worlc would be undertaken by SECOPT on force account.
Civil works for project fEacilities and irrigation systems would be carried out
through local competitive bidding procedures which have been found to be accept-
able to the Bank.
74.       Disbursements would be made over a four and a half year period to
cover.67 percent of subloans for on-farm investment and agricultural produc-
tion, civil works and project administration expenditures; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 85 percent of local expenditures representing the
estimated foreign exchange cost of vehicles and equipment; and 100 percent
of expenditures for consultant services and overseas training.
1/   INA generally holds title to the property until the settlement achieves
cooperative status and is granted title.



- 20 -
Project Benefits
75.       The proposed project will improve farm income for lower income
groups which fall within the Bank's rural poverty target group and increase
agricultural production in the Guayape Valley, and is thus in line with
Bank agriculture sector lending objectives in Honduras. The project, by
providing efficiently organized and directed assistance to agrarian reform
settlements, should help consolidate this program in the Guayape Valley and
lay the basis for extension of similar organizational techniques in other
areas of the country. It will also provide experience in the development of
small scale irrigation projects, while developing water resources more fully
in the valley, and bringing additional areas into diversified agricultural
production. The expenses of project administration and supporting invest-
ment (i.e., machinery pool services, rural roads and the research station
expansion) average about US$2,100 per project beneficiary; however, this
figure does not take into account the fact that the supporting investment
would also benefit other farmers in the valley. The credit component, which
is of course recoverable, averages about US$3,000 per beneficiary. At these
levels of investment it should be financially feasible to replicate this type
of project in other areas.
76.       The project would include both a high value export commodity (cotton)
and import substitution products (basic grains and soybeans). Through a
system of integrated production of such crops the project would transform
small subsistence farmers into commercial entrepreneurs. At full development,
it is expected that the average annual family net cash income would increase
from a pre-project US$579 equivalent to US$2,519 equivalent for small independ-
ent farmers, and from US$227 equivalent to US$1,962 equivalent for agrarian
reform participants with irrigation, or US$959 equivalent without irrigation.
The annual incremental value of production at full development would be about
US$8 million and the financial rates of return on incremental farm investment
range from 26 percent for irrigated agrarian reform settlements to 43 percent
for rainfed small farms. At full development, the project will contribute a
net of about US$24,000 equivalent annually to Government revenues. The project
will be directly responsible for the generation of 333,000 man-days of hired
labor, equivalent to 1,280 full-time jobs, and would substantially reduce
underemployment of beneficiaries in the project area.
77.       The economic rate of return of the project over 20 years is
estimated at 21 percent. All costs have been included except for price
contingencies and the Aguan Valley project preparation study, the latter
having no direct relation to production under the project. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that with a 10 percent increase in costs or a 10 percent
decrease in benefits the rate of return would drop to 15 and 14 percent,
respectively.
Project Risks
78.       Because the Government's past efforts and experience with other
projects dealing with small farmers have yielded limited results, the proposed
project has been designed on a modest scale to develop experience and capabil-
ity on which to base a more comprehensive future program in the Guayape



- 21 -
Valley. The main risks confronting the project would be possible lack
of acceptance of proposed technological packages; limited capacity of the
institutions involved in project execution; and shortfalls in attaining
production targets due to technical problems and adverse weather conditions.
To minimize these risks, the proposed technological packages are based on the
improvement of existing farming systems in the project area. Introduction of
high value crops (cotton, rice, sorghum and soybeans) to small farmers and
agrarian reform settlements will be carried out on a gradual basis. Farmers
would be assisted in effectively utilizing the proposed technological packages
and credit through a deliLvery system in which extension agents combine
expertise in both credit and production. To overcome institutional weakness
the project would be managed by a Project Unit with adequate authority and
with highly qualified personnel supported by technical assistance.
79.       There is also a risk in regard to the irrigation component.  Since
the country has very limited experience with irrigation development, the
proposed project would include a pilot irrigation scheme to introduce simple
irrigation techniques to small farmers, to determine viable irrigation farming
systems, and to build up local management and technical expertise. Neverthe-
less, there is some uncertainty as to the settlements' willingness to partici-
pate in an investment program for irrigation development, since no results are
currently available in the project area on the viability of irrigation systems.
In view of this, the irrigation component would have to be monitored closely
and modifications may have to be introduced during project implementation.
Environmental Impact
80.       The main focus of the project would be on productive activities
which would improve lancd and water management. Except for cotton production,
agricultural chemicals would have minimal effect on the environment, since
close supervision and instruction will help assure that the necessary pre-
cautions are taken in their use. Presently, large quantities of chemical
pesticides are used in commercial cotton production, and their increased
use can have detrimentaL effects on the environment and human health. The
cotton pest control stuidy to be undertaken would be the basis for a control
program for the project, and might provide the basis for similar programs in
other areas. Small farmers will begin growing cotton prior to completion of
the study since it will not be ready until the 1980 growing season; however it
is expected that even before the study is completed these farmers would use a
more limited number of sprayings, and the Project Unit and DARNO would monitor
the use of chemical pesticides to ensure that they are handled properly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft LoaLn Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement are creation of the Project Unit, appointment of sub-directors
for the Project Unit and DARNO, transfer of initial permanent staff to the
Project Unit from the 14NR and BANAFOM, and creation of a revolving fund.



- 22 -
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 28, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (,HOU KM2)                -------------------------------------------------
_______________                                 HONDURAS                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      112.1                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      28.7                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE           PARAGUAY       DOMINICAN RE  COSTA RICA***
 __  _   _ _ _  _  -_   --------                  __________ _-_-_-_-_
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    170.0*   250.0*   390.0*/a              360.0*    380.0*       580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            1.9       2.5        3.0/a              2.2         4.1        1.7
POPULAI.ON DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       17.0      22.0       27.0/a              6.0        83.0       34.0
PFR SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        69.0      89.0     104.07a              14.0       174.0       93.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         54.0      51.5       49.3               41.8        47.3       41.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          26.5      19 1       14.6               10.8        13.4        8.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..        ..      11B.0/b             93.8       103.0       62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      41.0       49.4       53.5               59.0        52.2       66.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       3.4        3.3                3.2         3.5        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOT?L                                 3.0       2.7**      2.7**              2.5/a       2-9/a      3.4
URBAN                                5.3/a        ..       5.1/c              2.d8        5.6        5 2/ a
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          23.0                 31.4               35.7        39.8       36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 10 14 YEARS                       47.8      48.1      48.1                46.4        47.5       47.4
IS TO 64 YEARS                      49.7      49.2       49.1                50.4       49.4        49.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.5       2.7       2.8                 3.2         3.1        3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0       1.0       1.0                 1.0         1.0         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6/b     1.5/a    1.8/d                1.6         1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ,.      20.7       83.4                           36.8       40.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          570.0     700.0/b  760.0/e              700.0      1100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        67.0        62.37W   60.37e              53.0        55.5
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           6.0       B.0         .1 -                         '4.0 /b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVL;E INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      28.0 /c      ..               30.0        26.3 /c
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      60.6 7       ..               62.0       54. 3 7
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        2.57w       ..                4 0        4 3-
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          4         ..                 ..        12.4 /C
___                           ~~~~~~~~/c
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
------------------------------                                       8~~~~~..  2.7
% OWNED BY TOP i0% OF OWNERS                                                                1.8
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPUL(TION PER PHYSICIAN                       i70od36.                       300       11.          630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       19120O/C  9120.0    1540.0/f             2310.0    11720.0      1690.0
POPULATION PER HOS;ITAL BED           620.07    570.0        ..620.0                    350.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         84.0      99.0      90.0               121.0       91.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             53 0       58.0       56.0               74.0       50.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21. -    25.0                            41.0       29.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            14.0      10.0        9.0                6.9       17.0         4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      67.0         ..      90.0               109.0      103.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     68.0      12.0      16.0                17.0       19.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0              12.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                            18.0                           6.0        5.0        10.0
(% OF SECONDARY)                    447 O                                    600        S.o
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                47.0         ..     53.0                79.0       50.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.8             ..             ..                   .           .
OCCUPIED LJELLINGS WITHOUT             8.0/e                60.0               88.0
PIPED WATER (%)                     8-/                   008.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                15.0         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                   2.0         ..         ..                 .
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        68.0       57.0       54.0              71.0        40.0        72.0
PSEGRCARS (PER THOU POP)          3.0        5.0        5.0               7.0        10.0       23.0
ELECTRICI   (KWH/YR PER CAP)           52.0     127.0      158.0              91.0       227.0       594.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.4       1.1        0.7                1.8        1.0         6.4
EE-NOTES-AD-DEFINi-------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Hoer Recent Eatilsaot between
1973 and 1975.
*  ON? par capita data are baed on the World Bank Atlag methodology (1974-76 besia).
1o  Intercen eel growth rata  (1961 and 1974 ofnsuea) ; largely due to migration  of El galvadorsan   rasident, in Hionduree the population growth
ret. wo  lower than the rate of naturalicrae
000 Coeta Rica baa bean selected as an objective coantey for ffonduras beosaw. both countries are amall, open econoceite, dependent on agrioultural
asport.eand both h-av special trade relationshipa with other Central American countriee. Yet Coet. Rica has achieved a much higher etandard
of living and a mmare  ve  distribeti.n  nf the benefits of development then Honduras.
HOJNDURAS         1960     /   13 important urbancnes               /b  Ratio of popu.la-o  -rdor 15 nod 65 and over to  .totl labor f.-i;                ;c1063;
/d  1961-65:      /e  Piped water inoide.
1970     I   Ratio of population coder 1) and 65 uod ove  to lebir force 10 yearn and over;                 /b  Labor forc  12 years aod0cr
/c  1967-66 per capita incoe;    _Id  Regiut-rd, not all P-oticig in rho country.
MOST1 RECENT ESTIBIATE:      /a  1976;      /b  IBNS  ilouioc outicalo;        Ic  1970-74;      /d  Ratio of populatioo oudor 15 acd 6) and over
to labor age 15 Fearo  -ud c-;          Lc  Labor force age 10 years and over;           /f  P'cronnnl in govaemmt
sovcnonly.
PAR.AGUAY         1970   /a  9,,e to sesigration population growth rate is loser than the rate of natural iunorease.
DCINuCANi iEp.  1970   /sDue to migration  population growth rate is lovr than the rate of naturl increase ;    /b  Senre Domingo only;
It Sento Domingo urban only.
COSTA RICA        1970   /   1963-74.
RB, Januay 9, 1978
DRDBNITIOII OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Ama- (thou I-')                                                                           P.poelticpe nr eureing psreon - PoPulation divided by n-ber of practicing
Total   Total surfers-. are  omprising lead arsa and island waters,ml.edBl  graduars nurses,  . 'rained' or  cerntifid" nurses, and
gAric. -Meet recent Ie .timate of arntrlarea  ned imsp-raily or peom-                            aunillry persoa  wI th training or soperimc..
nen tly for  -rpe, pastures,  arkot A& kitchen gardens or to ILe fallow.                    Pplnuttion oar hospital bed - Population divided by n-mb- of hospital beds
available io poblicn cd pni-ts gane-I sand epecieised hospits1 end
GN4P ser canita (US$) - iMP per ..pita estimates at curret marht prices,                         rehabilitation.. cetar; emoIdes muriog bomee and  stbifenefor
nel1-1acod by see  tovr     -n.rthed aa Woold Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      custodial and prevaoivay car.
loge; 1970 end 1975 dana.                                                                   Per ..sica suedey of calories it of r-oniremsste) - Cemented fron energy
eqoivaleat of tet fond sopplies available in country per capita per day;
Puoclation and oita1 statistic,                                                                  avilable supplies omaprias dcsmtio pr-dutoin, Imports I.oanports., sod
Poro1ation  (mid-year million)   uc of Snipy first:  ir non avilable, average                    chaagsa In stock; set sopplise an-lds animal Coed, seeds, quantities usd
of tw   n-pory-     laa  1-hf, 1970 and 1975 data.                                             Infod pronessing  and loases is distribution; raquirasta war  esnisted
by FAO base.d on physiological seeds for morsel activity and health -onid-
Population demairy - oar snure len - Mid-you  population per squar  kiIntar                      sinag em-iroete1 teaperaturs, body onight, aga cand sea distributions of
(100 hactrern) of tota  area.                                                                 popoltion, sand e11sieg 10% gor wast.eat bhaaehad level.
Popclation demaity - per soer  Ion of earic. land - Compted as show  for                       Par ..pita sanely of protein  fgrarm  oar day) - Protain contest of per napita
egiutrlelnd only.                                                                      net supply of fend Per day: -test  pply of fond ie deBined as shov; require-
meat for eli onmetrisa established by tImSnA econoic Rs.sar-h Services
Vitol satainnics                                                                                 provide for s aiaieenalss          of 60 gr-n  of total protein per day, end
Crude birth re- oar thonuad, -v-ree  - Annua1 Ive birth. per thvuacd ef                          20 grams~ of animoal aad pulse protein, of which IS grna should be anima
mId-pes  popola.tton; te-y-ar-ithoti  averages ending in 1960 aad 1970,                        protein; thaa    tad-rds are lowear then tines of 75 grna of total protein
acd fi-s-sr averge ending in 1975 for moe treost estimate,                                     and 23 gr-n  of enimal prstin aso en eyer-ge for the world, proposed by F00
Crude death rate ear thoanad, aer.ac - Annua deetha per thw.cad of mid-y-a                       in the Third World fond Survy.
pcpue-ion; ten-year a-ithtic  averages ending ia 1960 and 1970 end five-                     Par .esins protein saply fron esma1 and ouLsa - Protein supply of food
pear                                                                                          D t  rt.rag, en dn  Ia 19715 fo~r me0recent estimate,  derived frme  naial  sad puleas in grea per day.
Infnt   ortliy rce  /cim)- IAna   atho o  infants under ona year of age               Dahrtf/thou  sass 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand to age Broup 1-i
per th-uaad live births.                                                                      years, to children in thie  age aromp; suggesnad aanindicat-cof0
Life ompnctancy at birth (nr-) - overage  -,shr of years of life rainiing at                     malntrition.
birth; usully five-year  -vergsa ending In 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
ing coutries                                                                                Education
ironor-p-d-ction rate- toerage nubar of live daughnerne              wn ill bear               Adlted enrollmnt ratie - erinary emman1 - En-Ilmant of all a. ceas  pe-
In her -nomI reproductive period if sh.e.periencee present age-apenific                        centage of primary emenl-age population; include  childre  aged 6-11 pears
fertilIty ct_a; usualy fiv-yea  everage  ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                         boo adjusted for different Iengtha of primary oducaion; foe   -tnriec with
for deeleping coutries,                                                                        universal education, enrollment may amed lOT eios s    poptie are bolon
Puoiocrowth r-ea (%) - total - Conpood anua  growth rates of mid-yea                      or shove the effinia1 schaol age.
popolacmon for 1915-0   1960-i  ad 1970-75.                                                  Adlastsd   -1roiisnt retie - secondary school - monpunad as above; secondary
Populetion irlmeth rte6 (jZ1!- arias  -Coputed libe growth rats of total                         adunetien rquires en least four perar  of approved primary ist-trcion;
population; dISferent dafinition  of u-ia  a-   may effect ceparahility of                     proides geasre1, voca.tional or teeni er trainig inacruti-m  for pupils
dat  amn  cetriea.                                                                             of 12 to 17 yeera of age; torreponden   corss -r  g-nerily secluded.
cra   orIston ft of cocci; - Ratio of chba  cc total population; differee-              Yvsar  of ahbooi-  r-ided ftnt sand second level) - Total ysare If
definitions of urbcaress may affect renprability of date aeng coutri.s.                        shba..g  ascadry level, vocational tnstr-cion may he partially or
-,50 -troccre (percent) - Children (0-14 yeorn), working-age (15-64 yearn),                  PocationisailntC  of secondary) - Voativna  i-otitucion-  inclde
and reired  (6)ysre   aver).ase peroontges of mid-peer.population,                             tehnical, industrial or other pregrn   shich nper-r  indapendentlo  ra
Ace dependoc-y ratic   cuiofpopltIo  unde  15sand 6) ad ove  tc those                            dep-rtssett  of secondary inatituetio.
of ages 1) throu gh  4                                                                       Adult Iitereor rate  Mt  - Literate ado1cs (able to red and write  as per-
ic-neic deee..denco re ti  - fatie of population under 1) end 6) and ovr to                      c-ntege of total edoIt population aged 15 pears and over.
tho labor frc in age group of I156-6 peara.
fnily  pla.nnimo-occnrs(cmuatve  thou) - Coinlitive  unber of acce ptors                       Noosing
of blrcb-contrrl devices and- or aupico of nationi family planning progrs                    Peron  par rome (urban) - Averge saber of peruons per roo  in avopied
since iccePtIo.                                                                                cooemionaI dwellings is urban areas; d-elinfs antlde non-peemnsat
F-ly plv aning-ues    of married woa)-Pretgsof married conan of                                  atutre   n   secpe  pats.
child-hearng age (15-44 peers) who uc  btrth-rotrol devices to all earned                    Otupiad dwellng  wi=bonaimd water  TI - Ocpied c--ve   ...nI dwellings
eocII  ae  g  group.                                                                        Im ache  and  rura  areas without inside or otside piped water facilities
as peroentage of all onompied dwellings.
Eopleoset                                                                                      gossto electricity ft of all dwellings) -Conention-I dweliinc  with
Total labor forc  (thousand) - Eoonomi-aly active peron, including aend                          electricity in living quarters as parnent of total dwailinge 1t urban and
force  ad uneplsdio  -nloding h-sei-e, students, ar..; definitions                             rua   rea..
invri      ' cuties. en  net comparable.                                                 Rural dweing  connected to electricity  f)-Cenpoted as shave for rura
Labor force is agricultur.-         Agric-It-raI tb rfor  (in faning, forestry,                 dwsliisgsonly.
butn ,n ihing) aspretaeo   onll r forte.
Dn-pleyed ft of labo,r forts  - Uineployd -ae       Isull  definad aspcae  h.tstio
are ails and willngt         kcb  aJob,ot of a Job on a  Iv_  day  rasised ou                  aior    pivr    ar thou pee) - ull typee of reeivers tor radio broadcas ts
of    )o,,ad  :,fIIg work fore. sp-ifiad minimu  period metmadigoec gea..r-1 public per thousmd of population; secludes colice....d retainers
was; Imynt -h oparable beteenoo-nr~ie  due no different definitions                            In countries and in years vhsa registration of radio sate was tn affect;
of umpleysd and source of data, e.g., sployeat office stetitice, saspis                        data fan  armcent pears   p net he coparabie since most coutries  bho1iehed
suvys, conpoleory u-mployment mcat,licensIg.&
Paseeer car  (oar thou eon) - Pasasuger cars comprise motoncrs sea.ting
lucon  dis,tributio  - Perantegs of private inca  (herb in cash and kind)                        isste  agnpnsb;ecldsohlncane, hearses. end military
recivedbyrichest 5%, rioheat 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest h0t of house-                       ais.
holds.                                                                                       iElctrici:y  fkh/yr par sepl - Annul nenateptien of industrial, n.ril
pbic adpriva te emetriniry in kilcteci  hours per -apita, generall1y
Diatribotimo  of land ownersrhia - Percentages of land nestd by wealthiest 10%.                  bh..ed on prmduotion data, without sileners for losses in grids bat alii--
and pacre c 15. of land owesn1g for  mparts sad emports of e1ctritity.
Nswssrit=tCia/yr par .sP) - Per cc pita... anua consuption in kilograms,
Batand IRotitinetiae  fron domestic p-ed-tion plus onet imports of newprint
Phulnin   are ietta  - Population divided bp ... er of praticing
phyalcisne qualified fr-  a aedic-I school an -ni-srity level.



ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC DEVUOPMNNT DATA                                                   Page 3 of 4
(Amounts in milions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                Projected                       Average Annual Growth Rates                            As Percent of GODY
1970       1976         198           1985             1970-76      1976-61        1981-65       1970        1976        1961       1965
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                 At 1967-69 Prices and Ex-hang, Rates
Gross Domestic Product        678.1       834.8       1,106.7        1,345.2             3.5          5.8              5.o      100.9       101.9        102.5       103.4
Gains from Terms of rade All  -6.0        -15. 7        -.                                .            .                .        -0.9        -1.9         -2.5
Gross Domestic Inscums         MT1        8rO          79J           13.0               'E            77          1,30 hi383                100.0
Impot (icl. NFS)              222.5       249.7         342.5         405.0              1.9          6.5             4.3        33.1        30.5         31.7        31.2
Expo   (" joport caPacity)  -178.9       -217.5        -300.5         136h.&             3.3          6.7              4.9       26.6        26.6         27.6        28.0
Consinption Expenditures      569.1       688.3         883.0       1,033.4              3.2          5.1             4.0        84.7        84.o         81.8        79.5
In-tsaent ExpendLtwres
(tnclucing stocks)          146.5       163.0         238.7         307.0              1.8          8.0             6.5        21.8        19.9         22.1       23.6
Domestic Savings              103.0       130.8         196.7          266.6             4.1          8.5              7.9       15.3        16.0          18.2       20.4
National Savings               88.4       116.2         163.0          210.0             4.7           7.0             6.5       13.2         14.2         15.1       16.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                 Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports (cif)
Capital Goods                55.3       138.8         269.0         443.3             16.5         14.1             13.3       24.8        29.8          29,0       31.1
Petroleum, Oil & Lubricants  14.7        48.2         117.7         195.4             21.9         19.5             13.5        6.6        10.4         12.7        13.7
Other Intermediates          84.5       175.7         353.1         530.0             13.0         15.0             10.7        38.0        37.7         38.0       37.1
Conm-ption Goods             68.2       102.9         188.6         258.5              6.7         12.9              8.2       30.6        22.1          20.3       18.1
Total Merchandise ICports
(cif)                 222.7       465.6         928.4       1,427.2             13.1         14.8            15.3       100.0       100.0        100.]      100.0
Exports
Primary Products           128.3        272.8         535.5         815.0             13.4         14.4             11.1       72.0        67.6         67.9        64.6
Petroleum Derivatives        6.2          1.1           3.3           4.3            -25.0         24.6              6.8        3.5         0.3          0.4         0.3
All Other Goods             43.6        129.6         249.5         441.5             19.9         14.0             15.3       24.5        32.1          31.7       35.1
Total Merchandise Exports
(fob)                178.1        403.5         788.3       1,260.8             14.6         t4.3            12.5       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices              Average 1967-69 - 100
Export Price Index         105.9        202.8         278.3         360.9              i1.4          6.5             6.7
Import Price ICdex         109.8        203.1         286.4         371.2             10.8          7.1              6.7
Teens of Trade Index        96.4         99.9          97.2          97.2              o.6         -0.6               -
Exports Volume Index         99.5      1U7.7          167.6         206.6              2.8          7.3              5.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annul Data at 1967-69 Prices and                         Avernge Annual Growth Rates                    As Percent of Total
E}xchangpe Rates
Agriculture                242.6        253.7         308.6         364.5               0.7         4.o              4.2        35.8        30.4         27.9      27.1
Industry and Mining        147.8        214.5         303.2         375.4              6.4          7.2              5.5       21.8        25.7         27.4       27.9
Services                   287.5        366.5         494.6         605.3              4.1          6.2              5.2       42.4        43.9         44.7       45.0
Total                      3R7                      1             1,3145       2       9           719              37"       101.0       100.         100.0      100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                              As Percent of GDP
(Central Sver,saeot )
Current Revenues          88.8        125.2         181.5         228.6              5.9          7.7              5.9       13.2        15.0          16.4      17.0
Current Expenditur-s      74.6        121.0         154.9         201.8              8.4          5.1              6.8       11.1        15.5          14.0      15.0
gs' 3          '        '4.2 "2c.       c               26.8                     -Tg97             4          0.2    ' i                 WW
Other Public Savisg       7.5        17.8          22.2          25.6             15.5          4.5              3.6        1.1          2.2          2.0       1,9
Public Sector Capital
Ir.vemstnt              45.4         63.4         108.5         125.1              5.7         11.3             3.6         6.7         7.6          9.8       9.3
.ENTRAL GOVERNMENT                    (As % of Total Espoaditure,  )ETAIL 2N PURlIC SECTOR                                                   Ac Peront of Total
d.03REN1 EXPENDITU8E DETAILS        Actual                 a                          INVESTMENT_PJ1OGRAM (FIXED)                      1969-73   1975-76   197782
1970         1974            7                          S-oial Sectors                                    20.6      32.0  16    2
Education                     2            31           "73                           Agriculture                                        3.8        4.9       6.4
Other Social Services         15.6         16.0          14.4                         Forestry                                             -        2.1       9.5
AgricuLture                     5.2         4.4          12.4                         Power                                              22.7      22.0      36.2
Other Economic Services        9.9         11.8           9.3                         Transport and Ooclcattons                         52.9       36.7      29.3
Otheinltrution and Defense    30.9         24.5          25.2                         Other                                                -        0.3       2.4
Other                         13.3         12.0          14.4                         Total Expenditures                               ¶873       1.0    ¶3770
Total Current EpeSnditures    17          1M5           ¶8
SELECTED INDICATORS         1965-73       1973-76      1976-81      1981-85           FINANCINO OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Average  I6OR                 4.18           5.82         3.91       4.36             Public Sector Savings                              39.9      34.4      44.o
Import Elasticity             1.12          1.22          1.15       1.15             Capital Revenues                                   4.3       1.8        1.9
Average National Savings Rate  0.14          0.15         0.15       0.16             External Fisancing (net)                           50.4      60.o      49.1
MarginaL National Savings Rate 0.17         0.15          0.18       0.21              Internal Rorrowing (net)                          15.4       3.6       5.0
Total Financi g                               100.0    100.0    100.0
Total labor Porce                                  Value Added Per Worker
IABOR FORCE AND OUTPCT PER     In Miflions     S of Total                              (1976 Prices and Exchange Rates)
WORKEP                         "USD1976lrs                                                                e 1976  1n  PrcDntoll-ge
Agriculture                     0.485            60.3                                      '0A'7
Industry                        0.119            14.8                                      2529                186.5
Services                        0.199            24.9                                      2352                173.5
fot-al                     0.oO3           I252                                                          173.5
not applicable
-   nil or negligible.



ANNEX 1
HONDURAS                                                 age  1
BALaNCE OF PuAIENTO. EXTRNAIL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In millions of US dollars at ctrrent prices)
ctual            Eestimated 1/           Projected                                                             ACtual
1970    T   1975          1977            Ty9c      I                                                       1970       1975       1976
SlDlNART  IILANCE OF PANENTS                                                                                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Export (including  0F3)               196.5         443.1         617.5          864.7          1,390.8         Public Debt Outetanding and disb.   90.1       264.1      334.9
Imports (includinr NFSj               2Z4.3         509.0         615.0          985.5         1,521.4           (end of year)
ResourCe Balance (M'7                               1         i        7        -6 _             IN rInterest on Public Debt                          2.5       10.2       15.1
Repayment on Public Debt              3.1        6.5        13.5
Interest (met)                        - 2.5         -15.1         -18.7         -42.5            _89.0         Total Public Debt Service              5.6       16.6       28.5
Direct iCveotnent IDcome               -20.0        -41.1          41.3          -55.5           -6o.o
Workern' Remlttances                     -            _                    -               -                    Burdec on emporto(%)
Current Tra;sfer' (Jte1                                                           P 13.2  52&  flaQ  3O.9
BaLance on CurrentAEE8umt              -63.8       -108.9         -42.5        -198.8            2.            Public Debt ServiceD                   2.9        4.8        6.1
___________________t              -                                                                      DbtSrvice I Direct Inventaeot
Income                             13.1        9.7       15.7
'ricats Direct Incote.ctc                8.8          7.6          15.0           35.0            60.0         Average Terms of Public Debt:
Public 11 M   LT Loans                                                                                            Intereot as S Frior Year DO&D       3.9        5.9        5.7
Disbursneents                        28.7          84.2         1D0.5         170.7            249.5           Amcrt.as S Prior Tear DE&D           4.8        3.7        5.0
-Rem ss                                               _          -01.5 *a                                     IbRD Debt   standing & Disbursed   30.0          56.7       67.4
Jther MALT Loans                                                                                                IBRD an f of Public DOD              33.2       21.4       20.1
Cet Disbursements                     2.4          11.7          12.3           31.0            50.0         IBRD an 8 of Public Debt Service    38.5         35.1       23.5
Private Lng-term  Capital (cet)        4.3          18 5          19.0            -
Capital Tran-acti-on  n.c.i.           15.4          23.2          1.-                              -          IDA Debt Outsanding & Disborned    15.2          28.7       30.4
Change in Reservec (-iocrease)           7.7        -23.0         -32.8            0.6            -12.2        IDA an S of Public DOE                16.9       10.9        9.1
IDDA an   of Public lkbt Service      1.1        2.0        1.2
LJAN COP5ITMDNTS
Official Orants and Grant -like       5.3           7.3
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                                     Eheated Debt Outstanding  us cf Dec/31/77
IPRD                                5.5          35.0                                                           ELrEANAL DEIT          Disbursed 0nly            Percent
IDA                                 8.1         11.0                                                       IBRD                                621 .0
Other Muitileteral                  9.1          33.1                                                      IDA                              32.3                    7.7
-0ver,oeots                           -          29.7                                                      Other Multilateral              117.1                   28.0
lopplierB s                                      11.2                                                      Oovernments                     131.1                   31.5
Financial Institution.               -           17.0                                                      Suppliers                        15.1                    3.6
Total Public M&LT Loans            "7           !                                                          Finapcial Institutiops           35.8                    8.3
Total MALT Public Debt           =                    100.0
Total MALT Public Debt
(including undisbursed)      766.0                  183.2
1/ Prelinicary



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of March 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                           US$ million amount
No.       Year         Borrower             Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed   52.1    24.0
767        1971   Emp. Nacional            Ports             9.0       -          1.3
Portuaria
841        1972   E;ip. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  12.3        -          1.0
896        1973   Honduras                 Roads            18.8       -          1.7
434         1973   Honduras                Second Live-       -       6.6         2.4
stock Dev.
452         1974   Honduras                Education          -       3.0         0.5
954        1974   Honduras                 Education         3.0       -         2.3
1081         1975   Emp. Nacional de       Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  35.0        -          8.8
628        1976   Honduras                 Agricultural
Credit           -     14.0        13.6
1341/2       1976   Honduras                Highways         35.0       -        32.1
1395/6      1977   Honduras/Emp.
Nac:ional Portuaria  Ports             12.0      -         12.0
696        1977   Honduras                Ports               -      5.0         5.0
770 1/     1978   Honduras                Education           -      5.0         5.0
Total                                          177.2    57.6         85.8
of which has been repaid                      23.7     0.7
Total now outstanding                          153.5    56.9
Amount sold                        4.5
of which lhas been repaid        2.5           2.0      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                                   151.5    56.9
Total undisbursed                               59.3    26.5        85.8
1/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor            Type of Business   Loan           Equity      Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A (ECCASA)            Tannery          0.30           0.08        0.38
1969/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)                 Pulp and Paper  -              0.07        0.07
1977/78    Textiles Rio Lindo,        Textiles        9.00            1.00      10.00
S.A. de C.V.
Total gross commitments                    9.30           1.15       10.45
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                                6.30           0.15       6.45
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                   3.00           1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                          3.00           1.00        4.00
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 767       Second Port Project:  US$6.0 million Loan of June 25, 1971,
and US$3.0 million Supplemental Loan of July 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 22, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30. 1978.
The project consists of the expansion of Puerto Cortes on the
North Coast of Honduras, and the construction of the new port
of San Lorenzo, in the South. The Puerto Cortes expansion was
completed in March 1975, but the San Lorenzo port was delayed
about 18 months as a result of Government reconsideration of
its location. The Bank provided additional financing of
US$3.0 million, which was necessary to cover the increased
cost of the San Lorenzo port resulting from the high level
of inflation during the period of the delay. Construction of
this port is now proceeding satisfactorily and should be
completed shortly.
Ln. 841      Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of EffEectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30. 1978.
About 90 percent of the project has been completed with the
installation of the La Ceiba diesels, the interconnection to
Nicaragua and other project works and studies. Full completion
will be delayed by about 3 years beyond the original estimate,
the main delay resulting from the slow preparation of an ex-
panded load dispatch and communication system for control of
energy transfers with Nicaragua and from the addition of a
geothermal resource study. Project costs have increased
by 14.3 percent (about US$2.3 million) and will be financed by
a loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation
of the Borrower. The current closing date of June 30, 1978
will have to be extended to allow completion of the project.
Ln. 896       Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May, 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31. 1978.
The construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, the main
project component, has been completed. The Comayagua-La
Libertad Road, 80 Km of feeder roads, and technical and
economic studies for 430 Km of feeder roads have also been
finished. Preparation engineering studies of rural roads to
be selected on the basis of the recently completed highway
master plan financed by the Bank will delay completion of
project works until late 1978 or about one and one-half years
behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 434      Second Livestock Project:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Commitments under this project slowed during 1975 because of
uncertainty resulting from the implementation of the Agrarian
Reform Law. The project is now proceeding satisfactorily,
however, and total commitments are equivalent to 83 percent of
IDA funds allocated to the lending program, with the balance
expected to be committed shortly for two major sub-loans
(Isletas agrarian reform banana plantation and the Tegucigalpa
abattoir). Because of delays in signing these two sub-loans
on the part of beneficiaries, only 61 percent of IDA funds were
disbursed as of December 1977, but the credit is expected
to be fully disbursed by the original closing date.
Ln. 954      First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
April_8, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. The agricultural training centers are completed and
courses for small farmers and their wives will begin in early
1978. The construction of the extension to the agricultural
school at Catacamas and of INFOP's vocational training centers
at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa will be completed by mid-1978.
All teacher training facilities are in operation, except one
teacher training school and three related primary application
schools which should be completed by the closing date or soon
thereafter. Funds for technical assistance and fellowships
have not been completely used, due to delays in selecting and
approving candidates, but efforts are being made to accelerate
commitment of these funds. All project works are expected to be
substantially completed by the original closing date of June 30,
1978. A slight extension of this date may be needed, mainly to
complete disbursements for technical assistance and fellowships.
Ln. 1081       Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27. 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project is nearing completion. While the Rio Lindo Power
Plant extension is expected to be completed 2 to 3 months ahead
of schedule, civil works on the major river diversion works
were delayed compared with the appraisal estimate. All but the
Yure diversion works have now been finished. The project is
expected to be completed below appraisal cost estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 Million Credit
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing DaLte: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as wiell as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily.  US$250,000 of IDA funds have been committed and
substantially disbursed. Commitments of about US$3.5 million
have been made for the provision of technical services under
agreements with MNR, the National Agrarian Institute and
the Pan American Agricultural School at Zamorano.
Ln. 1341/    Seventh Highway Project:  US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342      US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The three major
construction contracts have been awarded and work begun,
and contracts have been awarded for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment. Preparation of the Highway Master Plan
is complete.
Ln. 1395/    Third Port Project:  US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396     million on Third Window Terms) and US$5.0 Credit, both of
Cr. 696      April 22, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan finances the construction of Puerto Castilla on the
North Coast and the expansion of San Lorenzo in the south.
The civil works contract was recently awarded for Puerto
Castilla and the borrower is negotiating an extension of the
contract fEor construction of San Lorenzo to cover the expansion
program.
Cr. 777      Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million credit of April 6.
1978; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: July 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The borrower is now in the process of satisfying the condi-
tions for effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         Six months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        FAO/CP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        January 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:       October 1977
(e)  Planned completion of negotiations:  April 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None proposed.
Section III: Special Conditions
It has been agreed that:
(a) MNR would provide sufficient autonomy to the Project Unit for
efficient day-to-day administrative decision-making; the
Project Director would spend at least 80 percent of his time on
the project; any replacement for the Project Director would be
subject to Bank approval; the Project Unit would be provided
with the necessary staff whose remuneration would be adequate
to attract qualified personnel; and by November 1, 1978 the
Project Unit would contract consultants in agriculture, credit,
extension and irrigation under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (paras. 65, 66 and 67);
(b) by December 1, 1978 the Project Unit would enter into coopera-
tion agreements satisfactory to the Bank with URH for the
irrigation program and with INA for the participation of
farmer groups, and the URH would complete the La Puzunca
irrigation scheme by April 1, 1979 (paras. 69 and 52);
(c) the MNR would train machinery pool staff, stock necessary
spare parts, keep separate accounts and monitor cost and
revenues and maintain machinery service tariffs at a level
sufficient to cover capital and operation costs, and by
January 1, 1979 it would submit a research proposal for the
Catacamas Station for Bank comment and employ an agronomist
and agricultural engineers for Catacamas (para. 69);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) the Project Unit would provide subloans to project beneficiaries
according to the lending procedures and the terms and conditions
approved by the Bank; and financial assistance to small farmers
and agrarian reform settlements in the project area would not be
committed under any financial assistance program of the borrower
other than the project (paras. 70 and 710;
(e) by March 1, 1979, BANAFOM would carry out a detailed arrears
analysis by category of sub-borrowers in the project area and make
adequate provision for write-off and rescheduling of existing
debts as well as intensification of credit supervision and collec-
tion in the project area (para. 70);
(f) the Government would keep the Bank informed on the progress of
the proposed reorganization of BANAFOM and give the Bank suffi-
cient opportunity to comment on final proposals for such reorgani-
zation (para. 44);
(g)  by December 1, 1978, the Government would submit a proposal
identifying about 35 km of roads that would be included in the
project to the Blank for comments; project area roads would
be maintained by SECOPT's General Directorate for Highway
Maintenance; and maintenance equipment financed under the
project would be utilized only for maintenance of project
area roads (para. 68);
(h) the Government would grant cotton growing permits to small farmers
with less than LO ha in the project area provided they have adequate
programs of insect control, and would undertake a cotton pest
control study under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and
present it and a control program for use in the project area to the
Bank for comment by March 1, 1980 (para. 59);
(i) conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) the project
unit be established; (ii) sub-directors for DARNO and the Project
Unit be appointed; (iii) three credit agents and four extension
agents be transferred to the Project Unit from BANAFOM and the MNR
respectively; and (iv) a US$50,000 equivalent revolving fund be
created with regulations satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 65, 66
and 67); and
(j) conditions of dLisbursement under the credit program and the road
component would be that operational agreements, satisfactory to
the Bank, had been signed by the MNR and the participating
agencies responsible for these components; and that the Govern-
ment and BANAFOM had signed a subsidiary agreement (para. 68);
a condition of disbursement for the studies to be undertaken in
preparing the Aguan regional plan would be execution of a project
agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the UNDP and the
Government: consultants and terms of reference would be satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 61).






te w;X\D    I  f , -    -X
\                i-  ff ,9  Xa    / -                                      l~~~~~~~~  z 
; 1 |   t   1" I  X   i'   r   '     A ~~~~~~~~~~
.,5i'  -  ,   so z  '  s r i-)   'X'15 -            <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S          s<             t         l'ii   0               X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~½ j< 



