Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYf                     t      X
Report No. 1953-HO
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 5, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = L 2.00 (Lempiras)
L 1.00 = US$0.50
L 1,000,000 = US$500,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
and
1 manzana  =  0.7 hectares (ha)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANACH        -  National Association of Honduran Campesinos
BANAFOM      -  National Development Bank
BCH          -  Central Bank of Honduras
CABEI        -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAR          -  Regional Agricultural Committee
CIDA         -  Canadian International Development Agency
COCO         -  Committee for Agricultural Development
COHDEFOR     -  National Forestry Corporation
CONADI       -  National Investment Corporation
DARNO        -  Agricultural Directorate for the North East Region
DGI          -  Department of Irrigation
FACACH       -  Federation of Savings and Loan Associations
FUNHDESA     -  Honduran Development Foundation
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
INA          -  National Agrarian Institute
MNR          -  Ministry of Natural Resources
PROMF,CA     -  Agricultural Mechanization Program
SECOPT       -  Ministry of Public Works and Communications
UNC          -  National Union of Campesinos
URH          -  Department of Hydrological Resources
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter No.                        Title                                    Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ..................... o. .......   .......                1
A.   General   .......................... . .............. .        1
B.   Agricultural Credit .8...... .. ......                        8
C.   The Small Farm Subsector  ........................           11
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ........     ...........  . .... . .              13
A.   Location  .................                   .....13
B.  Land Tenure and Use .                                         14
C.   Institutional Support ............................ .          16
D.   Infrastructure... .......                                     17
III.  THE PROJECT ..............o.........18
A.   Introduction ....................18
B.   Brief Description ....... ................                   18
C.   Detailed Features ................................            19
D.   Project Costs ..... ...........................              20
E. Financing  .......22
Fe   Procurement   ..... ... ...... * ........ *.* ...... *.  .   23
G.   Disbursement..                         ...   .. ...          23
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................               25
A.   Organization and Management...                               25
B.   Participating Institutions   ......27
C.   Lending Policies and Procedures                              29
D.   Accounts and Audit           ............     .              31
E.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation.                           31
V.   SPECIFICATIONS OF FARM MODELS                                     31
VI.   PROJECT PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING.                          34
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS...                          ....                35
A.  On-farm Operation ... *..       ..............                35
B.   Fiscal Impact ....... .     ................. .              37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Honduras during October 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. N.P. Sharma, C.
Barham, C. Plaza, J. Martinod, R. Paraud (Bank) and A. Santiesteban (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
VIII.  ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS   ............    .........................  .  37
A.  Benefits and Justification ....    ...................    37
B.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis .        38
C.  Project  Risk  ...............  ......................    41
D.  Environmental Impact .....     ........................  42
IX.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION   ......     42
SCHEDULE A - Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions        45
Table 1   - Phasing of the Lending Program    ..........     51
ANNEXES
1.  National Development Bank .............................       52
T.1 Consolidated Balances of the Banking System as of
December 31, 1975    .    .............................  68
1.2 Loan Portfolio of the Banking System, by Type of
Institution and Sector, end Year Position, 1971-75     69
T.3 Operating Results of Branches in 1976                     70
T.4 Movement of Capital, 1972-76 .71
T.5  Particulars of Borrowings as of December 31, 1976        72
T.6 Investments in Enterprises as of December 31, 1976        73
T.7 Classification of Outstanding Loans
According to Purpose, 1974-76   ..................     74
T.8 Classification of Approved Loans According to
Size,   1974-76  ..................................    75
T.9 Classification of Loans Issued According to
Purpose,  1971-75  ...............................     76
T.10 Position of Overdue, Extended and Refinanced Loans,
1974-76  ........................................     77
T.11 Classification of Overdue Loans According to
Loan Purpose, 1974-76     ..........................   78
T.12 Overdue, Extended and Refinanced Loans of Reform and
Non-Reform Sectors at end-March 1976 and 1977          79
T.13  Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements, 1972-76        80
T.14 Consolidated Balance Sheets, 1972-76 .81
T.15 Financial Ratios, 1974-76 .82
T.16 Minimum Liquidity Requirements, 1974-76                  83
Chart 1 - BANAFOM Organizational Chart
2.  Consultants' Terms of Reference .......................       85
3.  Farm Development Models ...............................       89



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
T.1    Proposed Yearly Cropping Pattern                            92
T.2    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Investment Costs .......... O.***.* ......... *o        93
T.3    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year) ..           94
T.4    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Operating Costa ......................                  95
T.5    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Cropping Pattern, Yields, Total Production,
Production Value, Operating Costs                       96
T.6    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Cash Flow and Family Income Projections                 97
T.7    Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
- Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis       98
T.8    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Investment Costa ...s... .....    ... ...               90
T.9    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year) .           100
T.10    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Operating Costs                                        101
T.11    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Cropping Pattern, Yields, Total Production,
Production Value, Operating Costs                      102
T.12    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Cash Flow and Family Income Projections                103
T.13    Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
- Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis    104
T.14    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Investment Costs ...............                       105
T.15    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year) .           106
T.16    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Operating Costs            .107
T.17    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Cropping Pattern, Yields, Total Production,
Production Value, Operating Costs ........ *.          108
T.18    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Cash Flow and Family Income Projections                109
T.19    Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
- Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis    110
4.  Detailed Project Cost ......             .. *...... .               111
5.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File                112
Map IBRD No. 13243 - Guayape Regional Development Project






HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. General
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture is the most important sector ín the economy.  It con-
tributes about one-third of GDP, provides employment for approximately two-
thirds of the economically active population, and generates close to 80%
of export earnings. The growth of the sector since 1969 has been erratic.
Between 1970 and 1973, it grew at an annual rate of about 2%, due to adverse
weather conditions and the effect of withdrawal from the Central American
Common Market in 1971. In 1974 it declined by almost 9% in relation to the
previous year, and in 1975 it dropped further by about 6%, primarily as a
result of the 1974 hurricane and a drought in 1975. In 1976, however, because
of favorable weather conditions as well as expansion of the area under cultiva-
tion, output increased by 4%.
1.02      The trade balance in agriculture remains favorable, having fluc-
tuated between US$163 and US$273 million annually during the 1973-76 period.
While major agricultural exports, which consist mainly of bananas, coffee,
lumber, sugar, beef and cotton, declined at an average annual rate of 17%
in real terms during the 1974/75 period for the reasons cited above, they
increased by 19% in 1976. In 1976 bananas contributed over 26% to total
exports, coffee 25% and lumber 9%. Food imports have increased at an average
annual rate of 58%, with fats and oils, milk and other dairy products, and
wheat and wheat products, accounting for about 50% of total food bill.
1.03      In 1973 crops accounted for sone 65% of value added in agriculture,
livestock and poultry, 23%; forestry, 11%; and fisheries, the remainder. Out
of the total agricultural production value, bananas contributed 30%; coffee,
15%; corn, 10%; beef, 8%; and milk, 9%. In 1974/75, however, banana output
dropped 13% as a result of hurricane damage to about 60% of the plantations,
and there was a concurrent drop in the output of coffee and basic grains (corn
and rice). During the same year, substantial production increases occurred in
tobacco (30%), sugarcane (18%) and beans (13%), but these were not sufficient
to offset the decreases in the five main products.
1.04      Since 1950, the production of bananas and coffee has grown consider-
ably faster than that of corn, beans and sorghum, the staple food of the
rural population. Until the late 196Os, Honduras had a surplus of corn
and beans which it sold within the Central American Common Market. Crop
yields, however, are generally low. Improved seed is not widely used,
fertilization is minimal, and pests and diseases take a heavy toll. The
The major exception is bananas. In the Sula and Aguan Valleys in the
northern region, about 20,000 ha are under banana cultivation. Some 65% of
the crop is produced by two foreign companies, which also carry out their own



research. Corn, the small farmer's basic subsistence crop, is grown in most
parts of the country and far exceeds other crops in area.  It is often
interplanted or rotated with beans. Coffee is grown by many small farmers and
is a major source of cash income. In spite of traditional production practices
and low yields, output has grown steadily because of an expansion of area
cultivated.
1.05      Cattle production is the most important livestock activity, but
productivity is much lower than in neighboring countries. Growth of the
cattle subsector has been slow (1.9% per annum for 1972-74), mainly because
of the droughts, uncertainties associated with the agrarian reform, and
low meat prices on the North American market.
Rural Population, Income and Employment
1.06      The population of the country was estimated at almost 3 million in
1976, increasing at a rate of 2.7% per annum for the 1970-76 period. About
70% of the population is rural and about 48% is under 15 years of age. The
total labor force is about 760,000, of which 60% is estimated to be involved
in agriculture.
1.07      Avérage GNP per capita for the country was about US$390 in 1976,
one of the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. A 1967-68 survey of income and
expenditures indicated that the poorest 40% of the population is almost
entirely rural and earned an average per capita income that amounted to only
about one-fifth the national average. In 1976, about 70% of the rural popula-
tion (or 50% of the total population) received less than US$111 per annum
and therefore fell within the Bank's rural poverty target group.  Many are
landless or work small plots of very poor quality.
1.08      There are few amenities in rural areas, and education, health, and
nutrition are particularly deficient. The national average daily caloric
intake is approximately 1,850, about 90% of the minimum daily requirement,
and low-income groups (about 50% of total population) subsist on an average
daily intake of only 1,465 calories. Anemia, malaria and intestinal infec-
tions are common, rural public water systems are rare, and excreta disposal
systems are either unavailable or generally unsanitary.
1.09      Under-employment in the rural sector is high and employment in
agriculture is highly seasonal, with labor shortages and upward wage pressure
during the harvest periods in some regions where basic food crops, cotton
and coffee are grown. Wage legislation stipulates that the minimum agri-
cultural wage is L 2.5 (US$1.25) per day, but wages actually paid fluctuate
from L 1.5 to L 3.0 (US$0.75 to US$1.50), increasing at harvest time to
L 4 to 5 (US$2.00 to US$2.50). The banana companies pay from L 5 to L 6
(US$2.50 to US$3.00) daily throughout the year to maintain a constant labor
force. Within the Guayape Valley, the average agricultural wage is L 3
(US$1.50) per day.



-3-
Land and Water Resources and Uses
1.10      Land Resources.  Honduras has a total area of about 112,000 km 2
Central and western Honduras have a rugged mountainous terrain, with ridges
and peaks ranging in altitude from 2,435 m in the north to about 3,000 m
in the west. The lower, flatter areas where slopes are under 20%, include
the Sula Valley and the Aguan Valley on the north coast, the Nacaome-Choluteca
plain on the south coast (Pacific), the Guayape Valley in the central part of
the country, the Mosquita region in the east (principally the Departments of
Gracias a Dios and eastern Olancho), and many small river valleys.
1.11      The predominance of steep, rugged terrain limits the agricultural
potential, but there are substantial possibílities for expanding output of
both crops and livestock. About 26% of the total land area is suitable for
agriculture although about two-thirds is limited to extensive use because
of soil condítions or steep slopes. A low proportion of land is currently
being utilized. Only 28% of the land suited to annual crops and about 18%
of suitable land for perennial crops are presently cultivated. Actual
land use in relation to potential is as follows:
Actual Use
Relatíve
Use Category          Potential Use          Actual Use    to Potential
km7 %               km        %           %
1.  Annual crops         10,221      9.1       2,829    16.1        27.7
Il.  Perennial crops       8,670      7.8       1,575     9.0        18.2
TII.  Forest               62,664    56.1        3,806    21.7         6.1
IV.  Very extensive       30,173    27.0        9,350    53.2        31.0
Total               111,728   100.0       17,560   100.0        15.7
Source:  Based on classification used by C.V. Plath, Mapa de Uso Potencial
de la Tierra, FAO, 1964; and Uso Potencial de la Tierra de Honduras,
Evaluacion Basada en los Recursos Fisicos, FAO (UNDP Report AT 2234),
1967.
Bananas, the country's major export crop which accounts for about 40% of
the total value of all food crops, are grown on about 4% of the cultivated
cropland. Corn is cultivated over the largest area of cropland (over 30%),
and bean, sorghum, sugarcane, plantains, and rice occupy most of the remain-
ing land under crop production.
1.12      Water Resources.  Irrigation is considered as an important element
in increasing agricultural production because of the long dry periods in most
of the country and the rapidly increasing population. However, irrigation



- 4 -
development in Honduras is still in early stages, with most irrigated land
presently under private ownership. Government irrigation works are few (serving
about 10,000 ha) and are poorly managed and underutilized.
1.13      While detailed water resource surveys have not been carried out, it
is clear that there is considerable scope for expansion of diversified cropping
based on irrigation with surface and/or groundwater sources, especially in
selected valleys throughout the country. Of the 755,400 ha suitable for
cultivation under irrigated conditions, only about 28,600 ha, or 4%, are
presently in irrigation comrnmand schemes, representing 3.8% of the total
cultivable area. Further, of the 10,000 ha of the commanded area included in
Government schemes, only about 4,000 ha, or 40%, are actually irrigated.
Private systems include the large schemes of the banana plantations in the
Sula and Aguan Valleys, the sugarcane enterprises in the Sula and Choluteca
areas, and many small installations diverting water by gravity or pumping from
streams or wells. The National Agrarian Institute (INA) has developed several
schemes in Choluteca, and the local governments operate a number of small
systems which have been taken over from communities or cooperatives to assure
their continued operation. In recent years, some large farmers have been
developing groundwater for irrigation in the Sula Valley and in Choluteca,
but, as in the case of small farmers, most irrigation is presently carried out
by temporary diversion of rivers into short, unlined canals.
1.14      Development of irrigation has been hampered by a lack of meteoro-
logical and water resource information, the absence of an adequate legal
framework for water resource development, a shortage of expert manpower
within Government, and insufficient coordination between the several govern-
ment agencies concerned with irrigation, namely, the Department of Irrigation
(DGI), INA and the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (SECOPT). As a
result, in ongoing Government projects, systems design, maintenance and cost
recovery have been poor and there is a sparse data base from which to develop
future schemes.
1.15      These problems are now being addressed as Government acknowledges
the role which irrigation can play in increasing agricultural production and
improving farm incomes. A comprehensive water law is under preparation and
the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) has reorganized and strengthened the
DGI and renamed it the Department of Hydrological Resources (URH). Its main
objectives are to (a) collect and publish hydrological and climatological
data; (b) promote water resource studies; (c) study, plan and design irriga-
tion projects and supervise their construction, operation and maintenance;
and (d) administer the proposed water law.
1.16      URH has set up four main departments:  Irrigation, Hydrology and
Meteorology, Water Administration, and Administration. Special coordinating
units have been set up for the Quimistan and Sula Valley projects, rehabilita-
tion of the Juan Flores district, and the groundwater study for development of
the Choluteca Valley.  Under a USAID Program, URH is now receiving technical
assistance for staff training. While these are steps in the right direction
and URH has the strong support of MNR, URH still lacks sufficient experienced
staff and firm direction to carry out its functions adequately.



- 5 -
1.17      The Government is undertaking several studies with external assistance
to expand irrigation development. Prograns underway are as follows:
(a) feasibility and design studies for irrigation and agrícultural
development in the Quimistan Valley and flood control in the Sula
Valley. These studies are financed by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) and will include an analysis of irrigation in Honduras
and provide recommendations for a technical and administrative
scheme to establish the basis and priorities for further irrigation
development;
(b) rehabilitation and improvement of the San Juan de Flores
irrigation district, financed by the Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI);
(c) study for drainage, groundwater and agricultural development
in the Choluteca Valley, financed by IDA Credit 628-HO; and
(d) study to improve and strengthen the coordination, adminis-
tration, and technical capacity for water resources conserva-
tion and development, financed by USAID.
1.18      In addition, negotiations are underway with the IDB to finance
feasibility and design studies for irrigation in the Florida - La Entrada
Valley and with the Government of Japan to finance a study for surface irri-
gation and agricultural development in the Choluteca Valley as well as personnel
training. Discussions are also underway with the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) to prepare a master plan for the development of the
Guayape Valley, and subsequently, feasibility studies of irrigation schemes
for 12,000 ha would be undertaken. The proposed project for Guayape would
therefore develop the institutional capacity to implement irrigation schemes
in the area, teach farmers irrigation practices, train local staff in irriga-
tion techniques, and provide information on farmer response in the region for
future application.
Institutional Participation
1.19      MNR, INA, the National Development Bank (BANAFOM) are the principal
institutions providing Government assistance to agriculture. The MNR is
responsible for establishment of overall sectoral priorities and formulation
of specific projects, as well as for extension and machinery services and
research. In addition, it is responsible for irrigation projects, as noted
above. The MNR has recently been reorganized and decentralized to improve
service. The extension service has been expanded and improved in recent years
with support from the Bank, IDB and USAID but still requires further expansion,
training and better organization to enable it to respond effectively to the
needs of the small farmers and agrarian reform settlements.
1.20      INA is responsible for the implementation of the Agrarian Reform
Program. It identifies expropriable land, takes steps necessary to acquire
it, organize campesino groups, and train and provide guidance to them in



- 6 -
operating their settlement until they achieve full cooperative status and gain
title to the land. Although it has distributed a substantial amount of land,
it tends to move slowly and is now being reorganized to improve administrative
procedures; its professional staff is also being upgraded.
1.21      BANAFOM is the major source of agricultural credit, providing over
80% of lending to agriculture from banking institutions and almost all lending
to small farmers and agrarian reform settlements. BANAFOM has also been
responsible for Government industrial lending, marketing and price stabiliza-
tion programs. BANAFOM is a weak institution with serious financial problems,
particularly in regard to rising overdues because of poor administration and
poor support for the small farmer/agrarian reform lending program (Annex 1).
1.22      Authority and responsibility in providing public service to agri-
culture are fragmented and duplication of effort sometimes occurs among
agencies. At both the pre-project stage and project implementation stage,
coordination is weak. The Government has recently taken steps to deal with
this problem by creating a coordinating committee within the Presidency,
chaired by the Secretary of the Planning Council. The committee will have a
technical secretariat to assist it in preparing the agriculture sector budget,
coordinating annual work plans and supervising their execution.
Government Strategy and External Assistance
1.23      The National Development Plan for 1974-78 has two broad objectives
for agriculture: (a) improvement of agricultural incomes for lower income
groups; and (b) acceleration of agricultural production and export growth.
On the production side, the Government's plans call for bringing additional
land into diversified production and shifting land already in use to higher
value crops. In addition, the Government plans to increase productivity
and production of basic grains, vegetables, oils, and livestock to exploit
more fully the scope for import substitution. The Agrarian Reform Program
will be the Government's principal mechanism for minimizing poverty, increasing
production, and improving income distribution in rural areas. The Government
has placed high priority on the program in terms of resources allocation and
has sought substantial external assistance to accelerate the program.
1.24      Government's increased emphasis on agriculture is reflected in a
changing composition of the public investment program. Agriculture's share
of the total public fixed investment increased from 4% in 1975 to about 5%
in 1976 and is expected to average about 6% between 1977-82. During 1977-82
agricultural fixed investments would be spread between the Aguan Valley
project as well as other large works such as irrigation of the Quimistan
Valley, the integrated development of the Sula Valley, Florida-La Entrada and
the Guayape Valley. Financial support for commercial agriculture will be
through BANAFOM. Government's main involvement in the forestry subsector has
been in the development of the Olancho forest industries project, with IDB
assistance. Also, a CIDA-financed project for a forest management and conserva-
tion program is now being implemented, and the National Forestry Corporation
(COHDEFOR), a newly created agency responsible for development of forestry
resources, is preparing a number of small-scale wood industry projects for
future implementation. The Government has also intensified its irrigation



program to focus on high value products and to increase production. URH
within MNR is to carry out water resource studies and prepare irrigation
projects. With external assistance, the Government is now undertaking studies
for irrigation development in the Quimistan, Choluteca, Aguan and Guayape
Valleys, western region of Santa Rosa, and the San Juan de Flores irrigation
district (paras 1.17 and 1.18). USAID will also continue to support Govern-
ment's program for reconstruction of areas in the North Coast affected by the
1974 hurricane, and further financial assistance by USAID will be provided to
promote and improve small farmer technologies and food and nutrition. Finally,
the proposed project would help finance a regional development study for the
Aguan Valley. The Government has been carrying out a large-scale agricultural
investment program in the Aguan, and a comprehensive regional development
study with emphasis on flood control and irrigation is urgently needed. The
UNDP has prepared a plan for undertaking such a study which is estimated to
cost US$2.0 million and which will take about three years to complete. Since
UNDP does not have sufficient funds, the Government has requested Bank assist-
ance in financing this study. This study will be executed by the UNDP and is
expected to identify and prepare future projects for possible Bank financing.
1.25      To date, IDA has provided three credits to Honduras, totaling
US$23.2 million, for agricultural development. Two of these credits (197-HO
of March 1970 and 434-HO of October 1973) were for commercial livestock
development with the objective of diversifying and strengthening the balance
of payments by increasing beef exports. The first loan was evaluated in the
Operations Evaluation Audit, dated February 28, 1978, and it was concluded that,
while the project did help increase livestock production and beef exports, it
did so in part through more extensive production rather than primarily through
improved production techniques, as originally contemplated. Although the
second project has not yet been completed, it was noted that, since it was
basically a continuation of the first project there may have been a conflict
with the agrarian reform (which was beginning about the time the second
project was appraised) to the extent that one of the principal targets of the
reform was extensive livestock production on land better suited for cropping.
While the evidence is still not available to determine whether this occurred,
the fact is that the Bank's lending objectives for agriculture in Honduras
have changed since approval of the second project. The US$14 million First
Agricultural Credit (628-HO) approved in May 1976 has as one of its principal
objectives the strengthening of the agrarian reform and it provides credit
to agrarian reform settlements and commercial farmers for crop and mixed
crop/livestock development as well as technical assistance and equipment
to strengthen INA, and the extension service. It also provides a training
program for local technicians. The Bank has recently approved subloans of
about US$1.5 million for agrarian reform settlements under this credit.
Marketing and Prices
1.26      Marketing arrangements for traditional export crops are more organ-
ized than those for crops sold domestically. Large farmers engaged in the
traditional export subsector generally enter into contractual arrangements
with processors and exporters, with prices reflecting world market conditions.
Cotton is marketed by the Cotton Growers Cooperative, which periodically



-8-
establishes minimum guarantee prices for cotton. However, domestic food pro-
ducts, which originate largely from the small farm subsector, are handled mainly
by local marketing intermediaries, and are subject to sharp price fluctuation.
1.27      Marketing constraints are severe in domestic agriculture, with many
small producers having access only to limited and localized markets. Addi-
tionally, the lack of adequate factor market and distribution systems has
restricted farmers' access to modern inputs (seeds, fertilizer, and other agro-
chemicals, and machinery services). Further problems occur because of the
absence of timely marketing and price information, which has impaired small
farmers' ability to make sound decisions. Storage facilities at the farm level
are inadequate, and lack of transportation infrastructure in rural areas
adversely affects marketing of surplus produce.
1.28      The Government has recently increased its intervention in marketing
by establishing a price stabilization program for basic grains (corn, beans,
rice and sorghum) and by controlling consumer prices for selected commodities.
The Government regulates trade in basic grains and takes into account internal
and external factors when setting BANAFOM support prices. To date, the price
stabilization program, which is handled by BANAFOM, has had little impact
because of technical problems in handling grains, insufficient operating
capital and poor management. Since BANAFOM currently handles less than 15%
of total grain production, the program has not been effective in avoiding
excessive price fluctuations. The current storage capacity is about 40,000
tons and present plans include the addition of 4,300 tons in the Guayape
Valley in 1978. While the increased capacity should facilitate grain marketing
in the main producing regions, impact on the system as a whole will depend on
management effectiveness. To this end, the Government is planning to set up a
new marketing agency (para 1.37).
1.29      Suministradora de Productos (BANASUPRO, created in July, 1974)
administers retail price controls of a number of food products and supplies
inputs to farmers.
B. Agricultural Credit
1.30      The Central Bank of Honduras (BCH) determines the country's credit
policy and regulates the credit flow to various economic sectors, mainly
through discounting bills, granting special credit lines, setting interest
rates for deposits and advances, stipulating minimum liquidity requirements,
and implementing selective credit control measures. The present discounting
rate for credit for production activities is 5%. A 7% rate is charged on
marketing credit for traditional agricultural products (cotton, tobacco,
timber, and meat) and 6% for coffee. BCH's total assistance to the banking
system in 1976 amounted to L 120 million, of which about L 52 million (43%)
was provided to BANAFOM for financing the agricultural sector, including
livestock.



- 9 -
1.31      The banking system and, to a limited extent, cooperatives and
certain private agencies provide credit to the agricultural sector, with
agricultural loans accounting for nearly one-third of the total loan portfolio
of the banks, mainly BANAFOM (over 80%) and the rest by the commercial banks
and loan associations. Generally, commercial banks provide loans to large
and medium farmers whereas BANAFOM covers the entire farming community.
After the agrarian reform laws were passed in 1972, financing of the reform
sector became the special responsibility of BANAFOM.
1.32      Inadequate information is available about the extent of benefits
extended to small farmers by institutional credit sources, but it is believed
that about 80% have no access to them. The small farmers borrow money from
moneylenders, shopkeepers, and middlemen at an annual rate close to 40%,
counting nominal interest, the high prices for inputs charged by the lenders,
and the lower prices the lenders pay for outputs.
1.33      BANAFOM, established in 1950, is the largest development bank in
the country and is wholly state-owned. In accordance with its charter, the
bank provides production and development assistance to both agriculture and
industry, but its major involvement so far has been in the agricultural
sector. Agriculture's share in outstanding loans is the largest, increasing
from 81% in 1974 to 86% in 1976. In addition, it extends commercial loans,
receives public and private deposits, and performs certain non-banking func-
tions, the latter include operating the Government's grain marketing and
storage program, supplying farm inputs and other agricultural requisites,
assisting in establishment of agroindustries and participating in their
management, and running technical assistance and promotion programs for
development of agriculture and industry (Annex 1).
1.34      Currently, BANAFOM's financial position, characterized by steady
financial losses, rising overdues and poor solvency, is unsatisfactory.
Operations during each of the last fíve years have resulted in losses
that increased from L 2.6 million in 1972 to L 23.4 million in 1976. While
the gross income rose from L 7 million to L 13 million during this period,
expenditures rose from L 9 million to L 27 million, a large part due to
the increased provisions made for bad and doubtful debts and assets, parti-
cularly in the last two years. On average, such provisions accounted for
about 25% of annual expenditures, indicating the unsatisfactory quality of
the bank's operations. The staff salaries and other benefits absorbed 40%
to 50% of the gross income during the last five years and the share of the
operational expenses rose steadily from 12% in 1972 to 23% in 1976.
1.35      The major portion of the annual loss in each year was due to the
activities of the Development Department, which includes the marketing and
retailing functions. For example, out of the total loss of L 23.4 million
in 1976, L 12.7 million (54%) was due to the Development Department, with
the marketing and storage activities and BANASUPRO (para 1.29) accounting
for 62% (L 7.9 million) and 9% (L 1.1 million), respectively. The Credit
and Operations Department, however, is also incurring increasing losses.
1.36      The bank's overdue loan position is also unsatisfactory.  The
number of overdue loans increased from about 9,900 to 24,700 during the



- 10 -
1974-76 period and overdue amounts rose from L 25.9 million to L 44.1 mil-
lion. In terms of percentage of overdue loans to total outstanding loans
at the end of year, the rise has been from about 25 to 33. In late 1976, the
bank established a special committee to review difficult loan cases and make
recommendations for required action (write-offs, rescheduling or legal action).
While this step is in the right direction, the present arrangements are still
not adequate. However, the Government is now, with the assistance of external
agencies, seeking further solutions.
1.37      In view of BANAFOM's weaknesses, the Government has given high
priority to reorganizing and strengthening BANAFOM as a viable agricultural
development institution, and USAID and IDB are now actively involved in bringing
about improvements. Further, the Government has approved (a) a draft decree
that would set up a new Marketing Institution (Instituto de Comercializacion y
Mercado de Granos) for the grain stabilization program; and (b) restructuring
BANAFOM as an Agricultural Development Bank. Also, the equity investments in
industrial enterprises which BANAFOM currently holds would be transferred to
the National Investment Corporation (CONADI). It is expected that the decree
will become effective in early 1978. BANAFOM's reorganization, however, will
require much time since details of the reorganization plan have yet to be
defined and approved.
1.38      Overall, the small farm credit programs financed by the Government
and external agencies have not been very successful. BANAFOM initiated a
supervised credit program for small farmers in 1952 but could not make much
headway. The program was revived in 1968 and it gained momentum in 1970 when
USAID provided a loan of US$4.5 million, specifically for small farmers (with
landholdings ranging from 2 to 15 manzanas, or 1.4 to 10.5 ha) who produced
mainly basic grains and/or maintained livestock. BANAFOM was further drawn
toward small farm financing in 1972 when a new agrarian reform law (Decree
No. 8) led to the creation of a fairly large number of agrarian reform settle-
ments organized by INA (paras 1.45 and 1.46). The Government took the respon-
sibility for arranging credit and technical assistance for the settlements as
their member campesinos were mostly landless and had little or no resources
of their own. The state provided L 4 million (US$2 million) and required
BANAFOM to contribute a similar amount to an "Agrarian Fund" for financing the
reform beneficiaries. Assistance was also received from other agencies such
as IDB and USAID for extending loans to this sector. In 1973, BANAFOM opened
a "cooperative window" for lending directly to cooperatives and farmer groups
belonging to both reform and non-reform sectors or through their federations
(the Honduran Development Foundation - FUNHDESA, the Federation of Savings and
Loan Associations - FACACH, and the National Association of Honduran Campesinos -
ANACH) for farm development and production of basic grains and commercial crops.
However, activities in this regard have been few.
1.39      Until now BANAFOM has achieved only mediocre results with small-farm
credit programs, primarily because it has been deficient in credit promotion,
technical assistance and supervision with respect to the small farmers.
Consequently, the Government's agrarian reform program has been adversely
affected. In order to reach the small-farm subsector, it is essential that an
intensive and coordinated program of credit and technical assistance be estab-
lished. Therefore, the proposed project would, while BANAFOM is undergoing



- 11 -
reorganization, develop, test, and refine an effective credit delivery system
for the small farmers and asentamientos in the valley. The established credit
delivery system would then serve as a prototype to be adopted by BANAFOM and
replicated in other areas. It would also serve as an important vehicle by
which BANAFOM would implement its small farmer credit program after its
proposed reorganization. Under the project, BANAFOM would act primarily as
disbursement and collection agency, participate in the credit committee which
would approve subloans, and have its staff participate in the training courses
to be offered by the credit specialist.
1.40      Currently, BANAFOM has about US$14 million remaining from two USAID
loans to finance small farmer groups, the funds being made available to the
groups without adequate technical support or supervision. About US$7.5 mil-
lion out of the US$14 million has already been earmarked for the agrarian
reform settlements under the Government's Agrarian Reform Program, and the
remaining amount has been allocated for use in areas originally affected
by hurricane "Fifi." Also, USAID is now finalizing a small farmer technology
loan (US$6 million) which would provide credit to asentamientos and indepen-
dent small farmers. Overall, however, the USAID program has lagged.
1.41      The demand for credit is high.  There are at present over 900
asentamientos in the country and almost 35% have received no financial support.
Further, the Government plans to increase the number of asentamientos sub-
stantially over the next three-year period. Likewise, less than 20% of the
estimated number of small farmers receive institutional credit.
C. The Small Farm Subsector
1.42      Land in Honduras is unequally distributed.  Latest data on farm
size, distribution and land use are based on the 1965 agricultural census.
While there has been some change since that time as a result of agrarian
reform activity, these figures are still indicative of the unequal distribu-
tion of land. The data shows that 178,000 farms occupied 2.4 million ha of
land. Nearly 70%, or 120,000, of these farms were less than 7 ha in size
(average 2.5 ha), and they accounted for less than 15% of the total farmed
land. Out of the 2.4 million ha, about 46% was privately held, 37% was
public land and the remainder, under rental arrangement and other forms.
About one-third of rural families are landless.
1.43      The unequal distribution of land explains, to a great extent, the
underutilization of productive lands. Many of the larger farms are located
on productive soils in regions well served by roads, but they are used for
grazing or otherwise extensive operations. Small farmers, on the other
hand, tend to be located in hilly inaccessible areas where soils are unsuited
for intensive crop production, and, consequently, they usually grow annual
subsistence crops. The small farm subsector is thus plagued by low produc-
tivity, a traditional technological base, underemployed resources, and a
disproportionately small share of agricultural growth and development.



- 12 -
Moreover, it suffers from deficiencies in agricultural research and exten-
sion services, from an inadequate marketing and support infrastructure, and
from the lack of timely and steady supply of inputs. Concentration of land
and income in the hands of a small segment of the farm population has also led
to polarization of economic power.
1.44      The skewed distribution of landholdings and the extreme poverty of
the rural population have given rise to numerous land disputes, land invasions
and increasing agrarian unrest during the last few years. Three fairly well
organized peasant organizations have emerged--which in late 1975 joined forces
to form a Frente de Unidad Campesina--claiming a total membership of over
100,000. Current rural development policy has responded by emphasizing land
redistribution. The aim of the Government is to establish clear land titles
and to ensure an efficient use of land. Landless farmers and farmers with too
little land or unsuitable land are eventually to be settled on Government
lands or on underutilized private lands.
1.45      The Government which took power in December 1972 gave the higher
priority to the problems of rural poverty and land reform. It moved imme-
diately to adopt a temporary land reform measure (Decree 8) which provided
for obligatory Government leasing of un- and underutilized land to be
distributed to groups of landless peasants. Under this measure more than
23,000 families were settled on about 75,000 ha during the 1973/74 period.
Decree 8 was replaced in January 1975 by a comprehensive agrarian reform
law (Decree 170). Under this law, allowable maximum farm sizes range from
100 ha in irrigation districts to 2,000 ha in the least developed areas
of the country. Areas larger than the indicated maxima are subject to
expropriation if: (a) within six months of the date of the law, the land
is not operated directly by the owner; (b) within three years (by January
1978), the farm is not exploited to the efficiency standards specified by
the law; and (c) the land is in excessively fragmented units. Lands leased
under Decree 8 were automatically expropriated. Land in bananas, sugarcane,
African oil palm, coffee, pineapple, citrus and tobacco are not subject to
expropriation as long as efficient production is maintained.
1.46      Implementing regulations were issued and land expropriation and
redistribution was started under Decree 170 at the end of 1975. During
1975/76 about 21,500 families received over 65,000 ha of land. Overall, in
the 1973-76 period, about 22% of the eligible families received land under the
agrarian reform. In 1977 the Government had planned to settle about 10,000
families on about 60,000 ha, and plans call for the settlement of 12,000
families per year in the future. Farmers are not settled individually, but in
groups (asentamientos), and they work on a joint basis. The larger farm size
makes it possible to take advantage of economies of scale in providing credit
and other inputs. While adverse weather conditions during 1974/75 made it
impossible to fully evaluate the performance of the new settlements, the
results to date have been mixed. Some settlements have disintegrated because
of poor organization, inadequate government assistance programs or because
they were set up on poor or insufficient land. Others have achieved good
production rates. Overall, about 50% of the land included in the agrarian



- 13 -
reform is farmed compared with a 22% national average. There is a good poten-
tial for increased productivity as demonstrated by the fact that when price
supports for basic grains were raised for the 1975/76 season, agrarian reform
settlements responded with substantially increased production.
1.47      In Honduras, agrarian reform is a necessary, though not sufficient,
step to bring about economic and social advancement in rural areas. There
is ample evidence in the country that productivity and the living standards
of campesinos in the small farm subsector can be improved considerably,
provided that the Government undertakes certain essential measures, including:
(a) preparing and executing investment programs and establishing a proper
institutional framework to execute such programs for the development of the
small farm subsector; (b) channeling adequate credit and technical assistance
to small farmers in support of such programs; (c) organizing small land-
holders and landless campesinos into asentamientos and cooperatives or
other functional groups; and (d) conducting applied research to develop high
yield and disease-resistant crop varieties, improve farming practices and
develop low cost production systems for the small farm subsector.
1.48      Small farmers, both individual landholders and members of asenta-
mientos, have become an important target group for Government assistance.
Development of the small farm subsector would reduce rural poverty and would
significantly increase basic grain production, which is important to the
H-onduran economy. The Government has thus intensified its efforts to over-
come the growing imbalance in patterns of production and income distribution.
However, successful implementation of a program to develop the small farm
subsector is contingent upon the continued availability of substantial external
credit and technical assistance.
1.49      The Government recognizes the difficulties in effecting orderly devel-
opment in the small farm subsector. To date, various programs undertaken to
provide credit and technical support to small farmers and asentamientos have
shown only moderate results, but this may well be because the actions of the
agricultural agencies involved in the program were not adequately coordinated,
technical and managerial support was inadequate, the credit delivery system
was weak, and the development efforts were too thinly spread over wide areas.
The Government is aware of these deficiencies and realizes the need for
concentrated action, with coordinated efforts in specific areas. The proposed
Guayape Regional Development Project, with its emphasis on strong project
administration and improved cropping patterns and farming systems and develop-
ment of an effective delivery system for credit and technical assistance,
would provide the framework for dealing more effectively with small farmers.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The Guayape Valley (project area) in the Department of Olancho
has good soils and large unutilized water resources and substantial poten-
tial for crop diversification and increased production. It is included in
the Government's plans as a priority area for development.



- 14 -
2.02      The project area (Map IBRD 13243) is located in the central part of
the Department of Olancho, in east central Honduras. The valley is about 70 km
long and has an average width of 13 km. The total area is about 93,000 ha,
almost all of which is suitable for cropping (50%) and the remaining for
grazing. The valley has a total population of about 47,000, almost 60% of
which lives in rural areas. Juticalpa is the main urban center and seat of
Government in the valley. The second most important town, Catacamas, is about
41 km to the east of Juticalpa.
2.03      The climate is tropical with an average annual temperature of 24 C
and average annual rainfall of 1,400 mm, with extremes ranging from 990 mm
to 1,700 mm. The rainy season lasts from May to November and accounts for
almost 90% of the total annual rainfall.
2.04      Fertility of the alluvial soils covering the valley floor varies
from medium to high. Texture ranges from medium to moderately heavy, and
drainage is good even in the heavier soils. In terms of land capability,
close to 50% of the area (or about 46,000 ha) is suited for sustained agri-
culture without major limitations, while the remainder (about 47,000 ha) is
mainly suited to pastures. Most of the flat areas are covered with deep, well
drained soils. suitable for irrigation; the rest present limitations to irriga-
tion, mainly because of unfavorable topography.
2.05      The valley is crossed from west to east by the Guayape River and
its tributaries: the Rio Jalan, the Rio Juticalpa, the Rio Telica and the
Rio Talgua. The annual average of total inflow into the valley from these
rivers reaches 70 m /sec but the average minimum flow in April-May (21 m /sec)
would not allow full irrigation in more than 5,000 ha all year around; how-
ever, supplementary irrigation could be applied to some 13,000 ha during
two cropping seasons (May-September and October-February). Presently, water
is used for irrigation only on an experimental scale such as at the private
El Sembrador farm and the Government's Agricultural School at Talgua.
B. Land Tenure and Use
2.06      As shown below, farm-size distribution in the valley indicates the
importance of the small farm subsector (less than 20 ha), which accounts
for 80% of the total number of farms but only 16% of the total area. About
40% of the farms have less than 3 ha. Almost all the small farmers grow
food crops while the larger farms are engaged in livestock activity. A
significant proportion of good cropland is in pasture and underutilized in
the larger farms.



- 15 -
Farm Distribution /1
No. of            % of            Area /2           % of
Holdings     Total Holdings       ('000 ha)       Total Area
Less than 3 ha            2,062              40.0              3.0              2.3
3-20 ha              1,892             37.0             17.0             13.2
More than 20 ha /3        1,190              23.0            109.0             84.5
Total          5,144             100.0            129.0            100.0
/1   Based on 1974 census data for four municipalities (Juticalpa, Catacamas,
San F. Becerra and Santa Maria Real), extending partly beyond the Guayape
Valley.
/2   FAO/CP mission estimate.
/3   Number of farms 100 to 500 ha = 273, and number of farms more than
500 ha = 50.
2.07      There are about 60 agrarian reform settlements with an area of about
4,500 ha. On average, there are about 20 to 25 families per agrarian reform
settlement and about 3 to 4 ha per family. Over the next three years, the
Government is planning to add about 25 agrarian reform settlements annually
(para 4.09).
2.08      Agricultural development is at a low level of development in the
project area. The small farm subsector is characterized by low productivity
and a high level of underemployment. Small farmers generally work their land
by hand or with animals, use primitive farming techniques, rely on local
unimproved seeds and make minimum use of agro-chemicals. Consequently, yields
remain low and the cropping intensity is only slightly better than one crop
per year and does not generally exceed 120%. Cotton is grown in the larger
farms. Small individual farms and asentamientos tend to concentrate on the
most common food grains -- corn and beans. By and large, due to seasonal
variations in rainfall, only corn, beans or sorghum are grown as second crops.
Rotations are simple, alternating the basic food crops (corn, beans, rice,
sorghum) and sometimes including cotton in the larger farms. In terms of
importance, corn occupies 68% of the total area under annual crops. In recent
years, however, rice growing has expanded and sorghum is becoming more popular
as a second crop replacing corn and, to a certain extent, beans. Soybeans
have been introduced recently and are promising, both in terms of their
initial results and in relation to the unsatisfied demand for edible oils in
the country.
2.09      Irrigated agriculture has not been developed until now, although
water resources are available. The first scheme, "La Puzunca" (300 ha),
is scheduled to be constructed shortly, and further extension of irrigation
(about 12,000 ha) is planned. The introduction of irrigation, which is
essential for crop diversification, would enable farmers to bring existing
cropland into high value crops and to increase yields and cropping intensity.



- 16 -
2.10      Machinery services are provided by MNR and private enterprises,
although large farmers and some progressive asentamientos own their own
tractors and harvesters. Until the end of 1978, machinery services were
provided by the Agricultural Directorate for the North East Region (DARNO);
this responsibility has now been transferred to the Agricultural Mechanization
Program Unit (PROMECA) within MNR. Heavy machinery service for land clearing
and leveling is almost nonexistent. All seeds are generally available, but
there are periods of shortages, a difficulty that will be overcome when a seed
store in Juticalpa is completed in early 1978. Sorghum, hybrid corn and
cotton seeds are imported and rice, beans and soybeans seeds are produced
locally. In the project area, DARNO is responsible for storage and distri-
bution of seeds. Fertilizers and agricultural chemicals are sold by private
merchants and BANAFOM's inputs store in the valley.
C. Institutional Support
2.11      Agricultural policy for the Department of Olancho is being coordi-
nated by the Regional Agricultural Committee (CAR), which is chaired by the
Director of the Regional Office of the Ministry of Natural Resource (DARNO)
and includes the regional chief of INA and a representative of BANAFOM and
COHDEFOR.  To date, however, coordination among these agencies has fallen
short of expectations.
2.12      DARNO provides assistance to the Department of Olancho, mainly in
the form of extension, research, plant protection, development of irrigation
and veterinary services. Its total professional staff of 38 consists of the
regional supervisor; two agronomists; 14 extension agents, mainly concerned
with the transfer of technology (nine work in the valley); technicians for
livestock development; social workers; and technical staff of the Catacamas
Research Station. DARNO, however, is a weak institution because of traditional
bureaucratic inertia and a lack of strong administrative direction. Decision-
making is excessively controlled by the Central office in Tegucigalpa, even
for routine matters; administrative procedures are complicated and outmoded;
and the quality of staff is generally low. Because DARNO's overall program is
complex and covers a wide array of activities, its efforts are thinly
distributed and its success with small farmers and asentamientos has been
limited. There is a critical need to establish a strong project organization
in order to mount an intensive and coordinated effort to deal more effectively
with small farmers and asentamientos.
2.13      MNR operates a small research station at Catacamas, where limited
variety testing, fertilization, and herbicide trials are carried out. The
station, however, lacks proper building and laboratory facilities and
experienced research personnel to expand its program to the level where
it could contribute significantly to the agricultural development in the
area. Also, the research program should be strengthened and oriented toward
the major crops of the valley and development of farming systems more suit-
able for the small farm subsector.
2.14      INA has a regional office for the Department of Olancho in Juticalpa,
with a total technical staff of 17, of which six are agrarian reform promoters.



- 17 -
The regional office is responsible for organizing small farmers into agrarian
reform settlements and assisting these settlements to become self-sufficient.
2.15      BANAFOM is the main institution concerned with providing agricul-
tural credit (para 1.33). It has two branches in the project area: Juticalpa,
staffed by a manager and eight credit agents, and Catacamas, staffed by a
manager and five credit agents. Each credit agent is responsible for super-
vision of about 350 borrowers. The loan portfolio of the Juticalpa branch
in 1976 was approximately L 5.4 million (US$2.7 million) and that of the
Catacamas branch, L 2.7 million (about US$1.4 million). Credit supervision
and collection are inadequate and loan repayment performance of small farmers
and asentamientos has been unsatisfactory in the area. About 42 groups,
accounting for 70% of the total number of groups borrowing, had debts in
arrears totaling L 510,000, or US$255,000 (38% of total amounts disbursed to
asentamientos). Likewise, individual small farmers had loans in arrears
totaling L 2.2 million, or US$1.1 million, equivalent to 33% of the total
amount disbursed to individual farmers.
2.16      FUNHDESA, a private foundation helping the campesinos and farmer
groups affiliated with the National Union of Campesinos (UNC), and ANACH both
have agencies in Juticalpa. The Cotton Growers' Cooperative, which controls
cotton production, also provides technical assistance and marketing facilities
to cotton growers in the region.
D. Infrastructure
2.17      There is a fairly dense road network in the valley, consisting of
123 km of all-weather roads that link the two main towns with the more impor-
tant villages. The surfacing of the road from Tegucigalpa to Catacamas is
presently being carried out with Bank financing (Loans 1341-HO and 1342-T-HO).
In addition, 52 km of penetration roads, usable about 70% of the year, link
some villages located in the center of the valley to the peripheral all-weather
road, although additional all-weather roads are needed in the project area.
2.18      Electricity, water supply, and waste disposal systems are available
only in Juticalpa and Catacamas. However, during 1977 electricity supply was
increased with additional generators and the distribution network is being
expanded to reach most villages of the valley. Health and education facili-
ties in the rural areas are inadequate.  Health services are found only in the
two urban centers, but 13 health centers, financed through an IDB loan, are
being established. An IDA credit, approved in March 1978, will support the
expansion of education facilities in the valley.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of Honduras has requested a Bank loan of US$10.5
million to help finance the Guayape Regional Development Project, emphasizing
development of the small farm sector in the Guayape Valley. The proposed
project would be the first phase of the Guayape River Watershed Development
Scheme. The feasibility study for the proposed project was prepared with the
assistance of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program (Report No. 29/27 HON, 5, August 8,
1977) and submitted by the Government to the Bank in September 1977. A list
of studies and working papers relating to the proposed project is given in
Annex 5. The project would help set up an integrated system for production
of basic grains, soybeans, and cotton by providing assistance to campesinos
grouped in agrarian reform settlements as well as to individual small land-
holders. Since the Agrarian Reform Program is an important element in its
strategy to improve income distribution and increase production in rural
areas, the Government places high priority on the project and plans to use it
as a prototype for the development of the small farm sector in other regions
of the country.
B. Brief Description
3.02      The proposed project would provide financing over a four-year
investment period to increase agricultural production. The project, designed
on a modest scale to reach the small farm sector, would emphasize agricultural
production and the development of the experience and capability necessary for
mounting a more comprehensive integrated development program in the Guayape
Valley in the future. The project would benefit about 1,200 small farmers
with landholdings of less than 20 ha each and about 70 agrarian reform settle-
ments (1,540 small farm families) through provision of an integrated service
package including improved credit and technical assistance delivery systems,
and improved road infrastructure. The project would also develop simple
irrigation techniques for farmers and build up local irrigation management and
technical expertise.
3.03      The proposed loan would be made to the Government, and a newly
created Project Unit within the MNR would be responsible for project
execution. Under an operational agreement with the Unit, SECOPT would be
responsible for implementation of the road component. Other participating
agencies would be BANAFOM, INA, DARNO, PROMECA, and URH.



- 19 -
C. Detailed Features
Productive Investment
3.04      The principal requirements for increasing agricultural production
in the project area are improved cropping patterns, improved production inputs,
mechanization, additional water for irrigation purposes, improved cultivation
practices, improved marketing facilities, and adequate credit and technical
assistance support. Funds would be made available to about 70 farmer groups
and 1,200 individual small farmers for on-farm investments and agricultural
production.
3.05      On-farm Investments.  Farmer groups would receive subloans for land
clearing, farm machinery and equipment, and grain storage sheds. Additionally,
farmer groups operating with irrigation would receive credit to cover invest-
ment costs related to irrigation works, land clearing, land leveling, and
farm machinery and equipment. eIndependent small farmers would receive funds
for motorized backpack sprayers, farm tools and small storage sheds. The
project would also provide credit for the purchase of about 20 tractors to
farmer groups that could demonstrate need and the capability to operate and
maintain a tractor efficiently.
3.06      Production Credit.  Incremental working capital would be made avail-
able to farmer groups or to individuals to cover costs of improved seeds,
agricultural chemicals, hired labor, and machinery services. Farmer groups
would have memberships ranging from 15 to 30 families, each group farming
on a communal basis. Development of farms under rainfed conditions would
be based on a more diversified cropping pattern, going from corn monoculture
to corn, beans, soybeans, sorghum and cotton. Likewise, development of irri-
gated agriculture as a pilot program would focus on a diversified cropping
pattern including soybeans, rice, and cotton based on diversion gravity, pumping
gravity and groundwater irrigation systems.
Productive Support
3.07      Machinery Pool Equipment.  The project would finance purchase
of heavy equipment (four tracked tractors, four land levelers, four combine
grain harvesters and one truck) to support PROMECA's machinery pool unit to
ensure that farmers in the project area would have access to heavy machinery
services.
3.08      Research Station - Catacamas.  Research currently carried out at
the Catacamas Research Station is extremely limited due to lack of planning,
personnel, and resources. The project would thus provide funds to the station
to finance construction of facilities, to purchase equipment and to hire addi-
tional staff so that DARNO could carry out an effective production-oriented
research program based on low-cost production systems.
3.09      Roads.  Construction and improvement of roads would be required to
ensure the flow of goods and services to and from the project area and to
permit Project Unit personnel to reach small farmers and farmer groups, partic-
ularly during adverse weather. Thus, the project would finance construction



- 20 -
and maintenance of about 35 km of all-weather roads as well as purchase of
equipment for road maintenance work in the project area.
Technical Assistance
3.10      The project would include 120 man-months of consultant services to
províde support to the Project Unit. Consultant assistance for the Project
Unit and training of local staff would be provided by four internationally
recruited specialists in irrigation, agriculture, extension and credit. The
project would also help finance a regional development study for the Aguan
Valley. The study would be executed and cofinanced by the UNDP.
Administration
3.11      The project would provide funds to cover costs of buildings, equipment
and vehicles and would cover over four years salaries of Project Unit staff,
overhead costs, incremental administrative costs of DARNO (for staff at the
Catacamas Research Station), establishment of a monitoring system for the
project and a revolving fund amounting to US$50,000. Funds would also be
supplied for overseas training of some of the technical staff of the Project
Unit.
D. Project Costs
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$14.6 million,
of which US$7.6 million, or 52%, represent the foreign exchange costs. The
cost of consultant services is estimated at US$5,000 per man-month.  The
physical contingency has been calculated at 20% of investment cost of irriga-
tion facilities and 10% of base cost on all other investment items. The price
contingency has been calculated on base cost plus physical contingency, as of
the end of March 1978, at the following annual rates: 7% for 1978-82 for the
local cost; 9% for 1977, 8% for 1978, 7.5% for 1979, and 7% for 1980-82 for
foreign exchange costs relating to technical assistance; and 9% for 1977, 7%
for 1978, 6.5% for 1979, and 6% for 1980-82 of all other foreign exchange
costs. Price increases on foreign exchange costs are in line with Bank
guidelines (January 1978). Project costs are detailed in Annex 4 and project
cost estimates are summarized as follows:



- 21 -
Total Project Costs
Foreign    Baseline
-  __---L '000          -----  -------US$'000-------------        Exchange      Cost
Local       Foreign    Total         Local       Foreign    Total           %           %
Productive Investment
Small farmers (1,200 -
Model 1)               2,992.8    2,452.8      5,445.6      1,496.4    1,226.4   2,722.8          45
Rainfed group farms
(54 - Model 2)        1,113.8    1,837.8    2,951.6           556.9       918.9   1,475.8        62            -
Irrigated group farms
(16 - Model 3)        2,180.0    1,809.0    3,989.0         1,090.0       904.5   1,994.5        45           -
Tractors (20)                    69.0       391.0       460.0         34.5       195.5      230.0       85           -
Sub-total                6,355.6    6,490.6   12,846.2        3,177.8    3,245.3   6,423.1          51           56
Productive Support
Machinery pool equipment        141.6       802.4       944.0         70.8       401.2      472.0       85            -
Catacamas research station    72.6          176.1       248.7         36.3        88.0      124.3       71
Roads (35 km)                   720.5    1,072.0    1,792.5          360.3       536.0      896.3       60           -
Sub-total                  934.7    2,050.5    2,985.2          467.4    1,025.2   1,492.6          69           13
Technical Assistance
Consultants                      55.0    1,045.0    1,100.0           27.5       522.5      550.0       95           -
Special studies 1!                -      1,500.0    1,500.0            -         750.0      750.0      100
Sub-total                   55.0    2,545.0    2,600.0            27.5    1,272.5   1,300.0         98           11
Administration                 3,511.7    1,109.1    4,620.8        1,755.8       554.6   2,310.4        24            20
Total Baseline Costs         10,857.0   12,195.2   23,052.2         5,428.5    6,097.6  11,526.1         53         100
Contingencies
Physical                       420.3        455.4       875.7        210.1       227.7      437.8       52           _
Price                        2,683.5    2,616.5    5,300.0         1,341.7    1,308.3   2.650.0         49           -
Sub-total                3,103.8    3,071.9    6,175.7        1,551.8    1,536.0   3,087.8         50           27
Total Project Cost           13,960.8   15,267.1   29.227.9         6,980.3    7.633.6  14.613.9        ,52           _
1/ To finance a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the Aguan Valley Study (currently
estimated to cost about US$2.0 million). The remaining foreign exchange costs and the local
costs will be financed by UNDP and Government.



- 22 -
E.   Financing
3.13      The Bank loan for the project would finance US$10.5 million, equiv-
alent to 72% of the total project costs, with the remainder of funds (US$4.1
million) to be provided by the Government and project beneficiaries. The
proposed financing plan is as follows:
Project Financing
(US$'000)
Bank          Government   Beneficiaries        Total
Amount    %      Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
Productive Investment
On-farm investments        4,367.7   68    1,826.1   28       229.3    4   6,423.1  10
Productive Support
Machinery pool
equipment                 401.2   85         70.8   15          -    -      472.0  100
Catacamas research
station                     99.2   80        25.2   20          -    -      124.4  100
Roads (35 km)                645.1   72       251.1   28           -    -      896.2  100
Sub-total               1,145.5   77        347.1   23          -    -   1,492.6  100
Technical Assistance
Consultants                  550.0  100           -    -           -    -     550.0  100
Special studies              750.0  100           -    -          -    -      750.0  100
Sub-total              1,300.0  100            -    -          -    -   1,300.0  100
Administration               1,451.0   63       859.4   37           -    -   2,310.4  100
Total Baseline Costs         8,264.2   72    3,032.6   26        229.3    2  11,526.1  100
Contingencies                2,235.8   72       782.2   26        69.8    2   3,087.8  100
Total Project Cost          10,500.0   72    3.814.8   26       299.1    2  14,613.9  100
3.14      The Bank loan would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs (US$7.6
million) and 41%, or US$2.9 million, of local costs; the Government would
contribute about 26% (US$3.8 million); and beneficiaries would provide about
2% (US$0.3 million) of total project costs.
3.15      The Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The Bank loan would be for 20 years including five years of
grace. Proceeds of the loan, as well as Government counterpart funds, would
be channeled through a project account in the Central Bank to MNR and other



- 23 -
participating agencies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would make counterpart funds available for project implementation.
F. Procurement
3.16      Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, road equipment, tractors
and farm machinery and equipment would total US$1.4 million, excluding contin-
gency. Individual contracts in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be
procured through international competitive bidding according to Bank procedures.
Purchases of less than US$100,000 and furniture and office equipment (US$90,000,
excluding contingency) would be procured through local competitive bidding
according to local procedures, which have proven satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement of farm inputs would be carried out by farmers through normal
commercial channels because of the size and timing of individual purchases.
Since road works (US$726,000, excluding contingency) are spread out within the
project area and include mainly improvement in existing tracts, they would be
undertaken by SECOPT on force account. Civil works (US$1.3 million, excluding
contingency) for project facilities and irrigation systems would be carried
out through local competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the
Bank.
G. Disbursement
3.17      The Bank would disburse over a period of four and a half years:
(a) 67% of amounts of subloans for on-farm investment, excluding
land leveling; small machinery and small equipment; and produc-
tion credit for independent small farmers and farmer groups
for a total value of US$4.8 million;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports, or 85%
of local expenditures (representing the estimated foreign
exchange component) if locally procured, for vehicles, road
equipment, and farm machinery and equipment for the Project
Unit, Catacamas Experiment Station, and SECOPT, for a total
value of US$0.9 million;
(c) 67% of local expenditures for civil works (roads, Project
Unit and Catacamas Experiment Station facilities), for a
total amount of US$0.7 million;
(d) 100% of expenditures for consultant services and overseas
training, for a total amount of US$1.5 million; and
(e) 67% local expenditures for operation and administration for
a total value of US$1.4 million, excluding US$50,000 for a
special revolving fund for the Project Unit to be provided by
the Government.



- 24 -
The above values include US$1 million of the US$1.9 million price contingencies;
the balance of US$0.9 million would initially be unallocated, together with the
physical contingencies (US$0.3 million), for a total amount of US$1.2 million.
3.18      Disbursements would be supported by normal documentation except
those made for farm subloans and civil works carried out through force account,
which would be made against a certified statement of expenditures, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted to the Bank for review, but would
be retained by the Government and made available for inspection by the Bank
during the course of project supervision.
3.19      The estimated schedule of disbursements by the Bank is given below,
assuming that the date of loan effectiveness would be October 1, 1978.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                          at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1979
December 31, 1978                              50
March 31, 1979                                500
June 30, 1979                              1,300
1980
September 30, 1979                         2,000
December 31, 1979                           2,600
March 31, 1980                             3,400
June 30, 1980                              4,100
1981
September 30, 1980                         4,900
December 31, 1980                           5,600
March 31, 1981                             6,300
June 30, 1981                              7,000
1982
September 30, 1981                         7,700
December 31, 1981                           8,400
March 31, 1982                              9,000
June 30, 1982                              9,400
1983
September 30, 1982                        10,000
December 31, 1982                          10,500



- 25 -
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      A Project Unit would be established within MNR to be responsible
for project implementation. This Unit would provide the institutional frame-
work for delivering an integrated service package to the small farmers and
farmer groups and ensuring coordination among the main agricultural agencies
in the valley. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MNR
would provide sufficient autonomy to the Project Unit for efficient day-to-day
administrative decision making.
4.02      The Project Unit would be headed by a nationally recruited Project
Director who would report directly to the Minister of Natural Resources and
who would have extensive experience in administration and agriculture with
emphasis on the small farm sector and irrigation development. He would be
responsible for day-to-day activities and for programming and achievement of
project objectives. He would prepare annual budgets and the work program and
would coordinate the hiring of staff and consultants, the participation of
Government agencies in project implementation, procurement of goods, and
supervision of the sublending operation. The Project Director has been
selected and attended negotiations. He is now beginning work on the
organization of the Project Unit and hiring of Project Unit staff. As-
surances were also obtained during negotiations that MNR would employ a
Project Director with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank and
that any replacement for the Project Director would be subject to Bank approval.
Since it is anticipated that the Project Director would also be in charge of
DARNO to assure full coordination of DARNO's and the Project Unit's activities,
assurances were obtained that the Project Director would spend at least 80% of
his time on the project and that MNR would appoint a sub-director for the
Project Unit and also for DARNO. The establishment of the Project Unit and
the appointment of the sub-directors would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
4.03      The Project Director would be supported by a small core of highly
qualified staff consisting of one economist/statistician, 25 credit and exten-
sion personnel, one irrigation engineer, one agricultural engineer, three
irrigation extension agents, one topographer, one surveyor, and administrative
and support staff. Assurances that such staff would be provided and be given
adequate remuneration were obtained at negotiations. The Project Unit
would also be supported by four internationally recruited specialists in
agriculture/research, credit, extension and irrigation (Annex 2). The agri-
culturalist and the credit specialist would be contracted for 24 months and
the extension specialist and irrigation expert for 36 months. Assurances
were obtained that these four specialists would be employed by November 1, 1978
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.04      The Project Unit would have three line departments--Administrative,
Technical and Irrigation. The Administrative Department would handle all
administrative matters relating to the project, while the Technical Department,



- 26 -
which would be headed by a senior extension officer, would be primarily
responsible for the agricultural program. Extension staff of this department
would promote and supervise credit and focus on the transfer of appropriate
technological packages to the independent small farmers and farmer groups.
The staff would provide technical support to farmers in management decisions
relating to development technology, on-farm investments, purchase of inputs
and sales of products, and implementation of production management systems,
and supply information on input/output prices and on factor and product
marketing. Additionally, the staff would assist small farmers and farmer
groups in preparing investment plans for subloan applications, taking into
account the sub-borrowers' resources, capabilities, and proposed cropping
pattern and farming practices. Demonstration plots and field trials would
be established to show farmers the benefits to be realized from improved
cropping patterns, use of inputs, and improved farming practices. The exten-
sion staff would also be responsible for collecting pertinent data for manage-
ment decisions and information to determine the rate of adoption of new or
improved farming techniques on production and farmers' income.  The Technical
Department would have 22 agents and two supervisors, the latter reporting
directly to the Project Director. The supervisors would be responsible for
the coordination and supervision of all field and operational activities. To
facilitate the work of the extension staff, vehicles, audiovisual aids, and
radio communications would be provided. The consultant experts in agriculture,
credit and extension (para 4.03) would provide support to the Technical
Department in developing suitable technological packages for small farmers and
asentamientos by establishing a viable credit and technical assistance
delivery system for the project area and by designing a suitable training
program for the extension staff. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness
that the Government had transferred four extension agents from MNR and three
credit agents from BANAFOM permanently to the Project Unit to ensure sufficient
technical staff support during the initial project implementation period.
4.05      The Technical Department would also be responsíble for the prepara-
tion and implementation of the training program for the technical staff. This
program would include instruction in technical matters relating to agriculture
(improved farming technology, cropping pattern and cropping intensity, farming
systems and farm practices, and irrigated agriculture); to credit promotion
and supervision, including credit policies and procedures, preparation of
farm investment plans, delivery of technical assistance to farmers; and to
monitoring the credit and extension program. The program would include over-
seas training for some technical staff to enhance their overall effectiveness.
4.06      The Irrigation Department would be responsible for implementation of
the irrigation program under the project. It would carry out investigations and
surveys of possible irrigation schemes in the project area; select farmer groups
for participation in the irrigation program; prepare designs for irrigation systems;
make arrangements for contracting civil works and for supervising construction;
give training and technical assistance to farmers in irrigation techniques;
and supervise farmers in the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes
during implementation. The department would be headed by the irrigation
engineer who would be directly responsible to the Project Director. He would



- 27 -
be assisted by an agricultural engineer, topographers, surveyors, irrigation
extension agents, and support staff. The irrigation expert would provide
assistance in carrying out the irrigation program and would be responsible
for training the technical staff of the Project Unit in irrigation techniques
and management.
4.07      The Project Unit would be provided with a revolving fund amounting
to US$50,000, which could be drawn on only by the Project Director when money
was urgently needed to prevent serious delays in implementation of the project.
The establishment of the fund and the rules and guidelines for its operation
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
B. Participating Institutions
4.08      Inter-agency coordination would be achieved through CAR.  CAR would
monitor project implementation and advise the Project Director on policies
and programs for agricultural development in the Department of Olancho. It
would also attempt to resolve problems that might arise in the phasing of
the institutional participation in the project.
4.09      MNR would enter into operational agreements with BANAFOM for the
credit program and SECOPT for the road component. Also, BANAFOM, under
a subsidiary agreement with the borrower, would act as financial agency for
the credit component. The signing of an agreement with the concerned entity,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for the compo-
nent involved. Additionally, a condition of disbursement for the machinery
service and research program would be that MNR would provide operational
programs acceptable to the Bank. The Project Unit would also enter into
cooperation agreements with URH for the irrigation program and with INA for
the establishment and participation of farmer groups. Under the latter, INA
would agree to use its best efforts to set up at least 15 new agrarian reform
settlements in Guayape each year, which should be sufficient to insure that
the project targets for lending to agrarian reform settlements can be met.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the cooperation agreement
between the Project Unit and URH would be finalized by October 1, 1978 and
the Project Unit and INA by December 1, 1978.
4.10      BANAFOM would  function as the banking agent responsible for the
disbursement and collection of subloan repayments and participate in the
credit training program to be provided by the credit specialist. For its
services, BANAFOM would receive a margin of 2% on outstanding subloan balances.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BANAFOM, by March 1, 1979,
would carry out a detailed arrears analysis by category of sub-borrower
in the project area and make adequate provision for write-off and rescheduling
of existing debts as well as for intensification of credit supervision and
collection. Additionally, assurances were obtained that the Government would
keep the Bank informed on the progress of the proposed reorganization of
BANAFOM and give the Bank sufficient opportunity to comment on final proposals
for such reorganization.



- 28 -
4.11      DARNO would implement the research program at the Catacamas Experi-
ment Station and PROMECA would own and operate heavy equipment that would
constitute its machinery pool service. Farmers would pay for machinery
services provided by PROMECA. It would also prepare an effective production-
oriented research program based on low-cost production systems and provide
sufficient staff to carry it out. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that MNR would submit a proposal for such a program to the Bank for comments
and employ a qualified agronomist with experience in research, and two agri-
cultural engineers specializing in soil and water management and in farm
machinery and equipment, both by January 1, 1979. An assurance was also
obtained that the Government would train workshop staff to adequately maintain
the machinery pool equipment and would store sufficient spare parts to support
it. Further, assurances were obtained that MNR would keep separate accounts
for the machinery pool, which, inter alia, monitor the costs and revenues of
machinery and equipment, and that it would maintain tariffs at sufficient
levels to recover at least the variable costs of operation and the capital cost
of equipment, taking into account the existing market rates for similar services.
4.12      SECOPT's Directorate General of Highway Maintenance would implement
the road program under the direction of the Project Unit. SECOPT has tentatively
identified 50 km of roads for construction in the project area; the Project
Unit would advise SECOPT on the priorities for about 35 km of road construction
and review the detailed work program prepared by SECOPT. SECOPT would conduct
field investigations, prepare enginering plans, design and cost estimates and
carry out the construction program. Annual maintenance of project roads would
be carried out by SECOPT by force account. Assurances were sought during
negotiations that the Government, by December 1, 1978, would submit a proposal
identifying about 35 km of roads that would be included in the project to the
Bank for comments. Also, assurances were obtained that project area roads
would be maintained by SECOPT's Directorate General for Highway Maintenance
and that maintenance equipment financed under the project would be utilized
only for the maintenance of such roads.
4.13      URH would assist the Irrigation Department of the Project Unit in
selecting potential farmer groups for participation in the irrigation program,
conducting topographic and soal surveys for selected irrigated areas preparing
designs for the irrigation systems, and supervising works under construction.
An assurance was obtained that the URH would complete rehabilitation of
the La Puzunca main irrigation scheme in the project area by April 1, 1979.
INA would be responsible for organizing small farmers into asentamientos for
possible participation in the project. INA would also assist existing asenta-
meintos in attaining legal personality. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.



- 29 -
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.14      On-farm investment and production credit would be channeled through
BANAFOM. Small farmers and farmer groups who have sound farm investment plans
for crop development and who demonstrate sufficient capacity to mount such
investment programs would be eligible for subloans. For project purposes, a
small farmer would be defined as one who: (a) has less than 20 ha of farm land
(with or without title) and derives at least 75% of the family income from
farming; and (b) has farm assets not exceeding the equivalent of US$30,000.
Farmer groups of different legal personalities would include asentamientos,
pre-cooperatives, cooperatives and "empresas asociativas campesinas" (peasant
association enterprises). Asentamientos work on Government land under the
guidance and general supervision of INA, but have no judicial status or
land title. The pre-cooperatives are in similar status (under guidance of
the Direccion de Fomento de Cooperativas) as an interim step to forming a
cooperative. Cooperatives and peasant association enterprises have full legal
status but generally no title to the farming land they work. All these farmer
groups would be eligible for a subloan, provided that: (a) no less than 80% of
the members of the group are classified as small farmers, according to the
definition given above; and (b) no less than 60% of total farm production is
produced by communal group farming efforts (Schedule A).
4.15      Subloans would be for the purchase of production inputs including
machinery services, on-farm development, construction of irrigation facilities,
farm machinery and equipment, and storage facilities. Subloan maturities for
on-farm investment, including machinery and equipment, would not exceed 16 years,
with grace periods up to three years, and, if necessary, interest would be
capitalized during the grace period. Subloan maturities for production inputs
would not exceed 12 months, with no grace period. The interest rate of sub-
loans would be 11%, which is in keeping with the Government's interest rate
policy and in line with the interest rate used under IDA Credit 628-HO.
The 11% interest is a positive rate at the current level of inflation in
Honduras and is also comparable with the commercial rate. For subloans
for production credit, security would be in the form of chattel mortgages on
the estimated crop value and some additional guarantee (chattel mortgages on
farm machinery and equipment or livestock) to cover any remaining portion.
Subloans for on-farm investment would be backed by chattel mortgage on the
crops, farm implements and equipment, and livestock. Since most farmer groups
in the project area have no legal status and their land is not registered,
an INA guarantee, plus the joint and several liability of each member of the
group, would also be required as collateral. Beneficiaries would make finan-
cial contributíons equivalent to 5% of the on-farm cash investment costs.
4.16      The Project Unit would prepare farm investment plans and subloan
applications for on-farm investment and production, carry out technical and
financial analyses of subloan applications, and evaluate creditworthiness of
applicants. An effective credit delivery system would be established by the
Project Unit to simplify lending procedures, expedite subloan approvals, and
improve sub-borrower repayment performance (Schedule A). A Credit Commitee at
the Project Unit level would consider and approve project subloans. The Committee,
composed of: (a) the Project Unit Director, as Chairman; (b) the local BANAFOM



- 30 -
Juticalpa office, and the Chief Credit Agent of the BANAFOM Juticalpa office as
his alternate; and (c) the INA regional representative and the Regional Credit
Officer of INA as his alternate would be supported in legal matters by BANAFOM's
office in Tegucigalpa. The Technical Department of the Project Unit would
monitor the collection of subloans, with BANAFOM regional offices implementing
collection procedures and handling the funds. The Government would assume the
financial risk and BANAFOM would receive a margin of 2% on outstanding subloan
balances for its participation. Assurances were obtained that the lending
terms and conditions listed in Schedule A would be followed.
Cotton for Small Farmers
4.17      Cotton growing is regulated jointly by the Cotton Growers Cooperative
and MNR and ís allowed only in regions that are considered ecologically suit-
able for the crop (Departments of Olancho, Choluteca, Paraiso, and Valle).
In order to grow cotton, a farmer must become a member of the Cotton Growers
Cooperative and obtain a permit. However, permits are issued only to those
farmers who plant at least 10 ha of cotton because areas of that size can
be sprayed from the air for insect control. Since small farmers in the
project area are interested in growing cotton because it is a high value
crop, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
grant cotton growing permits to small farmers with less than 10 ha in the
project area, provided that portable backpack sprayers for insect control
are used and that they have agreed to accept the Project Unit's supervision
of farm development. Assurances were also obtained that the Government
would (a) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study
on improvements in cotton pest control measures for the cotton production areas
of the Department of Olancho, and a program for the application of such
control measures; and (b) present, by March 1, 1980, such study and program to
the Bank for comments.
USAID Funds
4.18      USAID has earmarked US$7.5 million of uncommitted funds (para 1.40)
of the Agricultural Sector Loan for asentamientos throughout the country, and,
to date, funds have been committed to eight asentamientos in the project area.
Since there is sufficient demand for these funds outside the project area, an
assurance was obtained that no further USAID agricultural credit funds or
funds under any other Government financial assistance project would be
committed in the project area.
Aguan Valley Study
4.19      The comprehensive regional study of the Aguan Valley would be executed
by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Assurances were sought
during negotiations that the consultants and the terms of reference for the
various studies to be undertaken in preparing the regional development plan
would be satisfactory to the Bank. Additionally, the signing of a project agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, by UNDP and the Government for the Aguan Valley
study would be a condition of disbursement for this component.



- 31 -
D. Accounts and Audit
4.20      Project accounts under the First and Second Livestock Development
Projects and the ongoing Agricultural Credit Project have been audited by
the Superintendency of Banks, the performance of which has been generally
satisfactory.  MNR, BCH and the participating institutions would maintain
separate project accounts which would also be audited annually by independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, according to procedures acceptable to
the Bank.  Audited reports would be forwarded to the Bank within four months
of the close of each fiscal year.  Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
E. Prolect Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      A Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be set up within the
Project Unit to conduct a continuous study of project activities and to
evaluate project performance. The section would be headed by an agricultural
economist with a background in statistics who would receive support from
designated administrative staff and extension agents. He would design a
simple and comprehensive system for collecting data and information which
would serve as a management tool in the decision-making process and in
eliminating bottlenecks in project implementation. It would also provide
information and data for evaluating the overall social and economic impact
of the project, the effectiveness of each project component with respect to
project targets, and the effectiveness of the chosen strategy and modes of
development in achieving basic project objectives.
4.22      The monitoring system would examine the effect of the irrigation
program and the delivery system for credit and technical assistance on yields
and production levels, farmers' income, and acceptability of proposed techno-
logical packages (adaptation rate of improved cropping pattern and farm
practices, cropping intensity, and input application and use). In addition,
it would monitor credit use and recovery and extension performance. The
Project Unit would send quarterly progress reports to the Bank highlighting
the progress, problems, and operating results of the project and would prepare
a project completion report. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be established by January 1,
1979 and that quarterly progress reports would be sent to the Bank within two
months of the end of each quarter. An assurance was also obtained that a
project completion report would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the proposed project investments have been completed.
V. SPECIFICATIONS OF FARM MODELS
5.01      The farm development program would be carried out within the
traditional pattern of farming systems and forms of cooperation in the
project area. The introduction of improved cropping pattern and the rate
of cropping intensity would be gradual in order to allow farmers to gain
experience and to ensure farmer acceptance and participation. As a first



- 32 -
approximation, three farm models are outlined in Annex 3 to illustrate the
type of investment, based on improved technology, and the expected financial
returns.
Cropping Pattern
5.02      Project participants would adopt a diversified cropping pattern
that would include the traditional food crops but would give emphasis to high
value products such as cotton and soybeans. Based on the available experi-
ence by farmers in the valley, the present heavy emphasis on corn would be
reoriented in favor of a corn-soybean-cotton rotation with corn followed by
beans and sorghum as a second crop. The proposed cropping pattern would be
readily adopted since there are already asentamientos and small farmers with
experience in growing cotton and a few are already growing soybeans and
sorghum with satisfactory results. In addition, the Government's policy for
requiring contracts with future prices for soybeans and sorghum is a strong
incentive for farmers to grow these crops. Under irrigation, a cotton -
soybean - rice pattern would be adopted, with rice as a double crop. The
proposed cropping patterns and cropping intensity for each model would be as
follows:
Y__---------------Years --------------------
1         2          3         4          5
Model 1 (10 ha net)
Corn                                7.0        7.0        5.0       4.0        2.0
Beans                                0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        1.0
Soybeans                             1.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        4.0
Sorghum                             3.0        3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0
Cotton                                 -         -        2.0       4.0        4.0
Total ha                      11.5       12.5      12.5       13.5      14.0
Cropping intensity, %                115       125        125       135        140
Model 2 (75 ha net)
Corn                                  60        50         45        30         20
Beans                                  3         5          5        10         10
Soybeans                               5        10         10        15         25
Sorghum                               10        15         15        15         20
Cotton                                 -        15         20        30         30
Total ha                        78         95        95        100        105
Cropping intensity, %                104       127        127       133        140
Model 3 (71 ha net)
Corn                                  40        26          -         -          -
Beans                                 15        12          -         -          -
Soybeans                              10        10         25        30         30
Sorghum                               14         -          -         -          -
Cotton                                21        15         28        28         28
Rice                                  -         40         56        56         56
Total ha                       100        103        109       114        114
Cropping intensity, %                141       145        153        160       160



- 33 -
Yields and Prices
5.03      The projected yield levels of the traditional crops (corn and beans)
and cotton are based on yields already obtained by farmers and asentamientos
in the area, while those of soybeans and sorghum are based on the results
achieved by some farmers that have begun planting these crops with very
little technical assistance. Rice yield assumptions are based on the yields
(5 tons/ha) obtained by farmers with technical assistance using Cica 4 and
Cica 6 varieties. CIAT figures in its "Proposals for Increasing Rice Produc-
tion in the Humid Tropics of the Americas," P. Jennings, 1975, assumes a
minimum yield of 3.5 m tons/ha per crop (25% moisture content). In Nicaragua,
national average rice yields (32,000 ha) are 3 m tons/ha per crop without
technical assistance. Additionally, the proposed yields have been checked
against results obtained with good practices in the Olancho region and under
comparable natural conditions in Costa Rica and Nicaragua. As a whole, the
yield projections for the first year of the project are below those presently
achieved in the area; but the projections at full development are well within
the range of yields being achieved by the more progressive farmers using
improved seeds and technical assistance. In this way full account has been
taken of the differences between yields in the more progressive farms and the
overall average yields as well as possible slow rate of adoption of new farm
practices. Yields and price levels used in the farm development models are as
follows:
Yields (tons/ha)
---------------Years-------------------
Without  ------------With Project---------------
Crop                    Project    1       2      3       4      5       6
Corn                      1.50   2.00   2.30   2.40   2.50   2.50   2.50
Beans                     0.40   0.54   0.67   0.75   0.80   0.80   0.80
Soybeans (rainfed
single farmer)             -   1.25   1.32   1.45   1.52   1.60   1.60
Soybeans (rainfed
group farm)                -   1.32   1.45   1.52   1.60   1.60   1.60
Soybeans (irrigated)         -   1.32   1.58   1.73   1.91   2.00   2.00
Sorghum                      -   1.40   1.75   1.90   2.00   2.10   2.10
Cotton (rainfed)             -   1.30   1.45   1.52   1.60   1.60   1.60
Cotton (irrigated)           -   1.45   1.74   1.91   2.00   2.00   2.00
Rice                         -   3.00   3.75   4.12   4.33   4.54   4.54
Machinery and Labor Reguirement
5.04      Some farm activities such as land leveling, land preparation and
harvesting would be mechanized. While tractors and machinery would be
purchased by some farmer groups, the small individual farmers and some farmer
groups would depend on tractor hire service for land preparation and for
shellíng and threshing. Labor requirements would vary with development
models. For an individual small farm, labor requirements would be met by
family labor except in peak labor periods during weeding and harvesting, when
independent farmers would need an additional labor input of about 277 man-days



- 34 -
per annum at full development. Much of this labor would be obtained under
barter arrangements. Farmer groups, which would operate on a communal basis,
would rely on family members to meet labor needs. Labor coefficients for
farm development models are shown in Tables 3, 9 and 15 in Annex 3.
VI. PROJECT PRODUCTION. DEMAND AND MARKETING
Production
6.01      It is estimated that at full development (year 9) incremental
production from the project would be as follows:
Incremental Production
Commodity                     at Full Development (m tons)
Corn                                     (8,955)
Beans                                     1,152
Rice                                      4,068
Sorghum                                   9,828
Soybeans                                 10,800
Cotton (raw)                             11,168
Using 1977 farmgate prices given in paragraph 6.04, the annual total value
of incremental output would be about US$8.0 million.
Demand and Marketing
6.02      Honduras exports cotton, and, in years of good production variable
quantities of beans, corn and sorghum. Rice and vegetable oil (for which
soya would substitute) are consistently imported. Corn, beans, rice and
sorghum form a large part of the traditional national diet. Demand projec-
tions based on a population growth rate of 3% annually and an average annual
increase in GDP per capita of 2.4% indicate that the incremental production of
corn, beans, rice, sorghum and soybeans would find a ready internal market,
while cotton would continue to be exported.
6.03      Satisfactory marketing channels exist for all commodities.  In the
case of the basic grains (corn, beans, rice and sorghum), established whole-
salers in Juticalpa, truckers servicing grain merchants in Tegucigalpa, and
the grain purchasing facilities of BANAFOM at Juticalpa and Catacamas would
handle farm output. The current installed storage capacity of 700 m tons in
the valley will be increased to 4,300 m tons in 1978, thus providing sufficient
storage in the valley. Soybeans are now sold to a private oil extraction
plant in Tegucigalpa under terms negotiated by the Government under the soya
development project administered by MNR, and it is expected that this plant



- 35 -
would be able to absorb anticipated increased production. Cotton would be
handled by the Cotton Growers Cooperative and be transported to San Lorenzo
where the gin is located.
6.04      In the case of corn, beans, sorghum and rice, prices are based upon
the average guarantee price established by BANAFOM during the three years
1975-77. The price for soya is that currently paid by purchasers under
contracts negotiated by Government on behalf of producers. In the case of
cotton, the price is the average paid by the Cooperative for raw cotton,
during the three years 1975-77.  Farmgate prices assumed are summarized
as follows:
Commodity                 US$ per m ton
Corn                          127.5
Beans                         249.0
Rice                          175.0
Sorghum                       100.0
Soybeans                      209.5
Cotton (raw)                  441.0
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. On-farm Operation
7.01      Based on the technical coefficients given in Chapter V, three
farm enterprise models, ranging from 10 ha to 75 ha, were analyzed. These
models, while intended to be illustrative only, are based upon fíeld observa-
tions of the types of enteeprises expected to be undertaken by project bene-
ficiaries. Details of operating and investment costs, yield and production
projections, and projected cash flows are presented in Annex 3.
7.02      Income of beneficiaries from the enterprises to be financed under
the project would increase significantly, as is shown below, providing suffi-
cient incentive to project beneficiaries to participate in the investment
program.



- 36 -
Net Cash Income per Family        Investment   Investment
Without     With Project          Cost per      Cost per
Prolect  after Debt Service 1/   Family            ha
------------------ Us$ ------------------------
Model 1 (10-ha rainfed
single family farm)         579             2,519               1,500          150
Model 2 (75-ha rainfed
group farm - 22 families)  227                959               1,323         388
Model 3 (75-ha irrigated
group farm - 22 families)  227              1,962              4,778        1,402
1/   Year 7 for models 1 and 2, and year 17 for model 3.
7.03      The financial rates of return on investments are summarized below:
Financial Rate       Projected
of Return, %      No. of Subloans
Model 1 (10-ha rainfed
single family farm)                              43                 1,200
Model 2 (75-ha rainfed
group farm - 22 families)                        33                    54
Model 3 (75-ha irrigated
group farm - 22 families)                        26                    16
7.04      The financial rates of return on the farm development models are
high because of the introduction of high value products, improved cropping
pattern and farming prices, and low farm investment costs, particularly for
the rainfed farms. The high rates may also be attributed to improvements in
marketing, research, and extension services. The financial rate of return is
lower for the irrigated farming system compared to the rainfed systems because
of the relatively higher investment costs of the irrigated farms. However,
the net return per family, considering the amount of land that would be
contributed by the participant (10 ha in the case of a single family rainfed
farm and 3.4 ha in the case of the irrigated group farm), would be higher for
irrigated farms than for the rainfed farms. Also, the net return per hectare
would likewise be higher in the case of the irrigated farms compared to the
rainfed farms.



- 37 -
B. Fiscal Impact
7.05      For the productive component (US$8.2 million), investment costs,
which amount to about US$3,000/family, would be recovered through the credit
mechanism. Project cost relating to the machinery pool (US$0.6 million)
would be recovered through tariff charges for machinery services. Other
cash costs (US$5.8 million) relating to the productive support component,
technical assistance and administration, which would benefit a broader group
than the direct participants in the project, would not be recovered. At full
development, the project would contribute about US$264,000 annually to Govern-
ment revenues, derived primarily from import and sales taxes on agricultural
inputs. Tax revenues based on personal income or export taxes would be negli-
gible since personal exemptions would exceed the individual income of project
beneficiaries and there is presently no export tax on cotton. The Government's
average annual contribution after project completion for recurrent expenditure
would amount to US$240,000, which would not place undue strain on Government's
annual public capital expenditure budget.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits and Justification
8.01      The proposed project is designed to reach the small farm subsector,
which until now has received only sporadic and limited assistance for economic
and social advancement. The project would improve farm income for lower
income groups, which fall within the Bank's rural poverty target group, and
accelerate agricultural production in the Guayape Valley. The project by
providing critical assistance to asentamientos would provide a "big push"
to the Agrarian Reform Program, which is the Government's principal mechanism
minimizing poverty and improving income distribution in rural areas. Successful
implementation and positive results of the project would, through demonstra-
tion effect, increase small farmers' confidence in the Government's Agrarian
Reform Program and make them more responsive to active participation in
development programs.
8.02      The project would focus on both high value export commodity (cotton)
aud import substitution products (basic grains and soybeans). Through an
integrated system of production of basic grains, soybeans, and cotton, the
project would transform small subsistence farmers into commercial entre-
preneurs, and diversify and expand agricultural production in the valley.
The irrigation program under the project would assist the Government in
developing water resources more fully in the valley, bringing additional areas
of land into diversified agricultural production and shifting land already in
use to higher value crops. Further, the project would develop the insti-
tutional capacity to implement irrigation schemes, teach farmers irrigation
practices, and train local staff in irrigation techniques.



- 38 -
8.03      Annual incremental production generated by the project at full
development (year 9) would be about 6,093 m tons of basic grains (corn, beans,
rice and sorghum); 10,800 m tons of soybeans and 11,168 m tons of cotton.
The projected annual incremental net export earnings of cotton at full
development would amount to about US$5 million.
8.04      About 1,200 small farmers with landholdings of less than 20 ha and
about 70 agrarian reform settlements (about 1,540 small farm families) would
participate directly in the development program. Beneficiaries in the project
area are in the poverty group, and, under improved conditions, it is expected
that the average family net cash income would increase from US$579 to US$2,519
for small independent farmers and from US$227 up to US$1,962 for farmer
groups participating in the Agrarian Reform Program. At full development, the
project would also be directly responsible for the employment of 600 persons
and 333,000 man-days of hired labor, equivalent to 1,280 full-time jobs, and
would substantially reduce underemployment of beneficiaries (over 2,700 farm
families) in the project area.
8.05      The project would also make a substantial contribution through
institution building. With its emphasis on strong project administration,
interagency coordination, and establishment of an effective delivery system
for credit and technical assistance, it would provide the institutional
framework for dealing more effectively with small farmers in the valley as
well as in other regions of the country.
8.06      Finally, the proposed project would provide the basis for a long-
range program to develop the entire Guayape Valley, which is an important
food producing area of the country. Similar projects could then be carried
out in other regions without placing too much of a burden on Government
finances. The average annual Government contribution during the implementa-
tion period and after project completion would be less than 0.5% of the annual
public capital expenditure.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.07      The economic rate of return of the project over 20 years is esti-
mated at 21%. All costs have been included except for price contingencies
and "special studies," the latter having no direct relation to production
under the project. Results of the economic analysis are summarized on page
39.



HONDURAS
GUAYAAE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
E.o-¡.i AnIy.le
1           2            3           4            3           6                                                10           11           12           13          14           15          16-20
Ie------et. 0  tent Orne  ---i-ct (etoe)
Core                                               1,083        2,988       4,232        4,720        1,613      (3,095)     (6,455)      (8,955>     (8,955)      (8,955)      (8,955)     (8,955)      (8.955)      (8,955)      (8,955)     (8,955)
Ornas                                                  56         170          283         392          562         780          992       1.152        1.152       1.152        1,152        1.152        1,152       1,152        1,152        1,152
Soyb-a- e                                             342       1, 212       2,465       4,044        6,023       7,624        9,156      10,808        080  10,      880 10,800       10      .800o,a   10,800       19,800       16,800       10,600
Socgho                                              1.882       2,753        4,803       7,387        8.489       9,036        9,468       9,828        9,828       9,828        8,828        9,828        9,828       9,828        8.828        9,828
Cocctt   (Oo                                          122         404        1,481       3,575        6,306       8,954       10,784      11,040       11.168       11,168      11,168       11,168       11,168      11,168       11,168       11.168
Rice (pnddy)                                          -           480        1,560       2,903        3,614       3,856        3.997       4,068        4,068       4,068       ,4,068        4,068       4,068        4.068        4,068        4,068
Econoini Prices nt FraRto (L/e con)
Cor.                                                 253          255          230         255          255         233          235         255          255         253          255          255         255          255          235          2055
B.ses                                                 498         498          498         498          498         498          498         498          498          498         498          498          498         498          498          4988
Soyb-an                                               526         5352         532         558          584         610          636         666          666          666         666          666          666         666          666          666
S-rgh-e                                               200         200          200         200          208         200          200         208          208          288         200          200          200         200          200          200
CoRrO   (na                                           862         949          823         825          823         823          823         823          823          823         823          823          823         823          825          825
Ric-                                                  3s0         350          358         350          350         350          350         350          350          350         350          350          350          350         350          350
Ioa----c.1 Value of 0nceot (L '008)
Core                                                  256.3       761.9      1,079.1     1,203,6        411.3      (789.2)   (1,646.0)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.53   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)   (2,283.5)-
B.se                                                   27.9         84.7       141.9        195.2       279.9        388.4       494.0       573.7        573.7        573.7        573.7       573.7        573.7        573.7       573.7        573.7     a
Soyb-au                                               179.9        644.8     1,311.4     2,256.5      3,517.4      4,650.6    5,810.5      7,192.8      7,192.8      7,192.0     7,192.8      7,192.8      7,192,8     7,192.8      7,192,8      7,192,8
S-rghom                                               208.4       550.6        068,86    1,477.4      1,693.8      1,807.2     1,893.6      1,965,6     1,965,6      1,965,6      1,965,6     1,865,6      1,965.6'    1,965,6       1,865.6     1,965.6
CoRRe  (on                                            103.2       343.0      1,218.8      2,942.2     5,189.8      7,369.1     8,875,2     9,085.9      9,191.3      9,191.3      9,191.3     9,191,3      9,1941,5     9,191.5:     9,191,3     9,191.5
Rice                                                  -            168,0       546.0     1,016.0.    1.264,9       1.349.6      1,398.9     1.423.8     1.423,8      1.423,8      1,423.8     1.423.8      1,23,8       1.4238       1,423,8      1.423.8
Totall.r1 ees
OcnoValor                                 769.7      2,333.0     3,257.9      9,090,9    12,357.1    14,775.7    16,826,2    17,958,3    19,063.7    18,063.7    18,063.7    18,063.7    18,063.7    19,063.7    18,063.7    18,063,7
1/
1--ce---tnl Ea-osi Cauca~                                5810.2      7.120.4      9.317,6    10.365,4    10.098.9    11,403,0    12306          1.0.9    12.405.9    12,329,5    12.826.9    12.072,5    12.032,5    12.072.5    12.072,5    11.815.6
ToR.l Net Inr---sta1
E.-o.oBn.. fnertR                           (5,040,5)   (4,567.4)   (3,059,7)   (1,274,5)    2,258.2        3,372.7     4,497.6      5,552.4     5,657.8      5,734,2      5,236.8     5,991.2      5,991.2      5,991.2      5,991.2      6,248,1
Eonuomi Rece of Retar  -  217.
1REclo.dieg ...t of apeils stdie..
Peb-usr 21, 1970



- 40 -
8.08      The analysis is based upon the results of the farm models detailed
in Chapter VII and the following key assumptions:
(a) output from the project has been valued at projected farmgate
prices, which, except in the case of soybeans and cotton, are assumed to
remain constant throughout the life of the project. Output of sorghum,
rice, beans and soybeans arising from the project is assumed to displace
imports, while cotton is assumed to be exported. In the case of all project
commodities except soybeans (a new crop in Honduras), there are well developed
and competitive marketing structures. Accordingly, prevailing prices are
judged to be near marketing efficiency levels. Output of corn, beans, rice and
sorghum has been conservatively valued at the average of the floor price
offered by BANAFOM for the three crop years 1975-77. Farmgate prices for raw
cotton and soybeans have been based upon world prices (1977 constant terms) as
forecast by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. In all
cases, projected world prices have been converted to cif Honduras prices and
then to farmgate equivalents by making due allowance for appropriate trans-
portation, handling and processing charges. All prices used are shown in the
table on page 39.
(b) all production costs have been based upon September/October
1977 farmgate prices;
(c) it was assumed that following full development (year 9), the
need for Project Unit services would diminish. Accordingly, for
purposes of analysis, Project Unit operating costs were reduced to 75%
of their peak level during years 11-15 and to 50% of their peak level
thereafter;
(d) in the analysis, provision was made for the replacement of
Project Unit vehicles, road maintenance equipment and tractors and
equipment at the farm level;
(e) since the demand for labor in rural areas in Honduras varies
seasonally with the crop cycles of rainfed agriculture, unskílled labor
employed by the project was valued at 80% of the nominal wage to allow
for the economic effects of seasonal underemployment;
(f) on account of the levels of import and export taxes and quan-
titative controls existing in Honduras, the estimated shadow exchange
rate was not significantly different from the official exchange rate.
Accordingly, foreign exchange was not shadow priced; and
(g) major transfer payments were deducted from project costs.
8.09      Results of a sensitivity analysis to test the impact of differing
levels and combinations of costs and/or revenues are detailed below:



- 41 -
Economic Return
of Project
Best estimate                                 21%
With a 10% decrease in benefits               14%
With a 5% decrease in benefits and
a 5% increase in all costs                    14%
With a 10% increase in all costs              15%
With unskilled labor valued at
its market prices                          20%
C. Project Risk
8.10      All technical and institutional aspects of the proposed project
were closely scrutinized during preparation and appraisal stages in an
effort to detect and minimize possible risk factors. Because the Govern-
ment's past efforts and experience with other projects dealing with small
farmers have yielded only limited results, the proposed project has been
designed on a modest scale to develop experience and capability on which
to base a more comprehensive program over the long run in the Guayape Valley.
Additionally, the project includes attractive remuneration schedules to
attract highly qualified staff and to avert delays in implementation. However,
the success of the project would depend largely on institutional support,
continued Government determination to alleviate rural problems, and continued
interest and desire among small farmers to participate effectively in the
proposed development program.
8.11      The main risks confronting the project would be the acceptance
of proposed technological packages by the small farmers and farmer groups;
instability of asentamientos; deficiencies in the institutions involved in
project execution; and shortfalls in attaining production targets due to
technical problems and adverse weather conditions. To minimize these risks,
the proposed technological packages are based on the improvements of existing
farming systems and forms of cooperation in the project area. Introduction
of new and high value crops (cotton, rice, and soybeans) to small farmers
and asentamientos would be phased in with moderate intensity. Farmers would
be motivated to accept the proposed techaological packages and to utilize
services effectively under the project through a viable delivery system
for credit and technical assistance. To overcome any institutional shortfall,
the project would include a strong project organizational infrastructure
supported by technical assistance to deal more effectively with the small
farmers in the project area. To minimize risks from the irrigation component,
since the country has very limited experience with irrigation development, the
proposed project has included a pilot irrigation scheme to introduce simple
irrigation techniques to small farmers, determine viable irrigation farming
systems and build up local management and technical expertise. Nevertheless,
an element of uncertainty prevails in regard to the asentamientos' willingness



- 42 -
to accept the viability of the irrigation systems to be proposed. In view of
this, the irrigation component would have to be monitored closely and modifi-
cations may have to be introduced during project implementation.
D. Environmental Impact
8.12      The main thrust of the project would be on production activities
which would result in improvement of land and water management. Fertilizer
and agricultural chemicals would have minimal effect on the environment,
given normal precaution in their use. At present, large quantities of plant
protection chemicals are used in commercial cotton production; cotton growers
in the project area use 15 to 18 aerial sprayings for insect control. Their
increased and widespread use could have detrimental effects on the environment
and human health. However, under the project, beneficiaries would use only
seven to eight aerial sprayings for insect control, and the Project Unit and
DARNO, through the technical assistance program, would advise and monitor the
use of chemical pesticides and their proper handling by independent farmers
and farmer groups engaged in cotton production. The Government would also
prepare a study on improvements in cotton pest control and implement a program
for the application of such control measures (para 4.17).
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) MNR would provide sufficient autonomy to the Project Unit
for efficient day-to-day administrative decision making
(para 4.01);
(b) MNR would employ a Project Director with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, that the Project Director
would spend at least 80% of his time on the project, and that
any replacement for the Project Director would be subject to
Bank approval (para 4.02);
(c) the consultants to be contracted by the Project Unit would
be employed by November 1, 1978 under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.03);
(d) the cooperation agreement between the Project Unit and URH would
be finalized by October 1, 1978, and the agreement between the
Project Unit and INA by December 1, 1978 (para 4.09);



- 43 -
(e) BANAFON, by March 1, 1979, would carry out a detaíled arrears
analysis by category of sub-borrower in the project area and
make adequate provision for write-off and rescheduling of
existing debts as well as for intensification of credit super-
vision and collection (para 4.10);
(f) the Govern¡nent would keep the Bank informed on the progress
of the proposed reorganization of BANAFOM and give the Bank
sufficient opportunity to comment on final proposals for
such reorganization (para 4.10);
(g) MNR would present a research proposal for the Catacamas
Experiment Station to the Bank for comments and employ an
agronomist and two agricultural engineers, both by January 1,
1979 (para 4.11);
(h) the Government would train machinery pool workshop staff and
store sufficient spare parts, and that MNR would keep separate
accounts for the machinery pool, which, inter alia, monitor
costs and revenues of machinery and equipment, and that it
would maintain tariffs at sufficient levels to recover at
least the variable costs of operation and the capital cost
of equipment, taking into account the existing market rates
(para 4.11);
(í)  the Governnent, by December 1, 1978, would submit a proposal
identifying about 35 km of roads that would be included in the
project to the Bank for comments; that project area roads
would be maintained by SECOPT's Directorate General for
Righway Maintenance; and that maintenance equipment financed
under the project would be utilized only for maintenance of
project area roads (para 4.12);
(J) the URH would complete rehabilitation of the La Puzunca
main irrigation scheme in the project area by April 1, 1979
(para 4.13);
(k)  the Project Unit would provide subloans to project benefi-
cíaries according to the lending procedures and the terms
and conditions listed in Schedule A (para 4.16);
(1) the Government would grant cotton growing permits to small
farmers with less than 10 ha in the project area provided
there is an effective pest control program, and would
prepare a study on improvement in cotton pest control and
implement a program for the application of such control
measures (para 4.17);
(m) no further USAID agricultural credit funds or funds under
any other Government financial assistance project would be
committed in the project area (para 4.18);



- 44 -
(n)  the consultants and the terms of reference for the
various studies to be undertaken in preparing the Aguan
regional development plan would be satisfactory to
the Bank (para 4.19);
(o)  MNR, BCH and the participating institutions would maintain
separate project accounts which would also be audited
annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank,
according to procedures acceptable to the Bank; and audited
reports would be forwarded to the Bank within four months of
the close of each fiscal year (para 4.20); and
(p)  the Monitoring and Evaluation Section would be established
by January 1, 1979, that quarterly progress reports would
be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of each
quarter, and that a project completion report would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after project
completion (para 4.22).
9.02      Conditíons of effectiveness would be that: (a) the Project Unit had
been established and a sub-director for the Project Unit and also for DARNO
had been appointed (para 4.02); (b) the Government had transferred four
extension agents from MNR and three credit agents from BANAFOM to the Project
Unit to ensure sufficient technical staff support during the initial project
period (para 4.04); and (c) the Government had established a revolving fund
for project administration and set rules and guidelines for its operation
(para 4.07).
9.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:  (a) under the credit component,
that a subsidiary agreement between the borrower and BANAFOM and an operational
agreement between MNR and BANAFOM, satisfactory to the Bank, had been signed;
(b) under the road component, that an operational agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, had been signed by MNR and SECOPT; (c) under the machinery service
and research program, that MNR would provide operational programs acceptable
to the Bank (para 4.09); and (d) under the technical assistance component,
that a project agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, had been signed by the
Government and UNDP for the execution of the Aguan Valley study (para 4.19).
9.04      With the assurances obtained, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$10.5 million at standard terms for Honduras.
May 5, 1978



- 45 -
SCHEDULE A
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
1.        The Project Unit through its Technical Department would deliver
credit and technical assistance to small farmers and farmer groups on terms
and conditions compatible with the needs of agricultural production when
technical assistance reasonably guarantees good cropping and financial
success.
2.        The system also aims at assisting farmer groups or individuals
that are presently in debt to continue to be eligible for credit. To do
this, BANAFOM would consider writing off or rescheduling existing debts,
as well as intensifying credit supervision and collections.
3.        About 1,200 independent small farmers and about 70 farmer groups
would participate under the project. Information on the phasing of the
lending program and lending amount is shown in Table 1.
Credit Committee
4.        A Credit Committee would be established at the Project Unit levil to
consider and approve project subloans. The Committee would be composed of:
(a) the Project Director, as chairman, and the Project Unit Deputy Director' as
his alternate; (b) the Chief of the BANAFOM Juticalpa office and the Chief
Credit Agent of the BANAFOM Juticalpa office as his alternate; and (c) the INA
Regional Representative and the Regional Credit Officer of INA as his alternate.
5.        The Comnittee would meet at least once a week and consider loan
applications, extensions of maturity, renewals or other credit matters
concerning small farmers and/or farmer groups within the regular jurisdic-
tion of BANAFOM's regional offices (Juticalpa and Catacamas).
6.        Credit Promotion.  An active credit promotion program would be
carried out by the Project Unit. This program would be coordinated to the
extent possible with the other public institutions working in the area,
such as INA, DARNO, the Instituto de Formacion Profesional (INFOP) and the
Federacion Hondurena de Desarrollo (FUNHDESA). The local radio stations
would broadcast information on the availability of credit and procedures
under the project (such as places for application presentation, eligible
beneficiaries and credit objectives). Also, visual aids would be posted
at farmers' meeting places such as schools, stores and communal centers,
and lectures would be given to farmers and farmer groups on credit and
technical assistance by the field agents. Programs would include a very
simple description of the new credit delivery system under which small-
holders and farmer groups would benefit by receiving technical and credit



- 46 -
SCHEDULE A
assistance. Although not directly related to the credit aspects, the
promotion program would also focus on technical matters such as crop pattern
modifications in favor of new and better yielding crops or adoption of new
agricultural techniques such as proper use of fertilizers, improved seeds,
pesticides, farm machinery, irrigation and other farm inputs required to
increase productivity. Agents would seek out potential credit beneficiaries
in the fields in addition to receiving requests from independent farmers
and farmer groups.
7.        Preparation of Loan Applications and Farm Plans.  Whenever a farmer
or farmer group is interested in credit application, the case would be turned
over to a field agent for further handling and processing. Field agents would
visit farms and prepare farm plans with the assistance of the applicants.
When previous indebtedness impairs payment of subloans, the reasons for such
indebtedness would be considered, and, if it can be justified, a comprehensive
rescheduling of payment of the remaining debt would be proposed to the respon-
sible lender within the financing plan of the subloan to be granted by the
Project Unit. Additional supporting data or documents would be provided by
the applicant such as land title (if any), lease agreements, livestock brand
certificate, pro-forma invoices, legal status and representation (if any)
and/or number and names of members of farming groups. A comprehensive study,
including economic status, character of farmer, detailed farming plan with
proposed improvements and cropping pattern changes, timing of disbursement
of loan proceeds, type of disbursements (kind or cash), detail and appraisal
of guarantees, present farming, and family labor availability would be made
by field agents. The agent's report would also recommend types and extent
of credit needed and manner of subloan disbursement; estimated present and
future crop production; and comment on the experience, and reliability and
repayment capacity of the applicant.
Eligibility Criteria
8.        Smallholders.  In partial accord with the definition used by
BANAFOM in its normal credit activities, a small farmer, for project purposes,
would be considered to be an agricultural producer who:
(a) lives on the farming site or nearby and derives at least 75%
of income mainly from agricultural activities;
(b) has agricultural assets, which by Project Unit appraisal,
are valued at no more than L 60,000 (US$30,000). Farm
machinery would be included among these assets, but only
to the extent of the already paid portion of its value;
(c) has less than 20 ha of farming land, with or without
title, unless he is member of a farmer group; and



- 47 -
SCHEDULE A
(d) declares that he knows the conditions of the project
technical assistance and credit system and his willingness
to cooperate with the Project Unit in all aspects related
to the fulfillment and success of the proposed farm develop-
ment plan.
9.        Farmer Groups.  This category would include farmer groups of
different legal personalities: asentamientos, pre-cooperatives, cooperatives
and "empresas asociativas campesinas" (peasant association enterprises).
Asentamientos are farmer groups working on Government land under the guidance
and general supervision of INA, bUt without judicial status or land title.
The pre-cooperatives are in similar status (under INA or (DIFOCOP) Direccion
de Fomento de Cooperativas guidance) as an interim step to forming coopera-
tives. Finally, cooperatives and peasant association enterprises have full
legal status but generally no title to the farming land they work. All
these groups are likely to be project beneficiaries, providing that:
(a) no less than 80% of the members of the group are classified
as small farmers, according to the definition given above;
(b) no less than 60% of total production handled by the group
is normally produced by the communal group farming effort;
(c) all assets owned by the group are included as collateral
in the subloan application and other project subloans,
including chattle mortgage of crops in medium-term on-farm
investment subloans;
(d) INA's guarantees and joint and several cosignatures of all
group members are obtained as part of the subloan guarantee;
(e) legal status (if any) is in force and all other legal
requirements have been satisfactorily fulfilled; and
(f) applicant members jointly and severally declare that they
know the conditions of the project technical assistance
and credit system and their willingness to cooperate
wíth the Project Unit in all aspects related to the
fulfillment and success of the proposed farming plan.
Indebtedness Rescheduling
10.       Since some independent small farmers and farmer groups who are
already indebted and in default would wish to participate in the project,
BANAFOM would consider on a case-by-case basis, long-term rescheduling
of outstanding debts of small farmers and farmer groups who plan to
participate in the project. A comprehensive cash flow model would be
worked out to determine terms and conditions required to permit previous



-48-
SCHEDULE A
debts and annual subloans to be paid off as well as allow adequate funds to
cover the sub-borrower's living expenses. This financial analysis would
be submitted to BANAFOM for consideration of write-off or rescheduling
of overdue subloans.
Collateral
11.       According to Honduran Law (Article 37 of BANAFOM Organic Law), the
credit coverage of chattel mortgages is 80% while that for land mortgage
is 60% of appraisal value. Cosignment is restricted to only 25% of required
collateral and cannot be used in more than three-year term subloans.
12.       In view of the above, collateral for production credit would be
a chattel mortgage on the estimated crop value plus some additional guarantee
to cover the remaining uncovered portion (if any) of the granted subloan.
Crop pledging would cover 80% of appraisal value. If needed, additional
chattel mortgages on farm machinery, vehicles or livestock would be obtained
to secure the subloan. When the sub-borrower is a farmer group (such as
an asentamiento, cooperative, empress asociativa campesina, or pre-cooperative),
the joint and several cosignatures of all group members and INA's guarantee
would be required.
13.       On-farm investment subloans for small farmers would be guaranteed
by chattel mortgages on any suitable item which has been bought with the sub-
loan proceeds, computed as 80% of its acquisition value. In addition, chattel
mortgages on other sub-borrowers' assets, like machinery or livestock, or
mortgage of clear titled land, or cosignment by a well reputed person would
be sought to cover the remaining 20% of credit coverage. In case of farmer
groups, on-farm investment subloans would also have as collateral a chattel
mortgage on any suitable item bought with subloan proceeds or on any other
suitable sub-borrower assets such as machinery or livestock. However, since
many of the groups in the project area have no legal status, their land is
not registered, and they have only the right to cultivate, an INA guarantee
and the joint and several liability of each member of the group would also
be required as collateral.
Disbursement and Collection
14.       Approved subloans would be forwarded to the proper BANAFOM branch
office (Juticalpa or Catacamas) for disbursement.
15.       If a sub-borrower fails to meet credit requirements and the situa-
tion is not remedied within two weeks after notification by the field agent,
the Project Director would be notified. A warning letter or message
(considering that many sub-borrowers are illiterate) explaining the impor-
tance of maintaining a good credit rating for future operations and offering
possible solutions would then be delivered to the sub-borrower. The field
agent and sub-borrower would also discuss the problem and try to arrive at



- 49 -
SCHEDULE A
a mutually acceptable agreement, and DARNO, INA or any other regional instí-
tution involved would take parallel steps. If the sub-borrower does not
react in a month from the time the default was detected (including failure of
payments at maturity), the case would be referred to BANAFOM, with a request
to start legal collection procedures. In the case of farmer groups, which
would have INA's guarantee, BANAFOM/Project Unit would negotiate with INA
to obtain payment of overdues prior to initiating such action. Write-offs
for uncollectable subloans would disqualify delinquent sub-borrowers from
participating under future lending programs.
Credit and Technical Supervision
16.       After subloans have been granted to a farmer or farmer group,
field agents would visit the farming site at least once every other week
during major activity periods (land preparation, planting and cropping
seasons) and no less than once a month thereafter. Each sub-borrower would
be assigned to a specific agent. Use of subloan proceeds would be authorized
by the assigned agent, and the BANAFOM branch office would be notified to
make disbursement. A progress report would be prepared and submitted to
the Project Director after each field visit, outlining progress, problems
and recommendations.
Legal Matters
17.       Under particular circumstances, such as when a land mortgage is
pledged as collateral, or when legal collection procedures must be invoked
against delinquent sub-borrowers, BANAFOM's Executive Collection Committee
and Legal Division would intervene as part of the lending operation.
Subloans - Terms
18.       (a) Subloans to independent small farmers and farmer groups would
carry an interest rate of 11% on the outstanding subloan balances; and if
necessary, interest would be capitalized during grace period;
(b) Cash contributions by sub-borrowers would be equivalent
to 5% of the total investment cost; and
(c) Maturities and grace periods would not exceed the following:
Type of Development                        Maturity         Grace Period
__----- Years -----------
On-farm investment                           16                  3
Production credit                             1



- 50 -
SCHEDULE A
Government Lending
(a)  Interest rate to BANAFOM would be 9%.
(b)  BANAFOM would be reimbursed for 100% of disbursements
on subloans.
(c)  BANAFOM would make payments of both interest and principal
to the Central Bank as they are received from sub-borrowers.
(d)  Government would take the financial risk on the loan portfolio.
(e) For its services, BANAFOM would receive a margin of 2% on
outstanding subloan balances.
March 23, 1978



SCHEDULE A
-  51  -                      Table 1
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of the Lending Program
Total Amount
-----------Number of Subloans------------   of Lending
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Total    (L '000)
Model 1 (10-ha, independent
farmer)                        200       300       300       400      1,200      5,445
Model 2 (75-ha, rainfed
group farmers)                   6        12        16        20         54      2,952
Model 3 (75-ha, irrigated
group farmers)                   4         6         6        -          16      3,989
Tractors (20) 1/                     -         -        -                   -         460
Total                   210       318      322       420      1,270    12,846
1/ Tractors would be phased as follows: 8 in year 1, 6 in year 2 and
6 in year 3.
February 27, 1978



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Introduction
1.        Banking System.  The banking system in Honduras consists of the
Banco Central de Honduras, (BCH) established in 1950 as the Central Bank of
the country, 12 private commercial banks, six savings and loan associations
and four development banks including the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BANAFOM)
and a regional bank, the Banco Centro Americano (BC). At the end of 1975,
the commercial banks had 165 offices, loan and savings associations one each
and development banks 31. The first two accounted for 96% (L 393.7 million)
of the deposits mobilized (L 410.7 million) and 80% of the loans and invest-
ments made by the banking system (L 777.9 million), excluding the Central Bank
(see Table 1).
2.        BCH determines the country's credit policy and regulates the
credit flow to various economic sectors, mainly through discount of bills,
grant of special credit lines, fixation of interest rates for deposits and
advances, stipulation of minimum liquidity requirements and selective credit
control measures. The present discounting rate for production activities
is 5%. A higher rate of 7% is charged on marketing credit for traditional
agricultural products (cotton, tobacco, timber, meat etc.) and 6% for coffee.
The financial assistance is provided for a maximum period of 12 months but
BANAFOM is permitted to use the funds both for short and medium and long-term
purposes. The Central Bank's total assistance to the banking system in 1976
amounted to L 120 million, of which about L 52 million (43.3%) were provided
to BANAFOM for financing the agricultural sector including livestock. In
pursuance of the banking laws, BCH also exercises supervision over the working
of the banking institutions. The banks are required to submit to the Super-
intendency of Banks, a department of BCH, a financial statement every month
and a daily liquidity statement once in every ten days. The Central Bank is
empowered to levy penalty in case of non-maintenance of the minimum liquid
assets and move for judicial liquidation if such default continues for more
than four months. Further, the above Superintendency is responsible for
carrying out annual audit of the accounts of banks and to make periodical
surprise inspections.
3.        Institutional Credit for Agriculture.  The banking system and, to
a limited extent, cooperatives and certain private agencies provide credit
to the agricultural sector. 1/ The agricultural loans accounted for nearly
one-third of the total loan portfolio of the banks during 1971-75. These
increased from L 117 million in December 1971 to L 196 million in July 1975,
the average annual growth rate being around 14% (see Table 2). About 57%
of the loans at July 1975 end were provided by the development banks, mainly
1/   Includes livestock.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
BANAFOM 1/ and the rest by the commercial banks and loan associations. The
agricultural loans formed over 80% of the total lendings of the former while
in the case of commercial banks and loan associations the percentage was
around 18%. Generally, the commercial banks provide loans to large and medium
farmers whereas BANAFOM covers the entire farming community. After the passing
of the agrarian reform laws in 1972, financing of the reform sector has become
the latter's special responsibility.
4.        No reliable information is available about the extent of benefit
which small farmers derive from institutional credit sources. It is believed
that about 80% of such farmers have no access to them. The small farmers
borrow money from money-lenders, shopkeepers etc., at a very high interest
rate, close to 40% counting nominal interest, higher prices for inputs
charged by the lenders and lower prices for outputs paid by them.
5.        Amongst the private agencies involved in agricultural finance, the
more important ones are Honduran Development Foundation (Fundacion Hondurena
de Desarollo - FUNHDESA), Federation of Savings and Loan Associations
(Federacion de Asociaciones de Ahorro y Credito de Honduras - FACACH) and
the Asociacion Nacional de Campesinos de Honduras (ANACH). They raise funds
from various sources including BANAFOM and provide loans through primary
cooperatives and farmers groups and associations. The total credit provided
by the cooperatives and the private agencies is relatively small, around
L 3-5 million.
Establishment and Functions
6.        BANAFOM, founded in 1950 with headquarters in Tegucigalpa, is the
largest development bank in the country. It is wholly state-owned. In
accordance with its charter, the bank provides production and development
assistance to both agriculture and industry. In addition, it extends commer-
cial loans, receives public and private deposits and performs certain non-
banking functions. The latter activities include: operating Government's
grain marketing and storage program 2/, supplying farm inputs and other
agricultural requisites, assisting in establishment of agro-industries and
participating in their management, and running technical assistance and
promotion programs for development of agriculture and industry. The bank's
major involvement so far has been in the agricultural sector and it may
remain so in the future too as a separate public sector institution, the
National Investment Corporation (CONADI), has been established by Government
in 1975 for promoting and financing large industries.
1/   Of the remaining three development banks, only BC gives some agricul-
tural loans.
2/   Price support program.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Organization and Management
7.        The management of BANAFOM is vested in a Board of Directors composed
of a President (appointed by the Chief of State), three Ministers (in charge
of Finance and Public Credit, Natural Resources and Communications and Public
Works), a representative each from the Central Bank and the private banks and
eight others. Two special Commissions, Credit and Operations Commission and
Development Commission have been formed by the Board to deal with important
operational matters relating to banking and non-banking activities of the bank.
8.        BANAFOM's day-to-day work is looked after by the President who is
its Chief Executive Officer. He is assisted by a Vice-President and eight
senior officers. Due to its relatively high salary scales which are substan-
tially higher than those of Government, the bank has been able to attract
generally well qualified staff. Further improvement in the scales are at
present under consideration by the management. Its professional staff include
agronomists, livestock specialists, public accountants, business managers and
accountants, of whom a large percentage are university graduates. Field credit
agents who number 114 are mostly graduates from local agricultural schools.
The total staff strength of the bank is around 1,000.
9.        The staff training and development arrangements are not adequate.
However, a few employees are periodically sent to foreign universitíes and
agricultural institutes for higher studies and some short seminars and
training courses (mostly for less than a week) in specific bank activities
are sometimes arranged by the management.
10.       An Organization Chart of BANAFOM is given in Chart 1.  It has two
major departments, Credit and Operations and Development, which are respon-
sible for its banking and non-banking (including promotional) activities
respectively. It has also a Technical Division that helps in policy decisions,
economic studies and limited research work.
Branches and Branch Control
11.       The bank has a network of 25 branches spread all over the country.
It has also storage facilities (41,000 tons) in 15 centers to implement the
price support program for basic grains. The project area is covered by
two branch offices at Juticalpa and Catacamas located at a distance of about
45 km from each other. The project needs would be adequately served if
some of the field staff involved in credit work are outposted at convenient
centers for closer supervision of project beneficiaries (see para 39).
12.       Both the project area branches have adequate personnel except for
field staff whose number may have to be increased. They also have storage
facilities (700 tons) which are presently inadequate, but which are to be
expanded to the adequate level of 4,300 mt in 1978.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
13.       There is no separate unit at head office for exercising control
over the various banking and non-banking activities at the branch level.
Each concerned Division within the two major Departments, like Credit, Storage,
Sales and so on, sends its supervisors to the branches periodically to check
only on the transactions relating to its work. Such visits are not coordi-
nated, are made at long intervals and the inspected office is not always
provided with a copy of the report on the visit. A separate Branch Division
would seem to be necessary at head office to ensure better control over the
working of the branches, including the commercial units of the Development
Department.
Accounts and Audit
14.       The Accounting Division at head office is responsible for maintain-
ing all accounting records and ensuring that they are kept up-to-date. The
accounting work has been partially computerized and largely centralized at
Tegucigalpa. Separate accounts are maintained for the activities of the
Credit and Operation and Development Departments.
15.       The accounts are subjected to both internal and external audit.
The Chief of the Internal Audit Division is appointed by the Board of
Directors. His audit staff is adequate. The external auditing is carried
out by the Superintendency of Banks, in accordance with the Honduran banking
laws. The audit arrangements are generally satisfactory.
Resources
16.       The resources of the bank, mainly consisting of capital, deposits
and borrowings from internal and external sources, have increased from L 128
million in 1972 to L 259 million in 1976. 1/ The average annual growth rate
was around 20%. The increase in resources was very largely due to higher
borrowings which rose from L 52 million to L 149 million during the above period.
17.       Capital.  Although the Government contributed L 42 million 2/ to
the bank's capital during 1972-76 and a further L 3.2 million received by way
of donation etc., was added to it, the net equity capital actually declined
from L 35 million at the close of the former year to L 33 million at 1976 end
(Table 4). This was due to adjustment of large annual operating losses and
provisions made for bad and doubtful assets (particularly in 1976) against
the capital.
1/   Balance Sheet totals, see Table 14.
2/ Including L 3.5 million from USAID funds.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
18.       Deposits.  BANAFOM's deposits increased from L 22 million in 1972
to L 39 million in 1976. These constituted only 15% of its total resources
at the end of the latter year. The bank is thus heavily dependent on outside
funds for its business. A larger deposit mobilization is necessary and seems
possible since commercial banks offering similar interest rates were able to
secure L 400 million or about 96% of the total deposits of the banking system
at 1975 end. The present interest rates on deposits (effective since September
1974) established by the Central Bank for all banking institutions are 6% on
current, 7% on savings and 7.5% to 9.5% on time deposits depending on period
and amount.
19.       Borrowings.  Out of the total borrowings at 1976 end, L 76 million
(51%) were for short-term and L 73 million (49%) were for medium- and long-
term. Table 5 shows details of outstanding borrowings from different sources,
purpose, period, interest rate etc. The major portion of the short-term
funds amounting to L 50 million were provided by the Central Bank of Honduras
at interest rates ranging from 1 to 7% for various agricultural programs. It
also include a loan of L 1 million given at 10% interest to improve the bank's
liquidity position. Out of the Central Bank borrowings a sum of L 19 million
represents debts which could not be repaid by BANAFOM within the original due
dates. The short-term borrowings in foreign currency intended for commercial
activities amounted to L 13 million at 1976 end. Such borrowings are made
within limits fixed by the Central Bank. The medium- and long-term borrowings
included L 30 million obtained from IDB for various agricultural credit
programs, L 17 million from USAID for grain purchase and other Development
Department activities at interest rates ranging from 1.5 to 4% and a sum of
L 20 million due to a construction company which is building a sugar factory
for the bank. Further, the bank has borrowed L 0.7 million from the Central
Bank, under the World Bank Livestock II Project.
20.       Out of the total borrowings amounting to L 149 million, a sum of
L 102 million (69%) was for the Credit and Operations Department and the
remaining for the Development Department.
21.       The average interest rate paid on deposits and borrowings during
1976 worked out to 5.2% approximately. 1/
Use of Resources
22.       About 11% of BANAFOM's resources at end-1976 was utilized for
investments in Government securities, shares, etc., and 47% in providing
loans and discounts. The cash and bank balances accounted for 7% and
fixed assets 6% of the funds.
1/   Information provided by BANAFOM, Accounts Division.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Investments
23.       The bank's total investments amounted to L 28 million, out of which
about L 24 million were invested in the capital of 14 enterprises (see Table
6). Three of the enterprises, including the one for supply of farm requisites,
are fully owned by BANAFOM and it holds majority shares in two other insti-
tutions. None of the above enterprises has so far paid any dividend or
interest on the amount invested. The bank is partly or fully involved in the
management of these organizations.
Loans and Discounts
24.       Loan Policy.  BANAFOM provides loans for agriculture 1/ and industry
and to a limited extent for commerce, housing and other purposes. Most of
the loans are intended for development and are for medium (18 months to
5 years) and long (more than 5 years) terms. These formed as much as 80%
of the bank's loan portfolio in 1976. Agriculture's share in outstanding
loans at year end increased from 81% in 1974 to 86% in 1976 (see Table 7).
Since the proposed project is concerned mainly with small farmer credit, the
latter part of this section will mostly deal with that aspect.
25.       Agricultural loans are given to individuals, groups of farmers and
their cooperatives and associations, as well as to agencies like FUNHDESA,
FACACH, etc., for on-lending to their members. The bank initiated in 1952
a supervised credit program for small farmers but could not make much head-
way. The program was revived in 1968 but did not gain momentum until 1970
when USAID provided a loan of US$4.5 million specifically for small farmers
(with landholding ranging from 2-15 manzanas 2/) who mainly produced basic
grains and/or maintained livestock. The bank was further drawn towards
small farmer financing when a new agrarian reform law (Decree No. 8) was
enacted in 1972 which led to the creation of a fairly large number of agrarian
reform settlements (asentamientos) recognized by INA. The Government took
the responsibility for arranging credit and technical assistance for the
settlements as their member "campesinos" were mostly landless and had little
or no resources of their own. The State provided a sum of L 4 million and
required BANAFOM to contribute a similar amount to an "Agrarian Fund" for
financing the reform beneficiaries. Assistance was also received from other
agencies like IDB, USAID, etc., for extending loans to this sector. In 1973
BANAFOM opened a "cooperative window" within its organization for lending to
cooperatives and farmer groups belonging to both reform and non-reform
sectors directly or through their federations for farm development and produc-
tion of basic grains and commercial crops.
1/   Includes livestock.
2/   1 manzana = 0.7 hectare.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
26.       Though no specific data is available regarding BANAFOM's actual
involvement in small farmer credit to date, an analysis of loans approved by
it during the last three years indicates that about 80% of loans were for
L 2,500 or less (see Table 8). These loans, however, accounted for less than
20% of the total loan amount approved.
27.       Lending Terms for Agricultural Loans.  Production loans are usually
allowed for periods up to 12 months but in special cases the period can be
extended up to 18 months. For crop production, loan amounts may cover the
entire cost of land preparation, inputs, hired labor, transport for marketing
and contingencies, as may be determined in farm plans. In the case of
asentamientos (land cultivated on a joint farming basis) the cost of labor
provided by the members is also financed. Short-term loans are secured by
charges on crops or livestock raised with bank finance and, in addition,
collaterals by way of chattel mortgage, land security or guarantee by a
solvent person are required. Such additional security should cover at least
20% of the loan amount, but this requirement is waived for old customers whose
earlier dealings with the bank were satisfactory. Since the asentamientos in
the project area have at present no legal status 1/, BANAFOM insists on
INA's guarantee and joint and several liability of members to secure loans to
them. In addition, each asentamiento gives an undertaking to sell its
crops (basic grains) to the bank at the established support price. The
repayment date for production loans for coffee, cotton and tobacco is June 30
and that for basic grains and other crops excluding bananas is April 30.
Banana and livestock loans normally run for 12 months.
28.       The major basic grains grown in the country as well as in the
Guayape Valley are corn and sorghum in the "Primera" season. These are
harvested between September and November and the farmers, particularly the
small cultivators, sell their crops mostly within a month or two. By the
time the loan repayment date (April 30) arrives, hardly any money is left
for repayment of loans. Reestablishment of repayment dates nearer to the
harvesting season of the major crops of the sub-borrowers needs consideration.
1/   Efforts are being made to convert them into cooperatives or empresas
associativas campesinas.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
29.       Medium- and long-term loans are mostly granted for land development
(destumping, shaping, etc.), purchase of machinery, fencing, irrigation and
livestock development. The long-term loans are normally limited to 10 years
but can go up to 25 years. Borrowers are required to contribute 20% of the
cost of development. Collateral requirements are more or less similar to
those for short-term loans, and items financed like machinery, livestock, etc.,
are accepted as security for 80% of loan amount. Titles to land and house
properties offered as collateral are examined by the bank's lawyer and the
properties are valued by its agents. Sixty percent of the property value so
determined is accepted as cover for loans. The borrower's contribution can be
reduced to 10% for small farmers financed under special programs (e.g., IDA-
assisted livestock loans) and completely waived in the case of asentamientos
when necessary.
30.       Interest on loans is generally charged at 11% which is the prevail-
ing commercial rate. The rate has been fixed by the Central Bank. Lower
interest at 9% is charged under special credit programs like Government
schemes for financing of small industries and the IDA-assisted livestock
project. The intermediary agencies like FACACH, FUNDHESA, etc., are provided
funds at 8% and they on-lend to their members at 10% to 11%. No penal
interest is charged on overdue loans but overdue interest is capitalized.
The discounting rate for commercial paper is 13.5%. The average interest rate
on loans in 1976 was about 9.7%. 1/
31.       Approval and Dísbursement of Agricultural Loans.  Applications for
loans, particularly for crop production, are invited by the bank between
January and April every year. An intending borrower is required to submit
his application in the prescribed form to the nearest branch office of the
bank. A credit agent visits the farm and prepares a farm plan 2/ with the
assistance of the applicant. He submits a visit report in which future
cropping pattern and development proposed, as well as cost thereof, are
detailed. In determining the production cost he is guided by the national
production cost tables circulated by Head Office. In view of dissimilar
agricultural conditions in different parts of the country, these could be
misleading and result in over or underfinancing. A more appropriate
course would be to work out production costs for dry and irrigated crops
separately for each distinct agricultural area in every Department by
suitably modifying the national figures, jointly by senior technical staff
of the bank and of the local office of the Ministry of Natural Resources.
These should be given for guidance to the credit agents after Head Office
approval. Besides the above information, the visit report contains the
agent's recommendations about the type and extent of credit needed, manner
of loan disbursement, estimate of crop production and his comments on the
experience, reliability and repayment capacity of the applicant. Immovable
property, if offered as security, is also inspected and valued. The
1/   Information provided by BANAFOM, Accounts Division.
2/   Sometimes extension agents of DARNO help in preparation of such plans.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
loan applications with the reports of the credit agents are put up to the
credit officer for financial scrutiny. The deserving cases are thereafter
submitted either to the Branch Committee (composed of Manager, Accountant
and Credit Officer) or forwarded to the Head Office for consideration,
depending on the loan amounts requested. The loan sanctioning powers at
different levels are as follows::
At Head Office                                 Loan amount (Lempiras)
Board of Directors                             Above        300,000
Credit Commission                               150,000  -  300,000
Executive Committee                             125,000  -  150,000
Credit Committee                                up to        125,000
At Branches
Branch Committee (San Pedro Sula)               up to        125,000
el     "(Choluteca)                             "  "        100,000
lo     "(Juticalpa and Catacamas)   "  "                     75,000
lo     "(Other branches)                       10,000   -   75,000
32.       Loan applications received at Head Office travel through three to
four divisions, including Legal, before they are put up to the sanctioning
authority and then again come back to the Legal Division which conveys the
decision of the authority to the concerned branches and returns the papers
along with draft documents to be executed by the borrowers. While loan
approval at branch level generally takes 3-4 weeks, the applications referred
to Head Office require 3-4 months for disposal, particularly when property
mortgages are involved.
33.       Loans are disbursed partly in kind and partly in cash.  Those for
agricultural inputs, wire required for fencing, machinery, etc., are generally
provided in kind. Production loans are provided in separate installments
for land preparation, cultivation and harvesting, the second and subsequent
installments being permitted only after confirmation from the field credit
agent that the earlier installment has been utilized.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
34.       Loan Operations.  Loans issued by BANAFOM during 1971 to 1975 are
classified according to purpose in Table 9.  These are summarized below:
Loans Issued
Purpose                     1971        1972        1973        1974       1975
Agriculture                 29.1        40.6        43.7        47.2       56.1
Industry                     5.7         4.4         5.5         4.8        4.7
Others                       3.8         4.2         9.8        10.0        6.3
Total             38.6       49.2        59.0        62.0        67.1
35.       Annual loan disbursements have gone up by about 74% since 1971.
While there have been some marginal changes in industrial and other loans, the
increase is almost wholly due to larger provision of agricultural loans which
have steadily risen. The share of agricultural loans in the total loans
disbursed annually improved from 75% in 1971 to about 84% in 1975. Of the
agricultural loans, the major increase has been in the loans for basic grains
which rose from L 4 million in 1971 to L 16 million in 1975. This resulted
from the recent Government policy, particularly after hurricane "Fifi" in
1974, for larger credit support to the small farmer (within and outside the
reform sector) to stimulate grain production, and increasing financial support
from international agencies like USAID for this purpose.
36.       The two project area branches, Juticalpa and Catacamas, disbursed
loans aggregating L 3.9 million during 1976. The major portion of this
amount (69%) was provided to small producers.
37.       BANAFOM has been selected as a participating bank in two IDA-assisted
projects namely, the Second Livestock Project and the Agricultural Credit
Project. Both projects contemplate financing, amongst others, small producers.
The Bank started providing finance under the former since 1975 but the dis-
bursements have been slow and reached about L 1 million at 1976 end. The
sub-borrowers are relatively large livestock farmers.
38.       Loan Supervision and Technical Assistance.  The bank has at present
114 field credit agents for supervision of agricultural loans. Their major
functions are evaluation of loan requests, helping farmers to draw up farm
plans, supervision over utilization of loans and ensuring timely recovery
of the bank's dues. Each agent is provided with a vehicle for his field
work.
39.       Juticalpa and Catacamas branches have together 13 credit agents.
During 1976 these branches approved about 2,100 agricultural loans and the
total number of borrowers at the end of the year (including old sub-borrowers)



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
was around 4,500. Each agent was thus responsible for evaluating about
160 loan applications and supervising 350 borrowers. The charge per agent
is high considering the present system of locating all agents at branch
headquarters, unsatisfactory road conditions and extensive branch areas.
For instance, the Juticalpa branch jurisdiction extends up to 150 km
towards North, 160 km towards South, 170 km towards North-east and 40 km
towards West. The credit agents are now almost entirely used for field
enquiry of loan requests and demand for release of loan installments and only
marginally for loan recovery work. Under this arrangement the more active
borrowers are visited frequently while the others who carry the larger
possibility of becoming defaulters are not supervised or inadequately super-
vised. There is no system of regular supervision of all borrowers. Though
theoretically each agent is allocated a specific area for loan supervision,
he does not have a list of all the borrowers in the area nor does he keep
any readily available information with him about the amount due (current and
overdue) from each sub-borrower, dates of earlier visit, crop condition etc.,
to plan future visits. The location of all agents at branch headquarters
also acts as a constraint to efficient supervision. Considerable time is
spent on journeys to and from the place of work and the agents hardly develop
that closeness with the borrowers which is essential for satisfactory super-
vision work. Outposting of credit agents at suitable centers should be
seriously considered by the bank and, if necessary, adequate financial incen-
tives should be provided for the purpose. The credit supervisor attached to
Juticalpa branch is in charge of supervision work of both the branches, but
his entire time is taken up in desk work including drawing up weekly visit
programs of the agents. He rarely visits the field to check on the work done
by the agents. The loan supervision system needs to be improved and control
tightened up. Out of 14 jeeps available in the two branches for supervision
work (including one for the credit supervisor), six are not in a satisfactory
working condition and require replacement.
40.       The small farmer programs financed by Government and international
agencies generally provide that technical assistance to the sub-borrowers
should be given by the Agricultural Extension Service of the Ministry of
Resources. Due mainly to staff and transport shortage, the service could not
provide such assistance effectively with the result that the extent of
cultivation envisaged and yields estimated in the farm plans did not generally
materialize. This affected the repayment capacity of the individual farmers
and asentamientos and has created a difficult overdues problem for the bank.
41.       Loan Collection.  Loans are repaid by farmers either in cash or by
delivery of crops (basic grains) to the bank. Data relating to the extent
of recovery made by the second method is not readily available but the
enquiries made in the project area indicate that it would have been higher if
more storage space was available and the bank could provide temporary facili-
ties for receipt of crops at places nearer to the production areas. For
sometime the credit agents were also utilized for cash recovery of dues from
the borrowers but this was given up due to risk involved in carrying cash.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
42.       Table 10 shows the bank's overdue loans position during the last
three years, 1974-76. The number of overdue loans has increased from about
9,900 to 24,700 during this period and overdue amounts from L 25.9 míllion
to L 44.1 million. In terms of percentage of overdue loans to total out-
standing loans at the end of the year, the rise has been from about    to
33.  If refinance and extensions granted during the year are taken into
account, the percentage of uncollected loans to outstanding loans would b-.
about 37 in 1974 and 45 in 1976.  The overdue elements was highest amongst
the loans given for crops. In 1974 the overdue loans in this subsector
formed about 25% of the outstanding loans for crops and 49% of the bank's
total overdue loans; these percentages increased to 42 and 71 respectively
in 1976 (see Table 11). Comparative year end data for revíew of overdues
position of agricultural loans in reform and non-reform sectors were not
available. However, certain preliminary information collected by the bank's
Technical Division reveals that the overdue level in the reform sector in
March 1975 was 26% of the outstanding loans as against 29% in the non-reform
sector, but in March 1976 the overdues of the former were around 40% while
those of the non-reform sector was 33%. If extended and refinanced loans
are included, the performance of the reform sector was worse in both the
periods (see Table 12).
43.       A period-wise classification of overdue loans shows that the percent-
age of loans overdue for more than one year to total which was around 30 in
1974 and 1975 increased to 41 in 1976.  No separate data was available about
loans overdue for more than three years which call for much closer attention
from the management.
44.       The loan collection performance of the two project area branches,
though unsatisfactory, was better than the national average. The percentage
of overdue, extended and refinanced loans to total outstanding loans at
year ends were as under:
1974          1975           1976
Juticalpa                    18.2          25.2           29.9
Catacamas                    11.8          16.6           26.9
45.       These two branches have financed 54 asentamientos in the Guayape
Valley. Total loans outstanding against those at 1976 end were about
L 1 million. Of this, almost L 400,000 (40%) represented overdue, extended
and refinanced loans. Thus, the loan repayment performance of the reform
sector has been unsatisfactory both in the project area and at the national
level.
46.       Within their loan sanctioning powers, the branch committees can
grant extensions or refínance (renew) uncollected debts.  Loans can be
extended up to one year at a time but not more than two times. Overdue



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
loans can be refinanced for a maximum period of three years subject to the
adequacy of collaterals. Head Office has not issued any guideline indicating
the circumstances under which loans can be extended or refinanced.
47.       Apart from irregular and inadequate rainfall and other natural
causes, several factors contributed to the rising overdues in agricultural
loans, particularly in the small farmer sector, during the last few years;
The more important ones were:
(i) finance was mostly provided for specific crops and did not take
into account overall credit requirements of the farmer;
(ii) increased credit flow to small farmers and asentamientos was not
backed up by the necessary technical assistance and managerial
support;
(iii) the loan supervision system in the bank was not adequately
tightened-up to meet the requirements of a large number of
scattered small farmer loans;
(iv) production loans for basic grains were in many instances disbursed
late in the season and the loan repayment date was fixed at a time
(April 30) when small farmers may least be expected to have any
cash with them; and
(v) arrangements for recovery of loans through the marketing and
storage activities of the bank were inadequate.
48.       In October 1976 the bank established an overdue committee at Head
Office to review difficult loan cases and decide whether borrowers in default
should be given further time for repayment, legal action should be taken,
or recommendation should be made to the Board of Directors to write off debts.
The branches have been advised to send to this committee monthly statements
of overdue loans.
Non-Banking Activities
49.       The bank's major non-banking activities, apart from those directly
related to its developmental functions, are sale of inputs, marketing and
storage of basic grains (corn, rice, beans and sorghum) under the Government's
price stabilization program and supply of consumer articles. The Input
Sales Section supplies various agricultural requisites including fertilizers,
plant protection chemicals, implements, veterinary medicines, gunny bags
and barbed wire to all farmers, particularly to those receiving credit from
BANAFOM. The Cereals Division is responsible for the grain buying, storage
and sales programs, as established by the Basic Grains Commission. The
Commission which is composed of the President of BANAFOM, the Minister of



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Economy, the Minister of Natural Resources and two representatives of the
private sector, directs the price stabilization program. It sets the grain
buying and selling price for the bank and regulates the import and export of
basic grains. The bank's present storage capacity (silos and warehouses) for
handling grains is about 45,000 tons. The consumer stores activities are
undertaken by a wholly bank-owned enterprise Suministradora de Productos
(BANASUPRO), established in 1974. Its management is vested in a Government
Commission which includes a bank representative.
50.       During 1976, the bank sold inputs of the value of L 3.4 million and
basic grains of the value of L 13.4 million.
Financial Position
51.       The operation of the bank during each of the last five years resulted
in losses which increased from L 2.6 million in 1972 to L 23.4 million in 1976
(see Table 13). While the gross income rose from L 7 million to L 13 million
during this period, the expenditure shot up from L 9 miliíon to L 27 million 1/.
A large part of the increase in expenditure was due to higher provisions made
for bad and doubtful debts and assets, particularly in 1975 and 1976. On an
average, the provisions accounted for about 24% of the annual expenditure
indicating an unsatisfactory quality of the bank's operations. The staff
salaries and other benefits absorbed 40-50% of the gross income during the
last five years and the share of the operational expenses steadily rose
from 12% in 1972 to 23% in 1976.
52.       The major portion of the annual loss in each year was due to the
activities of the Development Department. Out of the total loss of L 23.4 mil-
líon in 1976, a sum of L 12.7 million (54%) was due to the above Department.
The marketing and storage activities and BANASUPRO accounted for 62% (L 7.9 mil-
lion) and 9% (L 1.1 million) respectively of the Development Department's loss.
53.       The Credit and Operations Department is also incurring increasing
working loss. A rough calculation made on the basis of Juticalpa branch
figures shows that the average cost of servicing a loan is around L 100.
In 1976 the bank had an average interest margin (difference between
average lending and borrowing rates) of 4.5%. The minimum size of loan
necessary to reach a break even point is thus L 2,200. Since a substantial
proportion of the loans are for production purposes and would normally
1/ Excluding the income and expenditure of the bank's commercial enter-
prises like BANASUPRO, Sales Section, etc., the net loss of these was
added to the loss from the bank's other activities as break-up of
income and expenditure items was not available.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
remain outstanding for 8-10 months, the minimum loans size should be higher,
say around L 2,800. Nearly 80% of the loans approved by the bank in 1976
was for L 2,500 or less. Financing of individual small farmers, except in
areas where they are highly concentrated, is unlikely to be remunerative to
the bank. Several private and public organizations, including the Cooperative
Department (Ministry of Economy) are trying to organize the small farmers into
suitable groups/cooperatives. AID has provided substantial assistance to the
Cooperative Department to organize training courses for the officers of the
pre-cooperatives and cooperatives to improve their management and book-
keeping. The bank, through its field staff, should actively assist the
Cooperative Department and other bodies in promoting farmer organizations
(particularly cooperatives) and in improving their management.
54.       Table 14 shows the consolidated balance sheets of BANAFOM for the
years 1972 to 1976 and Table 15 certain financial ratios. During 1974 and
1975 the bank had a tight liquidity position and it was unable to main-
tain the minimum liquid resources required under the Central Bank Laws
(Table 16). The position improved in 1976 after the bank took measures
to restrict its commitments and obtained a liquidity loan of L 1 million
from BCH. The bank's debt-equity ratio has increased from 1.39 in 1974 to
2.21 in 1976. The annual contribution to its equity by the Government (see
Table 4) has not been adequate. The overall financial position of the bank is
not satisfactory.
Conclusions and Proposed Role within the Project
55.       BANAFOM is the leading development bank in the country and provides
the major portion of the institutional finance for agriculture. Amongst the
financial institutions, it has by far the largest participation in small
farmer credit, both within and outside the reform sector. However, its
financial position, characterized by continuing working losses, rising over-
dues and poor solvency, is unsatisfactory and its administration is weak.
BANAFOM's working loss is largely due to its non-banking activities,
particularly the marketing and storage operations. Many of these are not
related to its developmental role and were passed on to the bank by the
Government as no other suitable institution was available in the country
to handle them. An USAID expert is presently looking into the question
of the bank's shedding some of these activities and the bank itself is
especially keen to give up the marketing and storage functions. Mean-
while USAID and IDB are actively involved in bringing about administrative
improvements in the bank. Its accounts have been partly computerized,
monitoring system improved and organizational reforms have been made or are
underway. At the time of the appraisal mission (October 1977) it was learned
that Government had accepted proposals to divest BANAFOM of its non-banking
activities and to convert it into an agricultural development bank. Marketing



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
functions would be assumed by a new Marketing Institute which would be
established and the equity investments in industrial enterprises which
BANAFOM currently holds would be transferred to CONADI, the National
Investment Corporation. While no firm timetable for reorganization had
been agreed, officials indicated that changes would be initiated in early
1978.
56.       Given BANAFOM's current weaknesses and its impending reorganiza-
tion with USAID and IDB involvement, within the present Guayape Regional
Development Project BANAFOM's direct role would be that of a disbursement/
collecting agent. Iowever, within the project an effective credit and
technical assistance delivery system would be developed which could be
replicated in other areas by BANAFOM.  Additionally, some BANAFOM staff
would receive training from the Credit Expert which the project would
provide.
May 2, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balances of the Banking System as of December 31, 1975  /
Commercial Banks and                  Development
Savings and Loan Associations              Banks                Total
---------------------------------L million------------------------
Ass e ts
Cash in hand                               14.1                            1.5                  15.6
Deposits with Central Bank                 40.4                            5.7                  46.1
Loans and investments
Public sector                            72.2                            8.5                  80.7
Private sector                          550.2                          147.0                 697.2
Other assets                               11.3                          113.2                 124.5
Total                             688.2                          275.9                  964.1
Liabilities
Deposits
Current                                 144.3                            6.8                 151.1
Savings                                 126.6                            6.1                 132.7
Term                                     91.5                            3.2                  94.7
Others                                   31.3                            0.9                  32.2
Borrowings from Central Bank               68.6                           49.4                 118.0
External debts                             51.4                           61.9                 113.3
Other liabilities                          77.9                           45.2                 123.1
Capital and reserves                       96.6                          102.4                 199.0
Total                            688.2                          275.9                  964.1
0 M
1/ Excluding Banco Central de Honduras.
Source: Banco Central de Honduras, Department de Estudios Economicos.
March 24, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio of the Banking System, by Type of Institution and Sector,
End Year Position. 1971-75 1/
21
1971                     1972                       1973                     1974                     1975
% of                        % of                     % of                       % of                       % of
Amount    Sub-total      Amount      Sub-total      Amount    Sub-total       Amnount    Sub-total      Amount       Sub-total
1. Commercial Banks and Savinzs
and Loan Associations
Total Agriculture                       56,721         20.4       59,039          18.9       70,580        18.1        79,029       18.0         84,514         17.9
Crops                                    26,496                   23,451                     25,341                    29,975                    34,489
Livestock                                21,508                   23,884                     29,627                    34,305                     35,131
Others                                    8,717                    11,704                     15,612                    14,749                    14,894
Industry                                 75,701        27.2       72,323          23.2       89,751        23.1       105,882       24.0         112,573        23.8
Other purposes 3/                       146,020        52.4      180,933         57.9       228,993        58.8       255,279       58.0         274.997        58.3
Sub-total                        278,442       100.0       312,295        100.0       389,324       100.0       440,190      100.0        472,084       100.0
II. Development Banks
Total Agriculture                        60,110        78.7       70,151          80.2       80,181         79.9        97,162      81.4         111,211        83.4            a
Crops                                    32,807                   36,189                     39,351                    53,219                     64,657
Livestock                                26,147                    32,383                     39,008                    42,042                    44,347
Othera                                    1,156                     1,579                      1,822                     1,901                     2,207
Industry                                 11,250        14.7       12,001          13.7       13,039         13.0        13,827       11.6         13,871        10.4
Other purposes 3/                         4.997         6.6        5.294           6.1         7.162         7.1         8.368        7.0          8.344         6.2
Sub-total                         76,357       100.0        87,446        100.0       100,382       100.0       119,357      100.0        133,426        100.0
III. Entire Banking System
Total Agriculture                      116,831         32.9      129,190          32.3      149,761         30.6      176,191        31.5        195,725        32.3
Crops                                    59,303                   59,640                      64,692                    83,194                    99,146
Livestock                                47,655                    56,267                     68,635                    76,347                    79,478
Others                                    9,873                    13,283                     16,434                    16,650                    17,10:.
Industry                                 86,951        24.5        84,324         21.1       102,790        21.0       119,709       21.4        126,444        20.9
Other purposes 3/                       151,017        42.6       186,227         46.6       237.155        48.4       263,647       47.1        283,341        46.7
Total                            354,799       100.0       399,741        100.0       489,706       100.0       559,547      100.0        605,510        100.0
1/ Excludes loans by credit cooperatives and banana companies.
2/ Through July lst.
3/ Services, real  estate, commerce, consumption and other minor items.
Source: Agricultural/Rural Sector Survey, Honduras. IBRD, IDB and AID, Draft Report No. 971-40.
March 21, 1978



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
HONDURAS                             Table 3
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Results of Branches in 19761/
Net Loss
(L '000)
1.     Agency Lincoln                                   32.8
2.     Camasca                                          80.6
3.     Catacamas                                       294.5
4.     Choluteca                                        81.7
5.     Comayapna                                       309.1
6.     Danli                                           254.1
7.     El Paraíso                                      192.9
8.     El Progresso                                    236.4
9.     Gracias                                         125.0
10.     Juticalpa                                       571.6
11.     La Ceiba                                        293.5
12.     Marcala                                         332.6
13.     Minas de Oro                                      9.7
14.     Nacome                                          208.6
15.     Nueva Agencia San P. Sula                         7.6
16.     Ocotepegne                                      162.5
17.     Olanchito                                       397.3
18.     Pto. Cortéz                                     516.8
19.     Puerto Lempira                                   21.7
20.     S. Pedro Sula                                   629.5
21.     Sta. Bárbara                                    145.8
22.     Sta. Rosa de Copán                              403.2
23.     Tela                                            350.3
24.     Tocoa                                           974.3
25.     Yoro                                            139.8
1/ Branches of Credit and Operations Department.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounts Division
March 21, 1978



-  71  -                          ANNEX 1
Table 4
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Movement of Capital, 1972-76
(L '000)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Opening balance on
January 1                       33,840  35,164  39,188  41,129  43,706
Add:
Donations, etc.    1/                82     (19)       8   1,793   1,304
State constribution-             6,892   7,460   6,402  10,159  11,224
6,974   7,441   6,410  11,952  12,528
Less:
Transfers                        3,014-/                      72-/
Current year's loss              2,555   3,437   4,037  10,484  23,355
Previous years' adjustments         81      (20)    432  (1,181)    122
5,650   3,417   4,469   9,375  23,477
Closing balance on
December 31                     35,164  39,188  41,129  43,706  32,757
1/ Includes L 3.5 million contributed out of USAID assistance in 1972 and 1973.
2! Bad debts reserve.
3! Capitalization fund.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounts Division
March 21, 1978



-72  -
HONDURAS                                                 ANNEX 1
Table 5
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Particulare of Borrowings *s of December 31. 1976
(L '000)
Outstanding Balance
Credit/
Rate of                           Operationa    Development
Source                                  Purpose                               Interest (7.         Period         Department       Department        Total
Short-term BorrowinRs
Local Currency
Central Bank of Honduras                     Re-discounts                                    4          12 montha          19,450             -           19,450
Central Bank of Honduras                     Cotton                                          5          23 months           7,100             -            7,100
Central Bank of Honduras                     Liquidity                                     10            1 month            1,008             -            1,008
Central Bank of Honduras                     Fertilizare, Hurricane 'Fifi", etc.         2 - 6       3-19 mionths          13,975             -           13,974
Central Bank of Honduras                      Corn, rice, etc.                           1^- 7          12 months              -            8,696          8,696
Foreign Currency
Wells Fargo                                   Various                                 7.75 - 8.5        Various              4,635            -             4,635
Other banks                                  Various                                  6.2  - 8.8       Various               8.001            -            8.001
Sub-total                                                                                                       54,168          8,696          62,864
Add
Current position of long-term
borrowings                                                                                                               7.345          5.797          13.142
61,513        14,493           76,006
Mediía- and Long-term Borrowings
Local Currencv
Central Bank of Honduras (IDA)                 Livestock                                     5          Various                743            -               743
Central Bank of Honduras                       Office buildinge, etc.                  Hil - 3          24 years             2,807            -            2,807
Mortgage bonds                                 Various                                       7          10 years            4,365             -            4,365
General bonds                                  Various                                    8.5           10 years            2,000             -            2,000
Foreign Currency
IDB                                           Various                                1.5 - 4        16-40 years            29,719             -           29,719
USAID                                          Various                                 3 - 4        11-21 years                -          16,703          16,703
Banco Centroamericano                         Various                                  5 - 6.25    10-12 years                 382         1,289           1,671
Wells Fargo Bank                               Various                               Variable         2-9 years              5,959            -            5,959
M. Dedini Metalurgica                          Construction of sugar
factory                                   7           14 years               -          19,710           19,710
Bank of Nova Scotia                            Various                                      8            4 years             2,000            -            2.000
Sub-total                                                                                                      47,975         37,702          85,677
Leas
Current position                                                                                                            (7.345)       (5,797)        (13.142)
40,630        31,905           72,535
Total Borrowing                                                                                                102,143         46,398         148,541
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Technical Division.
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investments in Enterprisesas of December 31. 1976
(L '000)
Percentage           Rate of
of Total        Dividend/Interest
Year          Year of          Amount         Share           Received During
Name of the Enterprise                               Established    Investment        Invested       Capital          Last Five Years                           Remarks
Altos Hornos de Centroamerica, S.A. de C.V.                  1969           1969-76        162.5           20.0                None                The company has not started commercial operation.
Tbe bank ja represented on the Company's Board.
Fabrica Nacional de Alimentos Concentrados,
S.A. de C.V.                                               1954            1954            12.7            4.0                None               The enterprise is working at a loss.
Cooperativa Empleados BANAFOM                               1955            1955            10.0                             2% (Interest)
Compania Agricola Cafetalera, S.A.                          1976            1976             6.1           n.a.                None
Exportadora de Cafe Honduras, S.A.                          1958            1969           600.0           20.0            33% Average             The bank is represented on the Company's Board.
Azucarera Choluteca, S.A.                                    1967           1968           396.5            5.0             12% One year           In 1974-75 the company completed amortization
of accumulated loans.
Compania Pino y Celulosa de C.A.S.A.                         1969           1969 and       100.5           62.5                None                The majority of the Board's members are bank
1971                                                                   representatives.  The enterprise has not yet been
able to amortize expenses incurred on pulp and
paper project study.
Trefiladora de Centro America, S.A. de C.V.                 1969            1969           185.0           6.0               5% to 6%                                                                        (
Cartones Nacionales, S.A.                                   1971            1971           150.0          10.0              12% Average
Planta de Productos Lacteos Sula, S.A.                      1958            1957-58      1,612.5          79.0                 None                Since 1972 the company has been able to meet
barely its operational expenses. The majority
of the Board members are from the bank.
Servicios Madereros, S.A.                                   1975            1975             3.7          15.0                 None
Azucarera Cantarranas, S.A.                                  1975           1975-76    16,999.6           99.99                None                The company will commence commercial operation
from 1977 season. The bank has majority repre-
sentation on the Board.
Seccion de Ventas                                           1953             1953        1,226.0         100.0                 None                This section ls working at a loss.  The management
is entirely with the bank.
Suministradora de Productos (BANASUPRO)                      1974            1974        2,374.4         100.0                 None                The enterprise is operating at a loss.  It is
an autonomous entity administered by a Gavernment
Comiasion. The bank ais represented in the
comaission.
Total                                                        23,839.5
n.a. = not available.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Techrical Division.
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classifícation of Outstanding Loans
According to Purpose, 1974-76
(L '000)
1 9 7 4                 1 9 7 5                  1 9 7 6
Purpose                            Amount   % of Total    Amount   % of Total    Amount   % of Total
Agriculture:
Crops                            50,500      44.2        66,000       50.0        75,800       56.2
Livestock                        42,000       36.7       44,600       33.8        40,100       29.7
Sub-total                        92,500      80.9       110,600       83.8       115,900       85.9
Industry                           13,500       11.8       14,200       10.8        13,200        9.8
Commerce                            4,400        3.9         2,400       1.8         1,600        1.2
Others                              3.900        3.4        4,700        3.6         4,200        3.1
Total                             114,300     100.0       131,900      100.0       134,900      100.00
Source: Banco Nactional de Fomento, Accounts Division.
March 21, 1978
'-a



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classification of Approved Loans According to Size, 1974-76
(L '000)
1974                                                1975                                                  1976
Loan Sizes          Loan                                                 Loan                                                 Loan
(in L)          Number    % of Total    Amount    % of Total          Number    % of Total    Amount    % of Total    Number    % of Total    Amount    % of Total
1  to       500      6,142           31.5        3,100         3.8           -            -              -           -           5,662         34.3         1,300         1.8
501  to      1,000      5,368          27.5        4,100         5.0            -            -             -           -           3,791         23.0         3,000          4.3
1,001  to      2,500      4,123          21.2        6,800         8.4         23,621 1/   82.5           17,381 1/    17.4          3,587         21.7         5,900          8.4
2,501  to      5,000      1,911           9.8        6,700         8.3           2,326        8.1          8,465         8.5          1,650        10.0         6,000          8.5
5,001  to    10,000         904           4.6        6,900          8.5          1,337        4.7         10,006        10.0            950         5.8         7,300         10.4
10,001  to    50,000         852           4.4       17,600        21.7           1,060        3.7         23,817        23.9            706         4.3        15,100         21.4
50,001  to   100,000         117           0.6        8,100        10.0             174        0.6         12,202        12.2            104         0.6          7,400        10.5       .
100,001  to   500,000          63           0.3       12,100        14.9              98        0.4         19,979        20.1             41         0.2          6,800         9.7       '
500,001  to 1,000,000           7)          0.1        4,700          5.8              9         -           5,861          5.9             6)          -          3,600         5.1
1,000,001 and above               4)            -       11.100         13.6              1         -           1.900          2.0             3)        0.1         14.000        19.9
Total              19,491          100.0       81,200       100.0         28,626      100.0          99,611       100.0        16,500        100.0        70,400        100.0
1/ Includes loans up to L 2,500.                                                                                                                                                     m
Source:  Banco de Fomento, Technical Division.
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classification of Loans Issued According to Purpose, 1971-75 1/
(L '000)
1971                         1972                         1973                           1974                        1975
Amount      % of Total       Amount     % of Total        Amount       % of Total       Amount       % of Total      Amount        % of Total
Agriculture
Crops, etc.                       17,260          44.7         23,544         47.9          24,923           42.3         32,621           52.6         43,669          65.0
(Basic grains) 2/                 (4,001)        (10.4)        (5,458)       (11.1)         (4,698)          (8.0)        (7,975)         (12.9)       (16,237)        (24.2)
(Commercial crops, etc.)         (13,259)        (34.3)       (18,086)       (36.8)        (20,225)         (34.3)       (24,646)         (39.7)       (27,432)        (40.8)
Livestock                         11.841          30.6         17.060         34.7          18.748           31.8          14.547          23.5         12.445          18.5
Sub-total                  29,101          75.3         40,604         82.6          43,671           74.1         47,168          76.1          56,114          83.5
Industry                           5,745          14.9          4,365          8.9           5,465             9.3         4,771            7.7          4,721           7.0
Others                             3.800           9.8          4.234          8.5           9.823            16.6         10.074          16.2          6.322            9.5
Total                      38,646         100.0         49,203        100.Q          58,959          100.0         62,013         100.0          67,157         100.0
1/ Data for 1976 not available.
2/ Includes corn, rice and beans.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Technical Division.
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Position of Overdue, Extended and Refinanced Loans, 1974-76
(L '000)
1 9 7 4                   1 9 7 5                    1 9 7 6
No. of Loans   Amount    No. of Loans   Amount    No. of Loans   Amount
1.  Loans overdue up to one year         n.a.         18,347        n.a.         23,750        n.a.         26,240
2. Loans overdue for more than
one year                             n.a.          7,544        n.a.         10,352        n.a.         17,899
3.  Total overdue loans                 9,921         25,891       18,541        34,102       24,664        44,139
4.  Percentage of 2 to 3                               29.1                       30.4                       40.6       1
5.  Extension/refinance granted                                                                                         Z2
during the year                       632         16,220        1,164        17,683          923        16,829
6. Total of overdues, extended
and refinanced loans (3+5)         10,553         42,111       19,705        51,785       25,587        60,968
7. Outstanding loans at the
end of the year                    39,797        114,299       56,902       131,882       55,008       134,889
8.  Percentage of 3 to 7                24.9           22.7         32.6          25.8         44.8          32.7
9.  Percentage of 6 to 7                26.5           36.8         34.6          39.3         46.5          45.2
n.a. = not available
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounts Department.
o M
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classification of Overdue Loans According to Loan Purpose. 1974-76
(L '000)
1974                                                  1975                                                     1976
Outstanding                                             Outstanding                                              uust analng
Loan Purpose               Overdue   Loans           Loane         Percentage        Overdue   Loans         Loans           Percentage       Overdue  Loana          Loans         Percentage
Agriculture
Crops                    12,636    (48.8)         50,500             25.0          20,723    (60.8)        66,000             31.4          31,539   (71.5)         75,800            41.6
Livestock                 9,717    (37.5)         42,000             23.1           9.769    (28.6)        44,000             22.2           9,326   (21.1)         40.100            23.3
Sub-total              22,353    (86.3)         92,500                           30,492    (89.4)       110,600                           40,865   (92.6)        115,900
Industry                    2,698    (10.4)         13,500             20.0           2,707      (7.9)       14,200             19.1           2,754      (6.2)       13,200            20.9
Others                        840      (3.3)         8.300             10.1             903      (2.7)        7.100             12.7              520     (1.2)        5.800             9.0
Total                25,891   (100.0)         114,300                           34,102   (100.0)       131,900                           44,139  (100.0)        134,900
Note:  Figures in brackets represent percentage of total overdue loans for the year.
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounta Division.                                                                                                                                    mx
March 21, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overdue, Extended and Refinanced Loans of Reform and
Non-Reform Sectors at end-March 1976 and 19771/
(L '000)
March 31, 1976                   March 31, 1977
Ref.Sector   Non-Ref.Sector    Ref.Sector   Non-Ref.Sector
1.  Outstanding loans                           25,100          101,700           25,800          100,900
2.  Overdues                                     6,400           29,200           10,400           33,200
3.  Extension and refinance                      4,300           12,800            4,500           11,500
4.  Percentage of  2 to 1                        25.5             28.7             40.3             32.9
5.  Percentage of  (2+3) 1                       42.6             41.3             57.8             44.3
1/ 1977 data are preliminary.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Technical Division.
March 21, 1978
m M



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Losa Statements. 1972-76
(L '000)
1972                         1973                       1974                        1975                           1976
% of Total                  % of Total                 7. of Total                  % of Total                    7. of Total
Amount      Exp/Inc.        Amount      Exp/Inc.      Amount        Exp/Inc.       Amount       Exp/Inc.        Amount         Exp/Inc.
I. Expenditure
Interest on deposits and borrowings          3,043        34.0           3,913        36.9         5,156          42.4         6,570         34.5             6,778          24.8
Salaries and staff benefits                  3,130        35.0           3,587        33.8         3,862          31.7         4,941         25.9             6,266          22.9
Operational expenses                           830         9.3           1,219        11.5         1,624          13.3         2,103         11.0             2,924          10.7
Provisions                                   1.947        21.7           1.883        17.8         1.523          12.6         5.429         28.6            11.364          41.6
Total Expenditure                        8,950       100.0          10,602       100.0        12,165         100.0        19,043        100.0            27,332         100.0
II. Income
Interest on investment and loans             6,710        95.7           8,571        97.1         9,478          96.3        12,823         96.8            12,414          96.9
Commdssion and exchange                        186         2.6             192         2.2           306           3.1           360           2.7              341           2.7,
Other income                                   113         1.7              64         0.7            58           0.6             69          0.5               55           0.4
Total Income                            7,009       100.0           8,827       100.0         9,842         100.0        13,252         100.0           12,810         100.0
III. Loss (I-II)                                  1,941                       1,775                     2,323                        5,791                        14,522
Add
Loas of BANAFOM's enterprises 1/               614                        .66                      1.714                       4.693                          8.833
Total Loss                              2,555                       3,437                     4,037                      10,484                         23,355
Of which,
Credit ard Operations Division               1,141                       1,536                       341                       2,553                         10,614
Development Division                         1.414                       1.901                     3.696                        7.931                        12.741
Percentage of salaries and staff                                          40.6                      39.2                         37.3                          48.9
benefits to total income                      *                         4
Percentage of operational expenses            11.8                        13.8                      16.5                         15.9                          22.8
to total income                               '                         1
1/ Loss of "BANASUPRO" and other commercial activities carried out by the Development Department.
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounts Division.
March 21, 1978



- 81 -
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             ANNEX 1
Table 14
BANAFOM
Consolidated Balance Sheets, 1972-76
(As of December 31 of Each Year)
(L '000)
1972        1973          1974        1975         1976
ASSETS
Imaediate Assets
Cash                                    2,282        2,400        2,678       1,781        7,035
Balances with banks                     3,681        4,169        4,098       6,289       12,083
Investment in Government bonds            713          679          699         943        3,883
6,676       7,248        7,475        9,013       23,001
Other Investments (Net)                   6,352        5,806        7,240      10,067       23,764
Loans and Discounts (Net)
Short-term                             18,644       21,229      26,263       25,304       26,094
Medium- and long-term                  65,504       76,365       88,036     106,579      108,795
(Less provision)                       (4,282)      (3,875)     (3,476)      (5,538)    (13,198)
79,866      93,719      110,823      126,345      121,691
Fixed Assets (Net)
Land and buildings                        1/          1/         4,435        4,439        4,450
Others                                    1/          1/        11,554       11,851       11,610
10,667      16,204       15,989       16,290       16,060
Other Assets (Net)
Interest receivable                       1/          1/         3,808        7,955        9,155
Stock of grains, etc.                     1/          1/          4,862      22,926       15,278
Others                                    1i         1/          22,257      30,778       18,657
12,010       8,083       30,927       61,659       43,090
Contingent Asaets                        12,608       25,322       35,353      48,955       31,806
Total Assets                       128,179     156,382      207,807      272,329      259,412
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Immediate Liabilíties
Sight deposits                          8,701        9,427        9,387      14,221       15,859
Others                                    240          256           17          178         229
8,941       9,683        9,404       14,399       16,088
Short-term Borrowings
Central Bank of Honduras               15,444       21,931      30,477       47,071       50,430
Others                                  7,256        9,644       13,097      19,845       25,576
22,700      31,575       43,574       66,916       76,006
Term Deposits
Savings                                 4,541        5,806        5,866       5,990        6,680
Fixed                                   9,006        8,661        7,247       8,561       16,179
13,547      14,467       13,113       14,551       22,859
Medium- and long-term
borrowings                             28,923       28,646       57,252      74,515       72,535
Other liabilities                         6,296        7,501        7,982        9,287        7,361
Equity-capital                           35,164       39,188       41,129       43,706      32,757
Contingent liabilities                   12,608       25,322       35,353       48,955       31,806
Total Liabilities and Equity        128,179      156,382     207,807      272,329      259,412
1/ Break-up not available.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Accounts Department.
March 25, 1978



-  82  -
ANNEX 1
Table 15
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Ratios, 1974-76
(L million)
1974           1975         1976
1.  Liquidity                           0.80           0.63         1.43
Immediate assets                    7.50           9.00        23.00
Immediate liabilities               9.40          14.40        16.10
2.  Debt-Equity                         1.39           1.70         2.21
Medium- and long-term debts        57.30          74.50        72.50
Equity                             41.10          43.70        32.80
3.  Rotation of Grain Stock             0.92           0.85         0.72
Value of goods sold                 3.30          11.60        13.40
Average inventory 1/                3.60          13.60        18.70
1/ Average of opening and closing stocks.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento, Technical Division.
March 25, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Minimum Liquidity Reguirements, 1974-76-/
(L '000)
1974       1975       ---------------1 9 7 6-----------------
Dec. 31    Dec. 31      Mar. 31    June 30    Sept. 30    Dec. 31
Liquid Assets Maintained
Cash and bank balances                4,839       5,400         8,636     9,024       12,092       12,198
Bonds                                   663         918         1,443       943          943        3,861
Total                                 5,502       6,318        10,079     9,967       13,035       16,059
Minimum Liguid Assets Reguired
25% of sight, savings and fixed
deposits (local currency)             5,975       6,772         7,773     7,297        6,615        8,233
30% of sight and savings
deposit (US$)                            25         211           473       889        1,109        1,441
Total                                 6,000       6,983         8,246     8,186        7,724        9,674
Surplus (+)/deficit (-)
in liquidity                           -498        -665       +1,833    +1,781        +5,311       +6,385
1/  Minimum liquidity required in terms of Banking Establishments Law, 1955.
fD X
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento, Financial Transactions Division.
March 21, 1978



ChortANF    I
S   Irk  p¡1  1 '!; I    I f ~~~~~~~~~1.0  4>*
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4 -- Q  4 1 4
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Xi    X1  e:
0~~~~~~!                44 '  .0411 X1.0. 0
ji                              jiX 
<A   Wen.
. 8



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
Agricultural Credit
1.        The specialist should have a strong background in farm credit
(promotion, lending procedures, supervision, and credit institutional aspects)
for small farmers and farmer groups.  He should have at least five years'
experience, preferably in Latin America. He should be able to read, write,
and speak Spanish.  His principal duties would be to assist the Project Unit
in establishing a viable credit delivery system to facilitate the needs of
the small farmers and farmer groups, and in formulating and implementing a
training program for the field agents. The credit specialist would assist
in the following:
(a) developing a sound credit promotion program to ensure
increased and steady farmer participation;
(b)  outlining the design and implementation of lending pro-
cedures for the credit program (format for loan application
and farm plans, administrative set-up for processing and
approving subloan applications, eligibility criteria,
collaterals, and disbursements);
(c) formulating methodology and procedures for subloan
supervision and collection;
(d)  formulating a credit training program by March 1, 1979;
(e) training and assisting technicians in the promotion,
formation and operation of farmer groups;
(f) training technicians in promoting credit, preparing
subloan applications and farm plans, and supervising
credit; and
(g) training and assisting technicians to provide guidance
to farmer groups on decisions relating to on-farm
investment, improved technological packages, and
marketing.



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
Irrigation
2.        An irrigation specialist would provide technical advice and
assistance to the Project Unit. He should be a graduate in civil or agri-
cultural engineering and be specialized in gravity irrigation. He should
have at least five years' experience in design, construction and operation
of gravity irrigation systems at farm level and in training farmers in
system operation and water management. Part of his experience should be
in developing countries in tropical and sub-tropical areas and with projects
dealing with small farmers. He should be conversant in Spanish. He would
be responsible for the following activities under the project:
(a) performance of detailed surveys as required for design
and layout of the catchment structures, irrigation and
drainage canals, and ditches;
(b) preparation of final designs, specifications, cost
estimates and tender documents if necessary;
(c) performance of topographic surveys for land leveling,
as required, taking into account soils, terrain, method
of irrigation to be used and crops to be grown;
(d) determination of the appropriate scale and intensity of
field surveys for calculations of earth movíng quantities
and elevations for on-farm development and land leveling;
(e) organization of efficient equipment operations to ensure
that construction goals during each working (dry) season
can be met, and supervision of construction and land
leveling;
(f) formulation of training to farmers and Project Unit extension
agents in the field or in special courses and seminars on
suitable land leveling methods and equipment; irrigation
practices; and water use for various crops, soil conditions
and methods of irrigation by March 1, 1979;
(g) establishment of water management procedures, delivery
schedules and measurement standards; and
(h) preparation of progress reports, as required.



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Agrícultural Extension
3.        The specialist should have a background in agricultural science
with specialization in extension work and at least five years' practical
experience in crop production and in the implementation of improved farm-
ing systems for small farmers. Part of his experience should be in Latín
America and he should be able to read, write and speak Spanish. His
main responsibilities would be to assist the Project Unit in:
(a) organizing the extension service;
(b) developing methodology and programs to train extension
agents and project beneficiaries;
(c) assisting the extension staff in identifying the small
farmers' limitations in traditional production systems
and in analyzing the factors that can be modified or
adjusted to increase production and productivity;
(d) encouraging closer cooperation with the local agricultural
experiment station in order to keep the investigators
aware of the problems encountered at the field level and
to ensure effective incorporation of research findings
in farming practices;
(e) supervising the extension agents, providing technical
assistance to individual farmers and farmers' groups,
especially in the implementation of farm investment
plans; and
(f) assisting the extension staff in the selection and
implementation of demonstration plots.
Agriculture/Research
4.        The specialist should be a senior technician with a post-graduate
degree in agronomy and at least five years' experience in tropical agriculture
and research, part of which should be in Latin America. He should be able
to read, write and speak Spanish. His primary responsibility would be to
assist DARNO in preparing a sound research program based on low-cost
production systems and improved cropping patterns and farming practices in
the Guayape Valley. He would assist the Catacamas Experiment Station in
carrying out field investigations on existing production systems to identify
major structural deficiencies and to determine the potentials for introducing
improved technology. He would assist the local staff in conducting research



- 88 -
ANNEX 2
on existing crops and new crops that would be introduced to the small farmers
and farmer group. Also, he would assist the local research staff and exten-
sion agents in establishing field trials, which would be designed to transfer
technical information to project beneficiaries. Additionally, he would work
closely with the extension staff to evaluate the rate of adoption of the
improved or new technology and to advise on adjustments that may be needed.
March 23, 1978



- 89 -
ANNEX 3
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Development Models
1.        The proposed project would provide funds for on-farm investments
and agricultural production under rainfed and irrigated conditions. About
1,200 small independent farmers with landholdings of less than 20 ha and
about 70 farmer groups (agrarian reform settlements) would participate in
the project. The farm development program would be carried out within the
context of traditional pattern of farming systems and forms of cooperation
in the project area. The introduction of the improved cropping pattern
and the rate of cropping intensity would be gradual in order to allow
farmers to gain experience and to ensure farmer acceptance and participation.
As a first approximation, three farm models have been prepared to illustrate
the type of investments based on improved technology, and the expected
financial returns.
Model 1 (Independent Farmer - 10 ha)
2.        Model 1 corresponds to a small individual farm of 10 ha.  From the
current 7 ha of corn as a main season crop and 1 ha of a second season crop
(0.5 ha of corn and 0.5 of beans), the farmer would transfer to a cropping
pattern that would include corn, beans, soybeans, sorghum and cotton. The
introduction of soybeans and cotton would take place over a five-year period,
as shown in Table 1, with cropping intensity reaching 140% in year 5.
3.        The production costs are summarized in Tables 4 and 5.  With the
increase in cropping intensity and the level of inputs, production costs,
including labor, would increase from L 1,764 (US$882) to L 7,900 or US$3,950
(Table 4). Total labor requirements would increase from 399 man-days to 691
man-days per year (Table 3). Peak labor periods during weeding and harvest-
ing would require farmers to hire an additional labor input of 277 man-days
per year at full development (year 5).
4.        Average on-farm investment would consist of two portable sprayers,
three sets of farm tools and a small storage shed. At this investment level
(L 3,000 or US$1,500), the financial rate of return would be 43%. Total
annual net cash income per farmer would reach L 5,037 (US$2,519) by year 6,
compared to L 1,158 (US$579) without the project. Details of investment
costs, yields and production projections, and projected cash flow are
presented in Tables 2 through 6.



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Model 2 (Rainfed Group Farming - 75 ha)
5.        Model 2 illustrates rainfed group farming based on a communal
system. Development of the communal farm would include expansion of the
presently cultivated area of 43 ha of corn to 75 ha of diversified cropping
that would include corn, beans, soybeans, sorghum and cotton. As in
Model 1, the introduction of the new crops, as well as the proposed crop-
ping intensity, would be gradual in order to provide the farmers with the
necessary experience and reduce unwarranted risks (Table 1). The cropping
intensity would reach 140% at full development.
6.        The production costs are summarized in Tables 10 and 11.  Total
labor input would increase from 2,322 man-days to 4,545 man-days per year
at full development, and an equivalent of 20 man-days per year of hired
labor would be required during the cotton harvest.
7.        Average long-term investments per asentamiento would amount to
L 58,225 (US$29,113) of which 80% would be for the purchase of tractors
and equipment, 11% would be for storage facilities, and 9% for land clearing.
The financial rate of return would be over 33% (Table 13). Total annual net
cash income per farmer would reach L 1,918 (US$959) by full development.
Details of investment costs, yields and production projections, and cash
flow are presented in Tables 10,11 and 12.
Model 3 (Irrigated Farming Group - 75 ha)
8.        This model represents development under irrigated conditions on
a communal basis. Present cropped area, averaging 43 ha per farm would be
expanded and developed into about 71 irrigated ha. It is envisaged that
during the first year, all crops would be rainfed and that, after the
harvest of the main crops, civil works on-farm development and land level-
ing would be initiated in 35 ha which would be ready for irrigation in the
second year. The civil works on the other 36 ha would be carried out at
the end of the second year, so that by the third year the total available
land would be irrigated.
9.        The cropping pattern in the first year would include corn, beans,
sorghum, soybeans, and cotton. The first three would be completely phased
out after the second year in order to concentrate on the three high value
crops (soybeans, cotton, and rice). Cropping intensity would increase to
160% by year 5. As in Model 2, the introduction of the new crops such as
soybeans and the increase in cropping intensity would be gradual and ex-
tended over a five-year period.
10.       Average long-term investment would amount to L 210,255 (US$105,128),
of which 72% would be for the irrigation works and equipment; 22% for the
purchase of a tractor and farm machinery; and 6% for storage facilities and
land clearing.



- 91 -
ANNEX 3
11.       The financial rate of return would be about 26%.  Total annual net
cash income per farmer would reach L 3,923 (US$1,96?) at full development.
Details of investment costs, yields and production projections, and cash
flow are presented in Tables 16, 17 and 18.
12.       The project would yield substantíal benefits to the farmers
participating in the project. Income of beneficiaries from the enterprises
to be financed under the project would provide sufficient incentive to
project beneficiaries to participate in the investment program. A summary
of producer benefits as illustrated in the farm models follows:
Model 1               Model 2              Model 3
(Independent Farmer,  (Rainfed Farming    (Irrigated Farming
10 ha)                Group)               Group)
No. of families                 1                      22                    22
Investment cost per
family (US$)             1,500                    1,323                4,778
Net cash income
per family (US$)
Present                 579                      227                  227
Full development      2,519                      959                1,962
Financial rate
of return (%)               43                       33                    26
February 10, 1978



-  92  -                           ANNEX 3
Table 1
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Yearly Cropping Pattern
____________________Years _-___________
Model 1 (10 ha net)           1           2           3           4           5
Corn                         7.0         7.0         5.0         4.0         2.0
Beans                        0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         1.0
Soybeans                     1.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         4.0
Sorghum                      3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Cotton                        -           -          2.0         4.0         4.0
Total ha                11.5        12.5        13.0        13.5        14.0
Cropping Intensity, %       115          125         130         135         140
Model 2 (75 ha net)
Corn                        60          50          45          30          20
Beans                        3           5           5          10          10
Soybeans                     5          10          10          15          25
Sorghum                     10          15          15          15          20
Cotton                       -          15          20          30          30
Total ha                78          95          95         100         105
Cropping Intensity, %    115           127         127         133         140
Model 3 (71 ha net)
Corn                        40          26          -           -
Beans                       15          12          -           -            -
Soybeans                    10          10          25          30          30
Sorghum                     14           -          -           -
Cotton                      21          15          28          28          28
Rice                         -          40          56          56          56
Total ha               100         103         109         114         114
Cropping Intensity , %   141           145         153         160         160
February 2, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOEM~T PROJEiT
Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family F«m (10 ha)
Investment Costs
(L)
Units        Unit            1                      2                  3                    4                 Total      Local    Foreign         Foreign
Items                                per Farm       Cost      Unit       Cost       Unit      Cost      Unit     Cost       Unit      Cost           Cost       Cost       Exchange       Exchange
Machinery and equipment
Sprayer                                2           600        2        1,200       -         -         -        -          -          -            1,200        180      1,020             85
Small farm tools                       3 sets      100        3          300       -         -         -        -          -          -               300        45        255             85
Buildings
Storage shed                           1         1,5D0        1        1,500       -         -         -        -          -          -            1,500         -         -
Total                                                            3,000       -         -         -        -                    -             3,000     1,725  '   1,275              43.
February 8, 1978
exM



-  94  -                        ANNEX 3
Table 3
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Without     ------------      Years------------------___
Project       1        2         3        4       5      6-20
Labor Demand
Corn                             378        392      476       360      304     136      136
Beans                             21         27       27        27       27      53       53
Soybeans                          -         40        80        86       86     172      172
Sorghum                           -        108       114       114     114      114      114
Cotton                            -         -         -         98      204     212      216
Total Demand                 399       567       697       685     735      687      691
Unksilled                        399        556      685       673      722     674      678
Semi-skilled                      -          11       12        12       13      13       13
Labor Supply
Family labor 1/                  199        379      379       421      431     414      414
Off-farm labor
Unskilled                      200       177       306       252     291      260      264
Semi-skilled                    -         11        12        12      13       13       13
Total Supply                399       567       697       685     735      687      691
1/ For lack of reliable labor data for the Guayape Valley, national average labor
requirements per hectare have been used, which may result in an overestimate of
the use of hired labor on a small individual 10-ha farm. To a large extent,
small farmers trade work on each others farms. The family-hired labor breakdown
shown is therefore only indicative and the individual farmer may use a different
labor mix. The average family size is about six persons, equivalent to two working
adults per family, or about 50 man-days per month, assuming 25 working days per
month, for a yearly total of 600 man-days. Monthly labor demand at full development
is shown below. Peak labor periods during weeding and harvesting would require
the farmer to hire labor for about 277 man-davs per year at full development.
However, no labor constraints are expected, due to the considerable underemployment
in the area.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Total
Monthly labor
demand            72    100    -      -     -    24    76   124    78        50   127    40    691
Labor Supply                                       1
Family           50     50    -      -     -    24    50    50    50        50    50    40    414
Hired            22     50    -      -     -    -      26    74    28       -     77    -      277
Surplus family
labor           -      -      50    50    50   26    -       -     -      -      -      10    186
March 22, 1978



_ 95 -
HONDURAS
ANNEX 3
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT                                               Table 4
Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
Operating Costa
(L)
Without              ----------------------------- Years -------------------------------
Prolect              1              2             3              4              5             6-20
Inputs
Seed
Corn                                                          65                97            97             69             55             28             28
Beans                                                         12                16            16             16             16             32             32
Soybeans                                                     -                  86           172            172            172            343           343
Sorghum                                                      -                  63            63             63             63             63             63
Cotton                                                                -                      -               42             84             84             84
Sub-total                                                77               262            348            362           390            550            550
Fertilizers
Corn                                                         -                225            547            47i            432            217           217
Beans                                                        -                 -              14             14             14             28             28
Soybeans                                                     -                  60           120            120            120            239           239
Sorghum                                                      -                  90           203            248            248            248           248
Cotton                                                       -                 -             -              411            822            822            822
Sub-total                                               -                 375            884          1,264         1,636          1,554          1,554
Herbicides. Insecticides,
Fungicides
Corn                                                         -                  39            39             28             22             11             11
Beans                                                        -                  15            15             15             15             30             30
Soybeana                                                     -                  60           121            121            121            242            242
Sorghum                                                      -                   7              7             7              7              7              7
Cotton                                                       -                   -           _              800          1.600         1,600          1,600
Sub-total                                               -                 121            182            971         1,765          1,890          1,890
Labor
Family unskilled                                            597             1,137          1,137          1,263          1,293         1,242          1,242
Off-farm
Unskilled                                                 600               531            918            756            873           780            792
Semi-skilled                                              -                  66             72             72             78            78             78
Sub-total                                            1,197              1,734          2,127         2,091          2,244          2,100          2,112
Tractor & Machinery Hire
Corn                                                        315               420            420            300            240            120           120
Beans                                                        -                 -
Soybeans                                                     -                  84           168            168            168           336            336
Sorghum                                                      -                 180           180            180            180            180           180
Cotton                                                       -                 -             -              216            432           432            432
Sub-total                                              315                684            768           864          1,020          1,068         1,068
Threshing/Shelling Fee
Corn                                                        175               224            258            192            160            80             80
Beana                                                        -                   6              8             8              9             18            18
Soybeans                                                     -                  27            59             64            135           142            142
Sorghum                                                      -                 47             58             63             67            70             70
Sub-total                                               175               304            383           327            371           310            310
Sack Replacement
Corn                                                         -                  42            42             30             24            12             12
Cotton                                                       -                 -             -               20             40            40             40
Sub-total                                               -                  42             42             50            64             52             52
Sprayer Operation &
Maintenance
Fuel & oil                                                   -                156            172            252            348           352            352
Parts & repair                                              -                  12             12             12             12            12             12
Sub-total                                               -                 168            184           264            360            364           364
Total Costs                                           1,764             3,690         4,918          6,193          7,850         7,888          7,900
February 9, 1978



- 96 -
HONDURAS                                           AANNEX 3
Table 5
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVULOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 1 - Rainfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
Cropptng Pattern, Yields, Total Production, Production Value, Operating Costa
Without          ---------       -         Years  --------------------_
Unita      Project          1           2          3          4         5         6-20
Cropping Pattern
Corn   firstseaon)                                   ha             7           7          7          5          4         2          2
Corn  (second season)                                ha             *5          -          -          -          -                    -
Beans                                                 ha            *5         *5          5         .5          5          1          1
Soybeans                                              ha            -           1          2          2           2        4           4
Sorghum                                               ha            _           3          3          3           3         3          3
Cotton                                                ha            -           -          -          2           4         4          4
Crop Intensity                                         %           80         115        125        125        135       140        140
Yields
Corñ (first season)                               ton/ha        1.50         2.0        2.3        2.4         2.5       2.5        2.5
corn (second season)                              ton/hs        0.90           -          -           -          -         -          -
Beana                                             ton/ha        0.40          0.540      0.675      0.756      0.800    0.800       0.800
Soybeans                                           ton/ha         -           1.25       1.32       1.45       1.52      1.60       1.60
Sor ghum                                          ton/ha          -           1.4        1.75       1.90       2.00      2.10       2.10
Cotton                                             ton/ha         -             -          -        1.30       1.45      1.52       1.60
Total Production
Corn                                                 ton        10.95        14.0       16.1       12.0       10.0       5.0        5.0
Beana                                                ton         0.20         0.27       0.34       0.38       0.4       0.80       0.80
Soybeans                                             ton          -           1.25       2.64       2.90       3.04      6.40       6.40
Sorghum                                              ton          -           4.2        5.25       5.7        6.0       6.3        6.3
Cotton                                               ton          _            -          -         2.6        5.8       6.08       6.40
Production Value                        Farmgate Price
L per ton             ---------------------------------- L ---------------------------
Corn                                            255            2,792         3,570    4,106       3,060      2,550      1,275      1,275
Seana                                           498               100          134       169        189        199        398        398
Soybeans                                        419               -            524    1,106       1,215      1,274      2,682      2,682
Sorghum                                         200               -            840    1,050       1,140      1,200      1,260      1,260
Cotton                                          882               -            -         -        2.293      5,116      5 363      5,645
Total Value                                                 2,892         5,068    6,431       7,897     10,339     [0,978    11,260
Less on-farm consumption                                         152          152       152        152        152        152        152
Total Cash Sales                                            2,740        4,916    ó,279        7,745     10,187    10,826    11,108
Operating Costs
Inputs
Seeds                                                              77          262       348        362        390        550        550
Fertilizers                                                        -           375       884      1,264      1,636      1,554      1,554
Herbicides, fungicides, insecticides                               -           121       182        971      1,765      1,890      1,890
Sub-total                                                77          758    1,414       2,597      3,791      3,994      3,994
Labor
Family                                                             597       1,137    1,137       1,263      1,293       1,242      1,242
Off-farm (Barter                                                   300          298      495         414        475        429        435
(Paid                                                    300         299       495        414         476        429        435
Sub-total                                             1.197        1,734    2,127       2,091      2,244      2,100      2,112
Tractor and machinery hire                                         315         684        768        864     1,020       1,068      1,068
Threshíng/shelling fee                                             175         304       383        327        371        310         310
Sack replacement                                                   -            42        42         50          64         52         52
Sprayer operating and maintenance cost                             -           168       184        264        360         364        364
Total                                                        1,764       3,690    4,918        6,193      7,850      7,888      7,900
Less family and bartered labor 1/                                  897       1,435    1,632       1.677      1,768      1.671      1,677
Total Cash Coste                                               867       2,255    3,286       4,516       6,082      6,217      6,Z23
1/  Assumed that 50Z of value of off-farm labor paid in cash; 507. paid by barter.
February 9, 1978



HONDURAS
GI0AYAP£ REG10NAL DEVElLOPMENT PROJECT
F.- Model 1 - Rainfed Sinagl F.ilY F.m  (10 ha)
Ceh Flow *rd Faiy Inncoe Proj..tiof.l
(L)
Without  -------------- ------------------ -------'--Te-e--------------- Yer-   ---------------------------------------------------------------------Without-Teer-e
Proie.t        }         2         3         4          5          6            7         8          9          10         11          12         13         14          15         16       17-20
A. Caah Inflo.
Cash sales                                      2,740    4,916    6,279    7,745    10,187    10,826    11,108    11,108    11,108    11,108    11,108                11,108     11,108    11,108       11,108    11,108    11,108    11,108
Bo.rror te contribution
to irveeteentj/                                -         150       -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -
to operating espenses                          -         717    1.796    3,112        4.574      5,375       6,223      6,223      6,223      6,223      6,223       6,223      6,223      6,223      6,223       6,223      6,223      6,223
Develop.ent Ipan_                                 -       2,850                 -                    -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Seasonal loe-91                                   -      1.538    1.490    1.404         1.508        842       -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -
Total C..h Inflow                         2,740   10,171    9,565   12,261    16,269    17,043          17,331      17,331    17,331    17,331       17,331      17,331     17,331     17,331     17,331      17,331    17,331    17,331
8. Caeh0Outflow.                                              3,0
InveB C n0tf  cost  4                             -      3000         -         -         -          -           750                   -          -                      750        -          -          -           -           750
Ca-h operating eSpones                            867    2,255    3,286    4,516         6,082      6,217      6,223      6,223      6,223       6,223      6,223      6,223      6,223       6,223      6,223      6,223       6,223      6,223
Debt service
a)  Develop_nt loso principal               -         -         -         -        1,425      1,425        -          -          -          -          -     -                -          -           -          -
b)  Denelop_eot loso iotere_ t              -         313       313       313        313         157       -          -
o)  Seasonal loan principal                 -       1,538    1,490    1,404        j.,508        842
d)  Seaoon.l loso inter-et                  -         169       164       154        166          92
Total Caeh Ontflow                          867     7,275    5,253    6,387        9,494       8,733    6,973       6,223      6,223      6,223      6,223        6,973    6,223       6,223       6,223      6,223      6,973       6,223
Ca.h Balance                                    1.873    2,896    4,312    5,874         6,775      8,310   10,358      11,108    11,108       11,108    11,108       10,358   11,108    11,108    11,108         11,108    10,358        11,108
Le.. reserve for following
year!o expeoses                              867    1.796    3.112    4.574         5.375       6.223    6.223       6.223      6.223      6.223      6.223       6.223      6.223      6.223       6.223      6.223      6,223       6,223
Withdra-1íe                             1,006    1,100    1,200    1,300         1,400      2,087    4,135        4,885      4,885      4,885      4,885      4,135       4,885      4,885      4,885       4,885      4,135       4,885
C. Far  F.aily Denefito
Valne on-fara con.suption                         152       152       152       152        152        152       152         152        152        152        152         152        152        152         152        152        152         152
Withdrawala                                     1.006    1.100    1.200       1.300      1,400      2.087    4.135       4.885       4.885      4.885      4.885      4.135       4.885      4.885      4.885       4.885      4,135       4.885
Benefit p-r F..ily                      1,158    1,252    1,352    1,452         1,552      2,239    4,287        5,037      5,037      5,037      5,037      4,287       5,037      5,037       5,037      5,037      4,287       5,037
1/  5% of iovestot .oet.
2/  95% of investoent cost for 5 yenrs (inc1udi,g 3 years grece no princípal) at 11%. ---nu1 iotere-lt.
3/  Up to 100% of annual oporating co.t at 11% aonnal intoreet.
4/  Allowance for repl-cement of oprayers and tool  io year-  6, 11 and 16,
February 27, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 1 - Raínfed Single Family Farm (10 ha)
Fínancial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analvsis
(L)
Without   --------------------------------------------------------------------- Year  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Proiiect      1        2         3        4         5         6          7         8          9         10          11         12         13        14        15         16        17-20
Grosa Value of Production         2,892      5,068    6,431    7,897   10,339    10,978   11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260    11,260   11,260    11,260    11,260
Leas Investment Costa 1/            -        3,000      -         -         -         -         750        -          -         -          -                     -          -          -        -           750       -
Less Operating Costs              1,764     3.690    4,918    6,193    7,850        7,888    7,900       7,900     7,900      7,900      7.900     7.900      7.900      7.900      7.900    7,900       7.900      7,900
Annual Net Benefit                1,128    (1,622)   1,513    1,704    2,489        3,090    2,610       3,360      3,360     3,360      3,360      2,610      3,360      3,360      3,360    3,360       2,610     3,360
Incremental Annual Net Benefit    -        (2,750)      385       576    1,361      1,962    1,482       2,232     2,232      2,232      2,232      1,482      2,232      2,232      2,232    2,232      1,482      2,232    c
Fínancal Rate of Returwn  43%
Sensltivitv Analvais
Revenues decreased by 107.: Rate of return = 187.
Costa ínereased by 107.:      Rate of return = 237D
J Allowance for  replaement  of aprayera and toola in yeara 6, 11 and 16.
February 27, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
Investment Costs
(L)
Units     Unit          1             2                  Years              Total    Local    Foreign        Foreign
Per Farm   Cost    Unit  Cost   Unit Cost    Unit Cost    Unit Cost   Cost             Cost      Exchange    Exchange
Land Clearing                15 ha       355   15    5,325   -        -        _    _        _          5,325        799      4,526          85
Buíldings
Storage shed                  1        6,500    1    6,500   -        -                                  6 _  _    _    6,500    6,500  -     _
Machinery and Equipment
Small farm tools             10          100   10    1,000   -       -        -    -         _    -    1,000        150         850          85
Tractor                       1       23,000    1   23,000   -        -        -    -        -    -   23,000    3,450    19,550               85
Plow                          1        3,500    1,   3,500   -        -        -    -        -    -    3,500         525      2,975           85
Harrow                        1        3,800    1    3,800   -        -        -    -        -    -    3,800         570      3,230           85
Corn sheller                  1        3,100    1    3,100   -        -        -    -        -    -    3,100         465      2,635           85
Thresher                      1        8,200    1    8,200   -        -        -    -        -    -    8,200    1,230         6,970           85
Sprayer                       3          600    3    1,800   -        -        -    -        -    -    1,800         270      1,530           85
Wagon 6 tons                  1        2,000    1    2,000   -                 -         -   -    -    2,000         400      1,600           80    @
Total                                             58,225                                            58,225   14,359    43,866              75
February 6, 1978



-  100  -                        ANNEX 3
-  100  -               ~~~~Table 9
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 families)
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Without      -------------------------Years---------------------
Project       1          2          3         4         5        6-20
Labor Demand
Corn                       2,322      3,660      3,400      3,060    2,040    1,360    1,360
Beans                        -          129         255        255       510       510       510
Soybeans                     -          110        250         250      375       625       625
Sorghum                      -          340        570        570       570       760       760
Cotton                       -           -         570         800    1,260    1,290    1,290
Total Demand           2,322      4,239      5,045      4,935    4,755    4,545    4,545
Unskilled                  2,322      4,164      4,955      4,845    4,665    4,450    4,450
Semi-skilled                 -            75         90         90        90        95        95
Labor Supply
Family labor 1/
Unskilled                2,322      4,164      4,955      4,845    4,665    4,430    4,430
Semi-skilled               -           75         90         90        90        95        95
Hired: unskilled           -           -          -          -         -          20        20
Total Supply          2,322      4,239      5,045      4,935    4,755    4,545    4,545
1/  Asentamientos on average are composed of about 22 farmer families, with about
two adult equivalents per family; therefore, the total family labor capacity
available amounts to 1,100 man-days per month. Total labor would increase
from 2,322 to 4,545 man-days per year, but the proposed cropping pattern would
foster a higher and more even use of family labor throughout the year. As
shown below, the equivalent of 20 man-days per year of hired labor would be
required at full development during cotton harvest.
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
Monthly labor
demand           60  1,120       -      -       -      -    545  525   540    435   790   290  4,545
Labor Supply
Family           60  1,100       -      -       -    240   545  525   540    435   790   290  4,525
Hired            -       20      -      -       -      -     -    -       -      -      -      -       20
Surplus family
labor         1,040      -   1,100  1,100   1,100  860   555  575   560    665   310   810  8,675
March 22, 1978



- 101 -
HONDURAS
ANNEX 3
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               Table 10
Farm Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfed Group Farm (22 famílies)
operátinu Costs
(L)
Without      -------------------------------Years-------------------------
ProJect        1           2         3           4           5        6-20
Input s
Seed
CoSe                      397          831        693        624         416        277       277
Beans                      -            96        160         160        320        320       320
Soybeans                   -           429        858        858      1,287       2,145     2,145
Sorghum                    -           210        315        315         315        420       420
Cotton                     -            -         317        422         634        634       634
Sub-total             397        1,566      2,343      2,379      2,972       3,796     3,796
Fertilizers
Corn                       -         1,932      3,910      4,243      3,243       2,162     2,162
Jeans                                             138         13         26        1276       276
Soybeans                   -299                   59         590        d91       145       145
Sorghum                    -           299      1,014      1,242       1,242      1,656     1,656
Cotton                     -            -       3,081      4,108       6,162      6,162     6,162
Sub-total              -         2,530      8,741     10,329      11,820     11,751    11,751
Herbicides, Insecticides, Fungicides
-           337        281        252        168        112        112
Beans                     -            90        150        150         300        300       300
Soybeans                   -           302        604        604         906      1,510     1,510
Sorghum                    -            22         33          33         33         44        44
Cotton                     -            -       6,000       8,000     12,000     12,000    12,000
Sub-total              -           751      7,o68      9,039     13,407      13,966    13,966
Labor
Family
Unskilled             6,966       12,492      14,865     14,535     13,995     13,290    13,290
Semi-:kílled             -           450        540        54o         540        570       570
Hired: unskílled           -            -          -          -           -          60        60
Sub-total           6,966       12,942     15,405     15,075      14,535     13,920    13,920
Tractor Operation and Maintenance
cboernns  3,600      3,000      2,700      1,800      1,200      1,200
Soybeans                   -           360        720         720      1,080      1,800     1,800
Sorghum                    -           600        900         900        900      1,200     1,200
Cotton                     -            -       1,440      1,920       2,880      2,880     2,880
Sub-total              -         4,56o      6,060      6,240       6,660      7,080     7,080
Machinery Service Hire
Cori,                   2,838           -           -          -          -          -         -
Soybeans                   -           263        525         525        787      1,312     1,312
Cotton                     -            -       1,537       2,050      3,075      3,075     3,075
Sub-total           2,838          263      2,062      2,575       3,862      4,387     4,387
Sack Replacement
C&orn                      -            360        300        270        180        120        120
CotIon                     _            -         150        200         300        300       300
Sub-total              -           360        450         470        480        420       420
Sprayer Operation and Maintenance
Corn                       -           960        800        720         480        320       320
Beans                      -            24         40          40         80         80        80
Sorghum                    -            80        120         120        120        160       160
Repairs and parts          -            12         12          12         12         12        12
Sub-total              -         1,076        972         892        692        572       572
Total              10,201       24,048     43,101     46,999      54,428     55,892    55,892
February 9, 1978



- 102 -
HONDURAS
AHNNEX 3
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT                                             Table 11
Faro Model 2 - 75-ha Rainfad Group Farm (22 familia)
Cropping Pattero, Yelda., Total Production. Productioo Value. Operating Costs
Wíthout            ----------------------------    Yeara  ---------------------------------
Units             Project             1             2             3             4             5            6-20
Cropping Faltaera
Cora                                                           ha                 43               60            50            45            30            20            20
Be.so                                                          ha                  -                 3            5             5            10            10            10
Soybeans                                                       ha                 -                 5            10            10            15            25            25
Sorghum                                                        ha                  -                10           15            15            15            20            20
Cottoo                                                         ha                  -                -            15            20            30            30            30
Cropping Intensity                                        %                 100               104          127           127           133           140           140
filelds
Corn                                                        ton/ha                 1.5              2.0           2.3           2.4           2.5           2.5           2.5
Beans                                                       too/ha                 0.4               0.54         0.675         0.756         0.80          0.80          0.80
layboans                                                    ton/ha                 -                 1.32          1.45         1.52          1.6            1.6           1.6
Sorghum                                                     ton/ha                 -                1.4            1.75         1.9            2.0          2.1            2.1
Cotton                                                      ton/ha                 -                -             1,30          1.45          1.52          1.60          1.60
Total Production
Corn                                                          ton                 64.5            120.0         115.0         108.0          75.0          50.0          50.0
Beans                                                         ton                  -                 1.62          3.38         3.78          8.0           8.0            8.0
Soyb....                                                      ton                                   6,6          14.5          15.2          24.0          40.0          40.0
Sorghum                                                       ton                                  14.0          26,25         28.5          30.0          42.0          42.0
Cotton                                                        tao                 -                -             19.5          29.0          45.6          48.0          48.0
Famrgata Prico
Production Value
Cora                                                          255               16,447           30,600        29,325        27,540        19,125        12,750        12,750
Uosos                                                         498                 -                 807         1,683         1,882         3,984         3,984         3,984
Soybeans                                                      419                 _               2,765         6,075         6,369        10,056        16,760        16,760
Sorghum                                                       200                 -               2.800         5,250         5,700         6,000         8,400         8,400
Cotton                                                        882                 -                -           17.199        25,578        40.219        42.336        42.336
Total Valuo                                                                16,447           36,972        59,532        67,069        79,384        84,230        84,230
Lse. aa-farm conseuption                                                         3,368            3,368         3,368         3,368         3,368         3,368         3,368
Total cash nalca                                                                13,079           33,604        56,164        63,701        76,016        80,862        80,862
Operar iog Contn
Saputs
Soeds                                                                            397            1,566         2,343         2,379         2,972         3,796         3,796
Fertilizaer                                                                     -               2,530         8,741        10,329        11,820        11,751        11,751
Herbicidos, fungicidee, insecticidee                                            _                 751         7.068         9.039        13.407        13,966        13,966
Slb-total                                                                     397            4,847        18,152        21,747        28,199        29,513        29,513
Labor
Family                                                                         6,966           12,942        15,405        15,075        14,535        13,860        13,860
Hired                                                                           -                -             -             -             -               60            60
Sob-total                                                                   6,966           12,942        15,405        15,075        14,535        13,920        13,920
Tractor operation and maintenance                                                  -              4,560         6,060         6,240         6,660         7,080         7,080
Machinery seaice hire                                                            2,838              263         2,062         2,575         3,862         4,387         4,387
Sack replacee-nt                                                                   -                360           450           470           480           420           420
Sprayer operation and maintenance                                                  -               1.076          972           892           692           572           572
Total Opereting Coats                                                      10,201           24,048        43,101        46,999        54,428        55,892        35,892
Loes faíily labor                                                                6.966           12,942        15.405        15.075        14,535        13,860        13.860
Total Cash Coste                                                            3,235           11,106        27,696        31,924        39,893       42,032        42,032
February 9, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVdELOPEN« PROJECT
Faro Rodel 2 - 75-ha Rainied Group Faro (22 faMilias)
Cash Flow end FPanily In-ome Proeentions
(L)
without        ---------- --------------------__--------------_----------------------------------- Ye-rs- ---------------------------------_----------------------------------------_----------------------
ProJect           1          2           3          4           5          6           7          S           9          1o         11          12          13          14          13         16         17-20
ienb Inflase
CcFh sales                      13,079         33,604     56,164      63,701      76,016     80,862      80,862     80,862      80,862     80,862      80,862      80,862      -0,862     80,862      80,862      80,862     80,862      80,862
norrowerencontribotion
a) te inve-t- ent 1/            -             2,911 4/          -           -                -           -          -           -          -           -           -                      -           -           -           -          -
b) tr  oper-ting expenses       -               324 4/   5,352       7,607       9,150     15,084      24,792     42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      42,032     42,132      42,032      42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032
Uevelop-ent loan 2/               -            55,314       -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -
-eaooneí loa.  3/                 -            10 782     22,344      24,317     30,743      26.048      17.240                                                      -           -
Tot-l Csah  nflow          13,079        102,935     83,860      95,625    115,909    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894    122,894
Caeh outflow
Invest-ent costa 3/               -            58,225       -           -           -          -          1,400       -           -          -           -          1,400        -           -          -           -         1,400        -
Cash operating expencee          3,235         11,106     27,696      31,924      39,893     42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032
Debt cervino
a)  de-eelopm.nt toan
prnciípel                 -             3,000     10,000      14,104     14,104      14,106        -          -           -
b) develop-ent  aoan
internet                                6 6,084    5,755      4,655       3,103       1,552
c)  seso..al loan
principal                 -            10,782     22,344      24,317     30,743      26,948      17,240       -           _          _           _           _          _           _           -           _           _          -
d)  .casonal loan
interest                  -             1,186      2.458       2.675      3,382       2.964       1.896       -           -
Total Cash Outflow          3,235         90,387     88,253      77,675     91,275      S7,602      62,560     42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      43,432     42,032      42,032      42,032      42,032      43,432     42,032
Cash balance                     9,844         12,552     15,607      17,950      24,684     35,292      60,326     80,862      80,862      80,862     80,862       79,462     80,862      80,862     80,862      80,862      79,462      80,862
Le.a roceno forf-   lwe
yearerv -opnec                 3,235          5,352      7,607       9,150      15,084     24,792      42,032     42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      42,032      42,032     42,032      42,032      42,032      42,032     42,032
Withdr-wals                      6,609          7,200       8,000      8,800       9,600      10,500     18,294      38,830     38,830      38,830     38,830       37,430     38,830      38,830      38,830     38,830      37,430      38,830
FPnr F1,ily Ne- B.eelít
Va1oe on-faro  noncumption       3,368          3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368       3,368
Withd1raals                      6.609          7.200       8.000      8,800       9.600     10.500      18,294      38,830     38.830      38.830      38.830      37.430     38.830      38.830      38,830     38,830      37.430      38,830
Total                       9.977         10,568     11,368      12,168      12,968     13,868      21,662     42,198      42,198     42,198      42,198      40,798      42,198      42,198     42,198      42,198      40,798      42,198
ees.elit par family                454            480         517        553         589        630          984      1,918      1,918       1,918       1,918       1,854      1,918       1,918       1,918       1,918       1,854      1,918
1/  57. of investment coct  .
2/  95% of invostEent cort for 3 yTare at 11% interert payeble anually.                                                                                                                                                                      1!
3/  up te 100% of encal op-rating crsts at 11% annoally.
4/  Prom previoen  year'e recorve.
5/ Allosanre for replarement of eprayers and tools in yeurs 6, 11 end 16. Replcr-ent of other
=schinery sson..Lod la- in operating expenees.
February 27, 1978



-   104 -
01   Cd         e    0
O  O           R O C
101   Cd      e     
=                  u ¿     e 
I                 u 0   g   rde C
<0   0    e.
40~ ~     ~ U=                           N 
40~~~                          oq    e
Cd            Cd        U4 
C.  ó        I       Ng tu     -.                                     'O
ol C 1G, g N,    d  O 
*   ¡  rW        0    0    s     ~    ~     4           4>
*>+  Cd        -          -                            04
.0        Ú    -                          -3          O C,.
,,~         C#
ffi   ^    o                     e e         c; 0d.. 0.4
>4-e       O 
1> O         O u    44  4>      4t C4                  C d 
4>   4>   4>                        '0            00    C  dV
S    °4         ,7    1i;         °s  



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 familíes)
Investment Costs
----------Year-------------
Units   Unit           1                2         Total      Local    Foreign    Foreign
per Farm  Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost  Cost            Cost      Exchange   Exchange
Item
Land Clearing                   15       355      15      5,325                   5,325        799      4,526      85
Buildings
Storage Shed                   1    6,500        1     6,500         -          6,500      6,500        -        O
Machinery and Equipment
Small Tools                   10       100      10      1,000    -      -       1,000        150        850      85
Tractor                        1   23,000        1    23,000    -       -      23,000      3,450    19,550       85
Plow                            1    3,500       1      3,500    -      -       3,500        525      2,975      85
Harrow                          1    3,800       1      3,800    -      -       3,800        570       3,230     85
Corn Sheller                    1    3,100       1      3,100     -     -       3,100        465      2,635      85
Thresher                       1    8,200        1      8,200     -     -       8,200      1,230      6,970      85
Sprayer                        3       600       2      1,200      1     600    1,800        270      1,530      85
Wagon                           1    2,000       1                -     -       2,000        400      1,600      80
Sub-total                                      57,625            600   58,225    14,359    43,866         75
Irrigation System
Civil Works                    -      -          -      6,700          6,800   13,500    10,530       2,970      22
On-farm Development            -      -          -    21,100          21,300   42,400    40,280        2,120       5
Land Levelling                 -      -          -    23,100          23,100   46,200    20,790    25,410         55
Equipment (Pump)               -    38,700       -    38,700             -     38,700      4,257    34,443       89
Administration and             -       -          -     5,600           5,600   11,200    11,200         -         0
Supervision of Construction
Sub-total                                      95,1.200       56,800  152,000    87,057    64,943         43
Total                                         152,825         57,400  210,225  101,416   108,809          52
February 27, 1978



-  106  -                         ANNEX 3
Table 15
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
Estimated Labor Budget (Man-days per Year)
Without    --------------------Years--------------------
Project       1         2         3       4        5      6-20
Labor Demand
Corn                        2,322      2,440    1,768        -        -        -        -
Beans                         -           645      612       -        -        -        -
Soybeans                      -          220       250      625      750      750      750
Sorghum                       -          476       -         -        -        -        -
Cotton                        -          798       600   1,176   1,204   1,204   1,204
Rice                          -           -      1,500   2,100   2,296   2,296   2,296
Total Demand            2,322      4,579    4,730   3,901   4,250   4,250   4,250
Unskilled                   2,322      4,494    4,639   3,792   4,136   4,136   4,136
Semi-skilled                  -           85        91      109      114      114      114
Labor Supply
Family labor 1/
Unskilled                 2,322      4,494    4,639   3,792   4,136   4,136   4,136
Semi-skilled                -           85        91      109      114      114      114
Total Supply           2,322      4,579    4,730   3,901   4,250   4,250   4,250
1/ Total labor would increase from 2,322 to 4,250 man-days per year.  The
monthly labor requirement at full development is shown below.
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.   May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Total
Monthly labor
demand           556   707   304   270        84   330   612  231    360   326   140   330   4,250
Labor Supply
Family          556   707   304   270        84   330   612  231    360   326   140   330   4,250
Hired            -      -     -      -       -     -      -    -       -      -     -      -       -
Surplus family
labor             544   393   796   830  1,016   770   488  869    740   774   960   770   8,950
March 22, 1978



- 107 -
ANNEX 3
HONDURAS                                             Table 16
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Parm Model 3 - 75-ha IrriRsted Group Farm (22 families)
Operating Costs
(L)
Without        -----------------------------Years---------------------------
Project           1           2           3           4            5        6-20
Inputs
Seed
Corn                                                 397            554         360         -           -            -           -
Beans                                                -              480         384         -           -           -           -
Soybeans                                             -              858         858       2,145       2,574       2,574       2,574
Sorghum                                              -              294         -           -           -           -           -
Cotton                                               -              444         317         591         591         591          591
Rice                                                 -              -         3,200       4,480       4,480       4,480       4,480
Sub-total                                       397           2,630       5,119       7,216       7,645       7,6k5       7,645
Fertilizers
Corn                                                 -            1,288       2,033                -           -                 -
Beans                                                -              -           331         -           -           -           -
Soybeans                                             -              598         598       1,495       1,794       1,794       1,794
Sorghum                                              -              417         -           -           -           -           -
Cotton                                               -            4,313       3,081       5,751       5,751       5,751       5,751
Rice                                                 -              -         3,312       4,637       5,848       5,848       5,848
Sub-total                                       -            6,616        9,355      11,883      13,393      13,393      13,393
Herbicides, Insecticides, Fungicides
Corn                                                 -              224         146         -           -           -           -
Beans                                                -              450         360         -           -           -           -
Soybeans                                             -              604         604       1,510       1,812       1,812       1,812
Sorghum                                              -               31         -           -           -           -           -
Cotton                                               -            8,400       6,000      11,200      11,200      11,200      11,200
Rice                                                                -       10,360       14,515      14,515      14,515      14,515
Sub-total                                       -            9,709      17,470      27,225       27,527      27,527      27,527
Labor
Family:
Unskilled                                       6,966         13,482      13,917      11,376      12,408      12,408      12,408
Semi-skilled                                       -              510         546         654         684         684         684
Hired                                                -
Sub-total                                     6,966         13,992      14,463       12,030      13,092      13.092      13,092
Tractor and Machinery Maintenance
Corn                                                 -            3,520       2,513
Beans                                                -              180         180         -           -           -           -
Soybeans                                             -              720         720       1,800       2,160       2,160       2,160
Sorghum                                              -            1,073         -           -           -           -           -
Cotton                                               -            2,016       1,440       2,688       2,688       2,688       2,688
Rice                                                 -2,400                               3,360       3,360       3,360       3,360
Sub-total                                       -             7,509       7,253       7,848       8,208       8,208       8,208
Machinery Service Hire
Corn                                               2,838            -            -           -           -           -
Soybeans                                             -              525         525       1,312       1,575       1,575       1,575
Cotton                                               -            2,152       1,537       2,870       2,870       2,870       2,870
Rice                                                 -                        7,740    10,836       10836        10,836      10,836
Sub-total                                     2,838           2,677       9,802     15,018      15,281      15,281      15,281
Container Replacement
Corn                                                 -              240         156         -           -           -           -
Cotton                                               -              210         150         280         280         280         280
Rice                                                 -              -           600         840         840         840         840
Sub-total                                       -               450         906      1,120       1,120       1,120       1,120
Sprayer Operation and Maintenance
Corn                                                 -               640        416         -           -           -           -
Beans                                                -              120          96
Sorghum                                              -              112         -          -           -            -          -
Sub-total                                       -               872         512         -           -           -
Irrigation Operation and Naintenance                 -              -         4,160       6,864       7,400       7,400       7,400
Total Operating Costs                        10,201         44,455      69,040      89,204      93,666      93,666      93,666
February 9, 1978



HONDURAS      -  108  -
ANNEX 3
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             Table 17
Farm Model 3 - 75-ha Irrigated Group Farm (22 families)
Cropping Pattern, Yields, Total Production, Production Value, Operating Costs
Without--     --    ---------    Years  ------------------------------
Wíthout    --                                 Ya
Units     Prolect          1            2            3            4            5          6-20
Cropping Pattern                              ha          43            40           26
Corn                                        ha          -             15           12           -            -            -            -
Soybeans                                   ha           -             10           10           25           30           30           30
Sorghum                                    ha           -                          -            -            -            -            -
Cotton                                      ha          -             21           15           28           28           28           28
Rice                                        ha          -             -            40           56           56           56           56
Cropping Intensity                            %          100           141          145          153          160          160          160
Yields
Corn                                     ton/ha        1.5           2.0          2.3          2.4          2.5          2.5          2.5
Beans                                    ton/ha         -            0.540        0.675        0.756        0.800        0.800        0.800
Soybeans                                 ton/ha         -            1.32         1.58         1.73         1.91         2.00         2.00
Sorghum                                  ton/ha         -            1.40         1.75         1.9          2.0          2.1          2.1
Cotton                                   ton/ha         -            1.45         1.74         1.91         2.0          2.0          2.0
Rice                                     ton/ha         -             -           3.0          3.75         4.12         4.33         4.54
Total Production
Corn                                       ton        64.5          80.0         59.8                        -            -            -
Beans                                      ton          -            8.1          8.1           -            -            -            -
Soybeans                                   ton          -           13.2         15.8         43.25        57.3         60.0         60.0
Sorghum                                    ton          -           19.6           -            -            -            -            -
Cotton                                      ton         -           30.45        26.1         53.48        56.0         56.0         56.0
Rice                                       ton          -             -         120.0        210.0        230.72       242.48       254.24
Farmgate Price
Production Value                   L per ton           ------------------------------  --L-----------------_----____________________
Corn                                   255           16,447        20,400       15,249
Beans                                  498              -           4,034        4,034          -            -            -            -
Soybeanas                              419              -           5,531        6,620       18,122       24,009       25,140       25,140
Sorghumi                               200              -           3,920          -            -            -            -            -
Cotton                                 882              -          26,857       23,020       47,169       49,392       49,392       49,392
Rice                                   350              -             -         42,000       73,500       80,752       84,868       88,984
Total Value                                   16,447        60,742      90,923      138,791      154,153      159,400      163,516
Less on-farm consumption                             3,368         3,368        3,368          -            -            -            -
Total Cash Sales                              13,079       57,374       87,555      138,791      154,153      159,400      163,516
Operating Costa
IÚputS
Seeds                                                   397         2,630        5,119        7,216        7,645        7,645        7,645
Fertilizere                                             -           6,616        9,355       11,883       13,393       13,393       13,393
Herbicides, fungicides, insecticides                    -           9,709       17,470       27,225       27,527       27,527       27,527
Subtotal                                         397        18,955      31,944       46,324       48,565       48,565       48,565
Labor
Family                                                6,966        13.992       14,463        12,030      13,092       13,092       13,092
Hired                                                _     _     _      _     _      _     _      _     _      _     _      __
Subtotal                                       6,966        13,992      14,463        12,030      13,092       13,092       13,092
Tractor operation and maintenance                       -           7,509        7,253         7,848       8,208        8,208        8,208
Machinery service hire                                2,838         2,677        9,802        15,018      15,281       15,281       15,281
Container replacement                                   -             450          906         1,120       1,120        1,120        1,120
Sprayer operation and maintenance                       -             872          512           -           -            -            -
Irrigation operation and maintenance                                  -          4,160         6,864       7,400        7,400        7,400
Total Operating Costs                         10,201        44,455       69,040        89,204     93,666        93,666      93,666
Less family labor                                     6,966        13,992       14,463        12,030      13,092       13,092       13,092
Total Cash Costs                               3,235        30,463       54,577        77,174      80,574       80,574       80,574
February 9, 1978



hONDIIRAS
GUAYAP5 80G111NAL DEOELGIHIT fOJEC?
Fao     l 3 - 75-ha Isoa.ted Grop Par. (22 f.ilic)
C0.h Flpy ad Fa-tly IFco_ Broleotíoo~
(1>
Without        --------------------------------------------___-------------------------------- Ye---   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------
No-Iot            1           2           3          4           5           6           7          _           9          10          11          12          13          14          15           16       17-20
Cteh ILflo.
Ca.h .alee                                      13,079         57,374      87,555    138,791    154,153    159,400    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516
8orroser'e contributol o
olootot 1/                                -            3,235       7.276        -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -           -                       ----                               -
to op.-tlog e1/ _.3,2 -                                                   8,084     26,948      73,040      80.574      80,574      30,574     80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80;574      80,574      80,574
D-roLp-aet Loto 21                                -            4,8          014          -                                                                                                 -  -                                                    - 
SeononaI loon 3/                                  -            30.463      46.483     50.226        3.534       -           -           -           -           -           - 4                     -7- -  -                                       -           -
Total C.ah Inflo.                    13,079        240,662    199,532    215,965    234,727    239,974    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090    244,090
Cash Outflov
Lnvrstment rosto _/                               _           152,825      57,400        -           -          -          1400        -           -           -           -         1,400        -           -           -           -          1,450        -
tael, operatlng sopoasos 5/                      3,235         30,463      54,577      77,174     80,574      80,574      80,574      4 80,57     4 83,574                                 4     80,574      8074 4      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574
Dobt sor-rio
D-ooeep-ot Io-o principrl 4/                    -              -           -           -        23,000      37,000      18,758      18,758      18,758      18,758      18,758      18,758      18,758     18,758      18,758      18,758      18,761
D-velopmeút loan iotorost                       _-                         -           -        29,297      26,768      22,698      20,634      18,570      15,507      14,444      12.380      10,317      8,254       6,190       4,127       2,064
SOo-ssol loso prioip-pl                         -            30,463      46.493      50,226       7,534        -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -          -  
Sasonal bao IDntonsot                           -             3.351       5.114       5.525         829        -           -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -          -
Total Cash Otflos.                    3,235       217,102    163,584    132,925    141,234    144,342    123,430    119,966    117,902    115,839    113,776             113,112    109,649    107,586    105,522    103,459         102,799    80,574
Ctsh Balance                                     9,844         23,560      35,948      83,040      93,493      95,632    120,660    124,124    126,188    128,251    130,314         130,978    134,441    136,504    138,568    140,631    141,291   163,516
LEos ros-ro f-or folloving
y-ar's 50p0 ....                               3,235         15,360      26,948      73,040      80,574     S0,574      80,374      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574     80,574      80,574      80,574      80,574
Wothdroals                                      6 609          8,200       9,000      10,000      12,919      15,058      40,086     43,550      45,614      47,677      49,740      50,404      53,867      55,930      57,994     60,057       60,717     82,942
Fo-  amIY Oooofltn
V       _Lueron-faro rmoos--- tlo                3,368          3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368      3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368       3,368      3,360
Wlithdrowo1o                                     6,609          8,200       9,000      10,000      12,919      15,038      40,086     43,550      45,614      47,677      49,740      50,404      533867      553930      57.994      60,057      60,717    82.942 -
Total Bonefít                          9,977         11,568     12,368      13,368      16,287      18,426      43,454     46,918      48,982      51,045      53,108       53,772     57,235      59,298      61,362      63,425      64,085    86,310
Benefit por Fyolfy                       454            526         562         608         740        838       1,975       2,133       2,226      2,320        2,414       2,444      2,601       2,695       2,789       2,883       2,913      3,923
1/  57 of iovoot-nnt root.
2/  957 of invostnt t .os.t for 16 y-ors (torlodíng 3 yTare gro--  os princIpal and lotoreat) at 11% lot-rost poyoble anually. Itorost ropltol1eod d-roig grano porio.d
3/  Sp to 100%of anní  p-tg  ---t ot 117 a-nnully.
4/ Allo-anr f-or r-pi-cen--t of opto-yoro ad trool  lo years 6, 11 -nd 16,  O.porlnnent of o--hr oothr t .nr  a.no.tod fot io op-nrtog e.p..e...
5/  -n-l-detnpoy-n-t of L 66,627 fo- internet copitalioed dnring y--r-  1-3.
P-bru-ry 27, 1978



HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVEIWPEN1T PROJECT
Faro ISodel 3 - 75-ho írrtgotoñ Geoue F-srn <22 Ro.stlos-)
FisonOtOl Rote of Roturn sud S.ssstivitv A..líVs.
(L)
Wlthout        --------__---------------------------------------------- ---------          Y.,------------      ------ -------- ------------------------------- --------------------__-___------_-________---_--------.-----
P-robot           1          2           3           4           5           6          7           8           9          10          11          12          13          14          15          1j         17-20
-reon  voleo of p-od-tito                             16,447         60,742      90,923    138,791    154,153    159,400    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516    163,516                  163,516
L..s itssestet costo 1/                                  -          152,825      57,400        -           -           -         1,400        -           -           -           -         1,400         -           -           -           -          1.400        -
Leos oper-tisg costo                                   10,201        44,455      69,040      89,204      93,666      93,666     93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666      93,666
A-1osl -et beneflt                                      6,246       (136,538)   (35,517)    49,587       60,487      65,734     68,450      69,850      69,850      69,850      69,850     68,450       69,850      69,850      69,850      69,850     68,450       69,858
teerseeetsí onssl net benefit                           -          (142,784)   (41,763)    43,341        54,241     59,488      62,204      63,604      63,604      63,604     63,604      62,204      63,604      63,604      63,604      63,604      62,204       63,604
Fi-Reol r-te of re-t-r    .  26%
SeoOItívltv Aeoorosi
Reoseoes decesoned 67 102: Rote of retoce - 18%
Coste i-ersos.d by 10%:      Rote of reto    - 19%
j/ Allovono.  fo- ceplooe--t of  -pry-ere sed tolo ie yPest  6, 11 sed 16,  Reploceenet of other  aRhcb y
oreoootod foe fe opecstteg ..p-see..
¡'btofly 27, 1978



- 1.11 -
ANNEX 4
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
8/
Detailed Project Costs
------- ------------Project Years-------------------                         Foreign
1              2               3               4             Total      Exchange
Cost          %
--------------------------------- L------------------------------------
Productive Investment (Credit Program)
Small farmers (1,200 Model 1)                        907,600       1,361h400       1,361,400       1,815,200       5,445,600       45
Rainfed group farms (54 Model 2)                     395,808         714,504         921,104         920,140       2,951,556       62
Irrigated group farms (16 Model 3)
(a) Irrigation works                              296,200         973,800       1,009,400         364,800       2,644,200       39
(b) Other itemas 1/                               339,404         511,506        490,308            3,600       1,344,818       58
Sub-total                                  635,604       1,485,306       1,499,708          368,400       3,989,018       45
Tractors                                             184,000 (8)    138,000 (6)    138,000 (6)              -        460,000       85
Productive Investment Sub-total                      2,123,012       3,699,210       3,920,212       3,103,740      12,846,174        51
Productive Support
Machinery pool equipment 2/                          944,000 (13)           -               -               -        944,000       85
Catacamas research station
(a) Civil works                                   133,600               -               _               -         133,600       50
(b) Equipment                                     115,100               -               -               -         115,100       85
Sub-total                                  248,700                -               -               -         248,700       71
Roads
(a) Civil works                                      673,750         673,750               -               -       1,347,500       51
(b) Equipment 3/                                           -         340,000 (5)           -               -         340,000       85
(c) Operating costs                                        -          31,500          36,750          36.750         105,000       60
Sub-total                                  673,750       1,045,250          36,750           36,750       1,792,500       60
Productive Support Sub-total                         1,866,450       1,045,250          36,750          36,750       2,985,200       69
Technical Assistance
Consultants (4) 4/                                   220,000         440,000         330,000         110,000       1,100,000        95
Special studies 5/                                   500,000         500,000         500,000                -      1,500,000      100
Technical Assistance Sub-total                         720,000         940,000         830,000          110,000      2,600,000        98
Administration
Project Unit
(a) Land                                            4,800               -               -               -           4,800        0
(b) Civil works                                   392,516               -               -               -         392,516       40
(c) Vehicles                                      209,000 (17)    96,000 (8)    840,000 (7)        72,000 (6)    461,000        85
(d) Furniture and office equipment                179,390               -               -               -         179,390       82
(e) Extension unit demonstration plots              5,400          12,150          18,900          25,650          62,100       80
(f) Training                                       10,000          10,000          10,000          10,000          40,000      100
(g) Revolving fund                                 50,000               -               -               -          50,000        0
(h) Operating costs 6/                            524,725         670,131         934,162       1.091 197       3,220,215        9
Sub-total                                1,375,831         788,281       1,047,062        1,198 847      4,410,021        25
Catacamas Research Station Operating Costs 7/           49,020          49,020          56,373          56,373         210,786        0
Administration Sub-total                             1.424,851         837.301       1.103,435        1.255.220      4,620,807        24
Total baseline cost                                  6,134,313       6.521,761       5,890,397       4,505,710      23,052,181       53
1/ Includes on-farm investment (except irrigation works) and seasonal credit
for agricultural inputs.
2/ Includes four tracked tractora, four land levellers, four combine grain harvester and
one truck.
3/ Includes one motor grader, one front-end loader, three dump trucks   and spare parts.
4/ A total of 120 man-» nths of consultants' services will be provided by four consultant's
with specialities in irrigation, agriculture, extension development and agricultural
credit.
5/ To finance a portíon of the foreign exchange cost of the Aguan Valley Study (currently
estimated to cost about US$2.0 million).
6/ Includes salaries and allowances for local staff, utilities, vehicle operating costs and
miscellaneous expenses for office operation.
7/ Salaries and allowances for additional staff.
8/ Parentheses indicate number of units.
May 1, 1978



- 112 -
ANNEX 5
HONDURAS
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
(a) Guayape Rural Development Project, FAO/Bank Cooperative
Program, Volume I and II, Report No. 29/27 HON, 5,
August 8, 1977;
(b) Agricultural/Rural Sector Survey, IBRD/IDB/USAID,
Report No. 971-HO, January 1978;
(c) Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and Prospects
of Honduras, IBRD, Report No. 1856-HO, January 1978;
(d) Guayape River Basin Development Project/Program, CIDA, 1977;
(e) Ley General de Aguas: Anteproyecto (Tercer Documento Secretaria
de Recursos Naturales), November 1976;
(f) Inventario de la Situacion Actual de los Recursos Fisicos
Disponibles en el Distrito de Riego Flores. Secretaria de
Recursos Naturales, 1976;
(g) Banco Nacional de Fomento. Fundamentos para la Reconstruccion
del Banco Nacional de Fomento, December 1976;
(h) Banco Central de Honduras. Superintendencia de Bancos.
Informe Anual de Auditoria sobre el Examen de los Estados
Financieros del Banco Nacional de Fomento al 31 de diciembre
de 1976. March 1977;
(1) Departamento de Estado, AID. Evaluacion de la Organizacion,
Politicas y Procedimientos y Controles Internos del Banco
Nacional de Fomento de Honduras;
(j) Servicios Tecnicos del Caribe Consultores. Plan para la
Reestructuracion del Banco Nacional de Fomento de Honduras.
August 1977; and
(k)  Banco Nacional de Fomento.  Estados Financieros al 31 de
diciembre de 1976.



- 113 -
ANNEX 5
Appraisal Mission Worklng Papers
(a) Small Farmer Credit Delivery System;
(b) Irrigation Development;
(c) Road Program;
(d) Agricultural Development;
(e) Machinery Services; and
(f) Agriculture and Rural Sector.
March 23, 1978






___________________________________________________                                                                                          189D   13243~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18    RD   ?24
8EI  Li tA                                                                                                                                                              Lo ;CX ,     f 0,   0    i8  ' col   FEERUARLY   1978
1< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
t >t ~~~~~~~ ;~-                                                                          ,                                                                         CATACA"A
1i H~ O  NilH                                                                                                                             A D   U  R   A   S
GUAYAPE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
'\  I!JC 0toA Vio' _ lo   J    ° °   l                                     /                 j                                           \     /                     \      \O_
L o o   bE  oo D 0 n o-  _                                                                                                                                                 0 0   O* ^ ;  , r  J   O S A N   0 0C A -
SC          Q                         \ f           S    eS                        \       '-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,.
X      gNrV                                           'X                 /   <S    \}  U/:                                  \   ''z'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
>,   r   Á\                                         \            -               _    Q+lQb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U-TAGo\ 
n   A      ,                                      t        r                        i'8a                                \   ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d
5~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                             'j      z=M'''
J   3f@EtERB  5 @1 n %-v« mA /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



