Report No. PID9249
Project Name                     Bolivia-Programmatic Structural Adjustment (@)
Credit for Decentralization
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       BOPE68134
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Date PID Prepared                February 27, 2001
Appraisal (planned)              March 6, 2001
Board Date (planned)             April 24, 2001
1.       Background. Beginning with the approval (in 1994) of the Law of Popular
Participation and the subsequent passage of the Administrative
Decentralization Law in 1995, the Government of Bolivia has demonstrated its
commitment to decentralization and popular participation in local governance
as guiding principles for the reform of the country's public administration.
2.       The decentralization reform agenda is directed toward the broader
objectives described in the Government's Letter of Development Program,
including: (i) implementation of a new decentralization framework based on
the redefinition of responsibility and resource allocation across levels of
government; (ii) simplification, codification and dissemination of fiscal and
financial rules for subnational governments; (iii) improving the viability of
the municipal credit system and ensuring fiscal discipline; and (iv) the
transformation of the existing system of discretionary government transfers
into formula-driven matching grants for targeted municipal investments.
3.       The reform agenda for decentralization contributes to a more
comprehensive set of strategic decentralization objectives, which include:
(i) the rationalization of the role of the intermediate level of government;
(ii) improved intergovernmental cooperation for harmonizing poverty-
alleviation programs and other public expenditure priorities; (iii) enhancing
governmental accounting, financial administration and accountability at all
levels of government; and (iv) harmonizing national spending sector-by-sector
with an established decentralization framework.
4.       Project Objectives and Description. The proposed credit is a
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) to support Bolivia's
decentralization reform program. It is envisaged that over the four-year
period of Bolivia's reform program, there could be one two-tranche and up to
three single-tranche PSACs (future operations are envisaged to be in the form
of Poverty Reduction Support Credits, or PRSCs) to support the implementation
of policy reforms amounting to an overall resource envelope of approximately
US$180 million, depending on the size and scope of the future PRSC program.
The operation is a joint effort between the Bank and the donor community in
Bolivia and is supported with financing from the Governments of the
Netherlands, Germany (through GTZ), the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark



and is clearly linked to programs supported by the Inter-American Development
Bank, KfW, and USAID. The comprehensive decentralization reform program,
already underway, aims to adapt the existing institutional framework for
improved decentralized public service delivery and governance to implement
the Government's poverty reduction strategy. Specifically, the program will
support the Government in its efforts to improve the delivery of public
services to the poor through increased efficiency, transparency and
accountability of Bolivia's decentralized government system and through
improving the capacity of the decentralized government system to deliver
these services.
5.       Bolivia expects to achieve these objectives by implementing specific
reforms in the areas of (i) improving the regulatory and institutional
framework for decentralization; (ii) enhancing community participation,
particularly of poor and excluded groups such as women and indigenous
peoples, in municipal affairs and expenditure; (iii) restoring fiscal
discipline; (iv) strengthening financial and institutional capacity of all
levels of government to support the delivery of local public services; and
(v) improving availability of credit financing for municipal investments.
6.       Project Cost and Financing. The initial credit of the PSAC amounts to
US$60 million equivalent, to be disbursed in two tranches. The IDA Credit
will be supported with resources from the international community, including
the Government of the Netherlands (US$10 million), DFID (US$7 million, the
Government of Sweden (US$3 million), and the Government of Denmark ($1
million). The operation was designed in concert with ongoing parallel
activities in the sector supported by the Inter-American Development Bank,
KfW, USAID, and the Caja Andina de Fomento.
7.       Rationale for IDA Involvement. Institutional reforms focused on
decentralization, transparency, and accountability are the core of the
reforms to be supported by the PSAC, and IDA has been deeply involved in the
ongoing dialogue between the Government and the international community. The
reforms build upon the significant work undertaken through the existing
Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) in Bolivia and the institutional
reform agenda supported through the Bank's exiting Institutional Reform
Project (IRP) and Financial Decentralization and Accountability Project
(ILACO).
8.       Project Implementation. The implementation of the reform agenda is
supported by a range of local stakeholders within government and with the
Bank's CDF partners.
9.       Environmental Aspects. No environmental issues are raised by the
proposed operation. As a condition of disbursement, the Government will
finalize operational manuals for the newly established National Social and
Public Investment Fund and for the National Fund for Regional Development
which include detailed procedures on environmental management.
10.      Contact Information
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
-2-



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager: Eleoterio Codato / Fernando Rojas
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8646 / (202) 458-7963
Fax: (202) 522-3552
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 2, 2001.
- 3 -



