Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7439-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR
DECENTRALIZATION
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.7 MILLION
(US$ 60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
April 16, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



BOLIVIA - PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDfT FOR
DECENTRALIZATION
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of February 28, 2001)
Currency Unit = Boliviano
US$1.00  = 6.454 Bolivianos
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL - Adaptable Program Loan
CAF - Andean Development Bank (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento)
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CDF - Comprehensive Development Framework
CFAA - Country Financial Adequacy Assessment
CONAPE - National Council on Political Economy (Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica)
CPAR - Country Procurement Assessment Review
DFID - Department for International Development of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland
DUF - Unified Directorate of Funds
EBMS -Electronic Bidding Management System
FAM - Federation of Municipal Associations
FDC - Rural Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIS - Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FNDR - National Fund for Regional Development (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional)
FPS - National Social and Public Investment Fund (Fondo Nacional de Inversi6n Productivay Social)
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
CGR - The Controller General
GTZ - Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HDI - Human Development Index
HIPC - Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Association
IADB - Inter-American Development Bank
ILACO - Financial Decentralization and Accountability Project
IMF - International Monetary Fund
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director: Ernesto May
Pillar Leader: Pablo Alonso
Team Leaders: Fernando Rojas / Eleoterio Codato



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- iii -
IRP - Institutional Reform Project
KfW - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS - Management Information System
NCP - National Compensation Policy
NGO - Non-Governmental Organization
OCS - Operational Core Services
OTB - Territorially Based Organizations (Organizaciones Territoriales de Base)
PAI - Institutional Reform Plan (Plan de Ajuste Institucional)
POA - Annual Operational Plan (Plan de Operaciones Anual)
PREM - Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRF - Financial Restructuring Program (Programa de Readecuaci6n Financiera)
PRSP - Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC - Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
SAFCO - Law of Government Control and Management
SCL - Single Currency Loan
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SICOES - Integrated System for Government Procurement
SIGMA - Support for Improvement in Governance and Management
SYSER - Output Performance Management System (Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n de Resultados)
TOC - Community Based Territories (Territorios de Origen Comunitario)
UNDP - United Nations Development Program
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
VC - Vigilance Committee
VMTCP - Vice Minister of the Treasury and Public Credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- iv -
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR DECENTRALIZATION
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Bolivia
Amount:            SDR 46.7 million (US$ 60 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA Terms
Commitment Fee:    Standard: a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance set
annually by the Executive Directors
Objectives and     The proposed credit of SDR 46.7 million (US$60 million equivalent) is a
Description:       Programmatic  Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) to  support Bolivia's
decentralization reform program. It is envisaged that over the four-year period of
Bolivia's reform program, there could be one two-tranche and up to three single-
tranche PSACs (future operations are envisaged to be in the form of Poverty
Reduction Support Credits, or PRSCs) to support the implementation of policy
reforms amounting to an overall resource envelope of approximately US$180
million, depending on the size and scope of the future PRSC program. The operation
is a joint effort between the Bank and the donor community in Bolivia and is
supported with financing from the Governments of the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom, and Sweden, and is clearly linked to programs supported by the Inter-
American Development Bank, Germany, Denmark, USAID, and the Corporacion
Andina de Fomento (CAF) under parallel arrangements. The comprehensive
decentralization reform program, already underway, aims to adapt the existing
institutional framework for improved decentralized public service delivery and
governance to implement the Government's poverty reduction strategy.
Specifically, the program will support the Government in its efforts to improve the
delivery of public services to the poor through increased efficiency, transparency
and accountability of Bolivia's decentralized government system and through
improving the capacity of the decentralized government system to deliver these
services.
Bolivia expects to achieve these objectives by implementing specific reforms in the
areas of: (i) improving the regulatory and institutional framework for
decentralization; (ii) enhancing community participation, particularly of poor and
excluded groups such as women and indigenous peoples, in municipal affairs and
expenditure; (iii) restoring fiscal discipline; (iv) strengthening financial and
institutional capacity of all levels of government to support the delivery of local
public services; and (v) improving availability of credit financing for municipal
investments.
Benefits:          The actions under the PSAC will aid fiscal adjustment and will contribute to the
sustainability of the reform process by strengthening the institutional framework
needed to improve the public sector's capacity to more effectively implement
Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy. The PSAC will have a direct benefit on the
efficiency and delivery of public services, especially to the poor, through the
rescheduling of the debt of overindebted municipalities and through the



- v -
strengthening of the system for financing municipal investment and service delivery
and strengthening of delivery institutions.  The PSAC will also improve the
transparency and accountability of government and will facilitate the transition from
a system of discretionary transfers from the central government towards a system of
formula-driven matching grants which target both poverty and the Government's
sectoral priorities. Transparency and participation will further promote efficient and
equitable service delivery and, as a result, contribute to Bolivia's Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
Risks:              There are three key risks associated with the Government's programs for the
deepening of decentralization. First, the lack of institutional capacity of the
Government to implement the reform agenda which it has initiated is a risk. Because
the decentralization reforms cut across a number of line ministries, sharing of
responsibilities within a number of Government institutions will be critical to the
success of the reforms.
Second, a further deterioration of the socio-economic situation and resulting political
instability may derail the reform process. Institutional and governance reform is
inherently risky, and there is a risk that recent domestic instability will continue and
distract policy makers from progressing on decentralization reform. Furthermore,
Bolivia's National Dialogue pointed out that failure of the political parties to
recognize independent local and regional representation tends to exclude the voices
of those articulating local community concerns.
Finally, because the decentralization reform agenda is medium-term in nature, policy
reforms to be carried out will continue into the next administration, to be elected in
2002. Though many of the needed institutional reforms will take place during the
tenure of the current administration, the risk that the subsequent administration will
be less committed to reform is significant.
To mitigate these risks, IDA will continue to work closely with its Comprehensive
Development Framework (CDF) partners in assisting the Government to implement
the reform agenda. Clearly, the programmatic lending approach facilitates the
implementation of a medium-term program of reforms and allows for the necessary
medium-term policy-based interaction between the donor community and the
Government. During program preparation, IDA and its CDF partners engaged in a
significant dialogue with all involved institutions in Government and continue to
provide substantive input on progressing with the reform program. Finally, access
to future PSACs will be conditioned on the Government's continued success in
implementing its decentralization reforms.
Schedule of         SDR 23,350,000 immediately after loan effectiveness (expected in May 2001) and
Disbursements:      SDR 23,350,000  after meeting conditions of 2nd tranche disbursement around
January 2002
Poverty Category:    Not applicable
Project ID Number:   BO-PE-P068134



- Vi -
Map                  IBRD No. 31131






- vii -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FOR DECENTRALIZATION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. BACKGROUND                                                                2
HI. BOLIVIA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY                                     2
III. THE ECONOMY                                                             3
A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                         3
B. MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS                                                4
IV. BOLIVIA'S DECENTRALIZATION REFORM PROGRAM                                5
A. RECENT MILESTONES AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK                        5
B. INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF BOLIVIA'S
DECENTRALIZED GOVERNMENT SYSTEM                                       6
C. IMPROVING THE CAPACITY OF BOLIVIA'S DECENTRALIZED GOVERNMENT SYSTEM TO
DELIVER PUBLIC SERVICES                                              14
V. THE WORLD BANK STRATEGY                                                  22
A. IDA GRADUATION AND ALLOCATION                                       22
B. THE WORLD BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR FY02 - FY03
C. COORDINATION IN THE CONTEXT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK  24
D. LINKING THE CREDIT TO THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER          26
VI. THIE PROPOSED CREDIT                                                    26
A. PSAC FRAMEWORK                                                      27
B. ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD PRESENTATION                           28
C. POVERTY IMPLICATIONS                                                29
D. ARRANGEMENTS FOR MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING          29
E. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION                                               31
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                   31
VII. RECOMMENDATION                                                         32



- viii -
ANNEXES:
ANNEX I -KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS (1996-2004)                                        33
ANNEX 2- LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                               35
ANNEX 3A - KEY POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED UNDER THE FIRST CREDIT                      45
ANNEx 3B - POLICY REFORM PROGRAM MATRIX                                             47
ANNEX 4 - POVERTY IMPACT APPRAISAL: MAKING DECENTRALIZATION WORK FOR POOR  55
PEOPLE
ANNEX 5- BOLIVIA'S CPAR REFORM AGENDA                                               68
ANNEX 6-BOLIVIA AT A GLANCE                                                         74
ANNEx 7-STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                             76
ANNEX 8- STATEMENT OF IFC's HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO                            77
MAP - IBRD No. 31131                                                                78
The task team includes: Keisgner Alfaro, Pablo Alonso, Eleoterio Codato, Adrian De Mayo, William
Dillinger, Eduardo Freudenthal, Luigi Giovine, Yasuhiko Matsuda, Carlos Mollinedo, Fernando Rojas,
Paul Sisk, David Sislen, David Tuchschneider (IDA); Gunther Meinert, Wolf Dio, Ute Orestes (GTZ);
Michael Behinger (KfW); Monica Iwersen (Embassy of Germany); Rosalind Eyben, Liz Ditchburn, Mark
Lewis, Claudia Fumo (DFID); Orieta Sacre, Liliana Ayalde (USAID); John Nielsen, Fernando Medina
(Embassy of Denmark); Jorge Cortez, Peter de Haan, Han Mauritis Schaapveld (Netherlands); Bo
Westman, Ulrika Lang (Embassy of Sweden); Carlos Carafa (Embassy of Switzerland)
Peer Reviewers include: James Hicks, Michael Schaeffer, and Mila Freire



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE          decentralization efforts and policy reform of the
PRESIDENT OF THE                 intergovernmental transfer system. The CAF is
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT             supporting the Government's Municipal Debt
ASSOCIATION                    Restructuring Program  with a US$40 million
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS            loan.
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR             Table 1: Donor Support to Decentralization
DECENTRALIZATION TO                               (in $ million)
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA                      -___o____ PS                  _ .0 _.
1.    I submit for your approval the following                                   $ 7.0
Report and Recommendation on a proposed                        Swoden            $ 0'
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit to the
Republic of Bolivia for SDR 46.7 million to      aI_______
support  the  Government's  decentralization                                     $47.0
reform program.
2.    The   proposed   operation   is   a         Oot!tofD          Ai- $ 1.0
Programmatic  Structural Adjustment  Credit      U_:                             $ 5.0
(PSAC)'. It is the first operation in a series of up  CA-                        $:0.
to three subsequent PSACs over the next four                                   ______
years that would provide fast-disbursing support                                $ zoi.e
to Bolivia's medium-term decentralization reform  4.    These reforms aim at improved delivery
program.                                        of public sector services, particularly for poor
people through (a) increasing the efficiency,
3.    The operation should be viewed as a joint  transparency and accountability of Bolivia' s
effort on behalf of IDA and the greater donor   decentralized  government system  and  (b)
community in Bolivia, who have supported the     improving the capacity of the decentralized
operation during its preparation through the     government system  to deliver these services.
Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF).      Five areas of work have been identified in order
The proposed PSAC  will be supported by         to achieve the PSAC's immediate objectives.
cofinancing in the amount of approximately       These are:
US$21 million equivalent by the Department for
International Development (DFID) of the United   *  Improving the institutional and regulatory
Kingdom,  and  the  Governments  of  the            framework for decentralization;
Netherlands and Sweden. Further, the proposed    *  Enhancing    community    participation,
operation is closely linked with other donor-       p
financed parallel activities, including the Inter   partiulr  of p    ndiexcudedoups sc
,                 ~~~~~as women  and  indigenous peoples, In
American Development Bank's proposed Local          municipal affairs and expenditure;
Development and Fiscal Responsibility Project             . Restoring fiscal discipline;
(US$47 million) and the work which USAID,       *   strmgfinancialand                t
Denmark, and Germany (through GTZ and KfW)       *       Strengthening  financial and  institutional
are  undertaking  in  supporting   Bolivia's        capacity of all levels of government to
are_undertaking_ in_ supporting  Bolivia's          support the delivery of local public services
See Programmatic and Emergency Adjustment Lending:    . Improving availability of credit financing for
World Bank Guidelines (R98-249), October 22, 1998 and  municipal investments
Guidelines for Programmatic Adjustment Loans/Credits,
Operational Memorandum, February 11, 2000.



-2 -
5.    The medium term reforms supported by        II. BOLIVIA'S POVERTY REDUCTION
the  PSAC  program  are  laid  out in  the                     STRATEGY
Government's Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 2) and reflected in the multiyear matrix of  9.    Slightly less than two thirds of Bolivia's
policy and institutional reforms with monitorable  population are poor (as measured in monetary
indicators and progress benchmarks for the      terms) and slightly more than one third of the
proposed operation and each subsequent credit   population live in extreme poverty.  Poverty
(Annex 3).                                      affects half of the population in large cities, two
thirds in other urban areas and 80% in rural
I. BACKGROUND                       areas.2 This last decade has led to a substantial
increase in access to services although there are
6.     Beginning with the approval (in 1994) of  considerable regional variations and the quality
the Law  of Popular Participation and the       and efficiency of recurrent expenditures remains
subsequent passage  of the  Administrative      low. The trend is for an increasing inter-regional
Decentralization Law in 1995, the Government of  difference in the Human Development Index
Bolivia has demonstrated its commitment to      (HDI). On the basis of these trends, the Bolivia
decentralization and popular participation in local  United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
governance as guiding principles for the reform  Human Development Report (2000) predicts that
of the country's public administration.         by 2004 the department of Santa Cruz will have
an average HDI double that of Potosi. Bolivia is
7.     The decentralization reform agenda is    also the only one of four Highly Indebted Poor
directed toward the broader objectives described  Countries II (HIPC2) countries in Latin America
in the Government's Letter of Development       for which the HDI ranking is below the GDP
Program, including: (i) implementation of a new  ranking.
decentralization framework based on the
redefinition  of responsibility  and  resource  10.   Following a broad-based consultation
allocation across levels of government; (ii)    with representatives from all municipalities, civil
simplification, codification and dissemination of  society and the private sector through the
fiscal and  financial rules  for subnational    National Dialogue, the Government of Bolivia's
governments; (iii) improving the viability of the  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) is
municipal credit system  and ensuring fiscal    currently being finalized. The PRSP will focus
discipline; and (iv) the transformation of the  on the following key objectives:
existing system of discretionary government
transfers into fornula-driven matching grants for  *  increased and improved opportunities for
targeted municipal investments.                    poor people;
* expanded capacities of the poorer by
8.     The reform agenda for decentralization      increasing the quality of and access to
contributes to a more comprehensive set of         education and health services;
strategic  decentralization  objectives,  which    reduced vulnerability ofthepoortoshocks;
include: (i) the rationalization of the role of the               . srengtednedaricition and inerato so
intermediate level of government; (ii) improved    sthep es pand
intergovernmental cooperation for harmonizing
poverty-alleviation programs and other public   *  improved   institutions    and    public
expenditure   priorities;   (iii)   enhancing      administration to create a solid framework for
governmental      accounting,     financial        the implementation of the PRSP.
administration and accountability at all levels of
government; and (iv) harmonizing national
spending sector-by-sector with an established   2
decentralization framework.                        World Bank, Bolivia Poverty Diagnostic, 2000.



-3 -
11.    Within the public administration system,     declined to worryingly low levels. Activity in the
the National Dialogue called for a more correct     construction sector remains wavering and private
application of the Law of Popular Participation at  sector employment has declined so far this year4.
the  municipal  level  and   a  reform   of
decentralization as a key element in the Poverty    14.    Moreover, all evidence indicates that the
Reduction Strategy.                                 recession  has severely affected the relatively
large Bolivian informal economy. The social
HI. THE ECONOMY                         dimensions of the crisis are deepening as already
modest incomes keep falling, especially among
A. Recent Economic Developments                     the most vulnerable sectors of the population.
Social tensions erupted in several places in April,
12.   In  1999, growth decelerated sharply:         raising concerns about the country's political
annual GDP growth rate was 0.6 percent, in          stability and increasing perceptions of political
contrast with the average annual growth rates of    risk. In September 2000, the Government faced a
4.3 percent that were observed during most of       three-pronged, synchronized attack from  large
the past decade. A number of external factors       and influential groups of workers: peasants,
contributed to this reduction in the pace of        teachers,   and   coca-growers   (cocaleros).
growth. Among these figure: the international       Together,  these  groups  have,  in  several
crises of Brazil and Russia  (which led to a        occasions, virtually paralyzed the economy by
slowdown of capital inflows), adverse climatic      blocking roads between key cities.
developments, the boom  in  international oil
prices, a significant decline in the terms of trade3,  15.   In response to the downturn  of the
the Argentinean recession (which led to a decline   economy, the Government is elaborating a third
in remittances), and the sharp devaluation of the   version of the Economic Reactivation Plan5 (the
Brazilian Real (that eroded the competitiveness of  first two failed) with the purpose of stimulating
exports).  In addition, the situation has been      the  economy  by  reallocating  spending  into
compounded by the successful coca eradication       programs aimed to boost short-term  demand.
efforts, the authorities' determined pursuit of     Measures in this Plan include: rescheduling of
customs reform  (which weakened contraband),        bank loans, relaxing provisioning requirements
and new banking regulations directed to improve     on new lending, an emergency jobs program, and
prudential norms and control mechanisms.            selective tax exemptions among others. In the
context of this situation, there is strong political
13.    The economic recovery in 2000 has been       pressure to provide municipalities with additional
much weaker than what was expected at the           resources, based on the assumption that by
beginning of the year. Year-on-year real GDP        boosting   demand  through   public  works,
growth was only 2.3 percent during the first half
of 2000. Domestic demand remains weak and
unemployment has increased. The private sector,     4 According to employment data from  the labor
over-indebted and unable to access credit, has      ministry, for the first four months of 2000, an estimate
been facing severe financial difficulties. Bank     of 1,199 employees in the private sector lost their jobs
credit to the private sector has shrunk and non-    as did some 2,594 workers in the public sector over
performing loans increased from 4.6 percent of      the same period, the cities most affected being La Paz
total portfolio in 1998 to around 11 percent in     and Cochabamba.
September 2000. Banking system profits have         5 The recently (March 2000) approved Economic
Stimulus package (Plan de Reactivacion Econ6mica,
3The ters of trade fell approximately by a          PRE) consists of selective tax breaks and emergency
cumulative 16 percent between early- 1998 and mid-  public spending measures, it also includes an easing of
1999, but have increased by about 13 percent since  capital and provisioning requirements for banks that
then.                                               reprogram overdue loans.



-4 -
municipalities will contribute to reactivate the   growth in the large agricultural sector will depend
economy.                                           on the ability of coca farmers to switch to
alternative crops. This will require substantial
16.   In this context, the fiscal situation has    capital injections in the under-invested rural
been deteriorating but is not expected to be overly  sector.
destabilizing. The fiscal deficit is estimated to
reach 4.0 percent of GDP for 2000, in line with    20.    As gross savings rates remain low in
the current program  agreed with the IMF.          Bolivia (at around 12 percent of GDP), growth
Against this background, the real growth rate for  prospects depend crucially on (i) the possibility
2000 is estimated to be 3.0 percent while the      of attracting  additional external savings to
annual inflation rate is expected to reach 5.0     generate additional investment, and (ii) increasing
percent at the end of the year.                    the efficiency of current investments. In order to
achieve this, the Government should further
17.    Developments in the external sector have    promote  policies  to  attract foreign  direct
been,  on  the  other  hand,  encouraging.         investments and introduce measures to improve
Nontraditional exports in the January-July period  the  efficiency  of investment, in  particular
were 11.5 percent higher than a year earlier while  improvements  in  the  judicial  system   and
the growth of total merchandise exports was        reductions in corruption levels are much needed.
about 12 percent. The external current account
deficit in 2000 is expected to be very similar to  21.   In  order to  increase  its  levels of
the one in 1999: 6.7 percent of GDP. Direct        investment, Bolivia will need to obtain substantial
foreign investment remains strong. It will amount  foreign exchange inflows.  During the next 4
to US$703 million for the 2000 year.  Net          years, the current account deficit is expected to
international reserves will be some US$150         gradually decline from its current value of 6.7
million higher in 2000 relative to 1999.           percent of GDP to levels closer to 5.5 percent of
GDP. The ability to attract important amounts of
B. Medium Term Prospects                           foreign investment will be critical to finance these
still high levels of current account deficit and the
18.    Medium term  prospects clearly depend       investments that the country need to achieve a
on a fiscal reform and the passage of legislation  higher growth path.
aimed to strengthen the financial system. Fiscal
deficits remain high in Bolivia in part due to     22.   In  the  2001-2003  period,  external
significant inefficiencies in tax collection, which  financing  needs  in  Bolivia  will  be  of
at 18 percent of GDP is low compared with          approximately US$2.3 billion, of which US$1.7
regional levels. Although much has been done in    billion are necessary to finance the current
what respects  to  banking  supervision  and       account deficit and US$633 million are needed to
regulation, improvements are still required in the  meet external debt obligations. Foreign direct
financial sector.6  In addition, it would be       investment is expected to represent around 80
necessary to fortify social safety nets as the poor  percent of these financing needs while the public
have been disproportionately affected by the       sector would represent 15 percent of these needs.
economic recession.                                The remainder is expected to come from portfolio
investments and loans to the private sector.
19.    As more than 90 percent of the coca
production has been eradicated, medium term
6
6 In particular, a financial strengthening law that
includes the introduction of deposit insurance is still
pending Congress approval.



- 5 -
IV. BOLIVIA'S DECENTRALIZATION                 driven  fiscal  transfers,  have  stimulated
REFORM PROGRAM                         community involvement in local affairs8 and
made local governments more autonomous in
A.   Recent Milestones and  Institutional         planning and resource allocation, as well as in
Framework                                        their responsiveness to citizen demands.  By
1999, 64.1 percent of public investment funds
23.    Decentralization has been one of the       were managed by decentralized public entities, of
Government's  most  important  institutional      which  municipalities directly  managed  35.9
reforms initiated in the  1990s.   After the      percent.  This is a significant change when
Constitution that defines Bolivia as a unitary    compared to 1994's figure for decentralized
state, the most important legislation that provides  public investment which stood at only 35.7
the legal framework for the current state of      percent.
decentralized public administration in Bolivia
includes: (1) the Law of Popular Participation of  26.   The        1995        Administrative
1994; (2) the Administrative Decentralization    Decentralization    Law    defined   regional
Law of 1995; and (3) the new Municipal Law of     Departments (Prefecturas) as deconcentrated
1999.                                            arms of the central administration, responsible for
regional development as well as for strengthening
24.    The main objectives of the Law  of         local  governments  and  reaching  isolated
Popular Participation were to strengthen local    municipalities    within   their   respective
autonomy and municipal accountability with       jurisdictions.  The 1999 Municipality Law has
participatory social mechanisms and to partially  introduced adjustments to some of the legal
equalize distribution of public resources across  mechanisms of Popular Participation such as
municipalities of different sizes. This marked the  procedural modifications to the "constructive
beginning of a radical process of decentralization.  censure vote," and provided a legal basis for
Some 315 municipalities, most of them recently    introducing    a    merit-based    personnel
created, were given significant political and     administration in municipal governments.
administrative autonomy, supported by 20
percent of the central government's current       27.   In spite of these legal breakthroughs,
revenues  as  nearly  unconditional transfers     municipalities have yet to take full advantage of
(coparticipaciones).7  The new Law introduced    their legal autonomy  to  manage  resources
several innovative mechanisms for allowing        efficiently and responsibly, and, thus contribute
citizens and communities to hold municipal        positively to poverty reduction and otherwise
government accountable, including: (i) the vote   meet citizens' needs at the local level. While the
of  "constructive  censure,"  which  allows       weak institutional capacity of municipalities is an
municipal councils to vote out mayors on account  important reason for the sub-optimal performance
of poor performance and (ii) the community-       of Bolivia's decentralized public administration,
based  Vigilance Committees, which  oversee       another  cause  of the  under-utilization  of
municipal resource management and can request     municipalities' potential capacity  lie in the
Congress to "freeze" a municipal account if there  confusing  incentives framework  that guides
are   suspicions   of   fraud   or   severe      intergovernmental relations today.  The most
mismanagement.                                    significant confusing signals arise from: (i) the
ambiguous distribution of responsibilities and ill-
25.    These new  institutional avenues for
participation at the local level, combined with the
increase and redistribution of automatic, formula   Particularly in small and medium-sized cities and
rural municipalities, not as much in large cities. See
UJNDP, Informe de Desarrollo Humano de Bolivia,
General revenue sharing or coparticipaciones.   2000.



-6 -
defined accountability across the three levels of  the Government's approach to financing priority
public administration, which invite politically-  sectors at the local level through a transparent
motivated  interventions   by  the   central      formula-driven system of matching grants that
government and Prefecturas in municipal affairs   will  make  significant  progress  towards
and   stifle   possibilities   of  institutional  eliminating  discretionary  transfers  and  put
development at the sub-national levels; (ii)      Bolivia at par with countries that have an
inconsistent criteria for, and non-transparent    advanced system  of intergovernmental fiscal
implementation of, intergovernmental transfers    relations.  In addition, the Government has
(e.g., transfers via social investment funds and  initiated a program for restructuring the finances
direct spending and transfers to municipalities by  of overindebted  municipalities  in  order to
the regional Prefecturas were not made part of a  enhance the capacity of municipal governments
coherent system  of intergovernmental fiscal     to support needed investment.
relations); (iii) poorly regulated, non-transparent
and undisciplined sub-national borrowing which    B. Increasing the Efficiency, Transparency,
has led to overindebtedness and constrained       and Accountability of Bolivia's Decentralized
investment capacity; (iv) inadequate monitoring,  Government System
control; and coordination of intergovernmental
relations, and (v) poor information systems and   29.   Background.  A key objective of the
limited countervailing power by civil society.    Government's decentralization reform program is
Finally, the National Dialogue called for an      to improve the transparency, accountability, and
expansion of political representation to include  efficiency   of  the  public  administration.
indigenous  and  citizen  organizations  and      Improving access to information, heightening
institutions,  as  well  as  to  institutionalize  fiduciary  accountability, and  increasing  the
participatory mechanisms; e.g., the Dialogue      overall transparency of Bolivia's three-tiered
itself. A clear statement on corruption was made  public administration are critical to the successful
and suggestions to address the problem included  implementation of the decentralization reform
citizen training programs, institutionalization and  program  and  to  Bolivia's greater goal of
transparency of public posts with civil society   implementing its Poverty Reduction Strategy.
participation,  and   more  active   popular
participation in control mechanisms. With respect  30.   Transparency,   accountability    and
to poverty-reduction funds, the role of the       efficiency  of Bolivia's  decentralized  public
Vigilance Committee as the primary mechanism     administration will also be enhanced by the
of social control at the municipal level was      introduction of the integrated financial transfer
reaffirmed. At the same time, the weaknesses of   and control system  (SIGMA) and the output
the Vigilance Committees were fully recognized.   performance measurement system  (SYSER) at
central level (to be introduced in 2001), and at
28.   In  response  to  these  issues  the        prefectural and municipal levels soon thereafter.
Government has formulated a reform agenda that    Strengthening   prefectural  and   municipal
provides a unifying strategic vision to deepen the  administrative and financial control capacities
decentralization process, and has taken bold steps  form another critical factor in the process. The
to initiate these reforms. In recent months the   Controller General (CGR) is to play an important
Government has mandated the merger of the         role in auditing the accounts of prefectures and
existing social development funds, the Social     municipalities, - including the application of
Investment Fund (FIS) and Rural Development       forensic auditing techniques - be it that capacity
Fund (FDC), and established the Fondo Nacional    constraints do not yet allow a full discharge of
de Inversi6n Productiva y Social (FPS), under the  that role. Improved access to information will
administration of the Unified Directorate of      help civil society in general and Organizaciones
Funds (DUF) and issued a Supreme Decree on        Territoriales  de  Base  (OTBs),  Municipal
the National Compensation Policy that defines     Councils and Vigilance Committees in particular.



- 7 -
Improving  the Institutional and Regulatory           from  and direct spending by Prefecturas; (iii)
Frameworkfor Decentralization                        direct spending by the central government; and
(iv) investment financed by the social investrnent
31.    Issue   #1:      Defining   roles  and        funds. Because of the lack of harmonization, the
responsibilities. One of the key ingredients for      aggregate impact of these various expenditure
successful decentralization is the harmonization     mechanisms   on   poverty   reduction   in
of responsibilities,  authority, resources  and      municipalities is unclear. As presently designed,
accountability   across  different  levels  of       the  concurrence  of these  four mechanisms
government.   Unfortunately, the Government          conveys confusing institutional signals.  Thus,
does not yet have in place a fully integrated and    expectations   of   direct  investments  and
comprehensive policy which fulfills these basic      discretionary transfers undermine local fiscal
requirements  for  efficient  decentralization.      discipline and discourage local fiscal effort'. The
Municipalities have not yet developed into truly     continued dependence of communities and local
autonomous   political   entities   with   full      governments on highly discretionary transfers
accountability  and  responsibility  to  their       and   direct  expenditures  by  the   central
residents, and Prefecturas have simultaneously       government and Prefecturas makes them  less
played   a  dual,  inconsistent  role  as  a         responsive and accountable to each other. Under
deconcentrated arm of the central government on      the present arrangements, fiscal dependency is
the   one   hand   and   a   semi-autonomous          intimately  tied  to  vulnerability  to  political
representative of regional political interests on the  influence  by  national political parties  and
other. Prefecturas consistently under-spend the       government coalitions. The existence of certain
fairly  large  amount of budgetary  resources         legal mechanisms, which are meant for social
allocated to them  to take care of their proper       control  of  municipal  governments  (e.g.,
regional responsibilities  and  yet engage  in       "constructive censure vote" and the senate's
financing or co-financing of municipal initiatives    suspension of transfers), often allow  national
which are legally not under their responsibility.    partisan  considerations to  predominate  local
The central government, which in theory has the      priorities through the co-optation of municipal
authority  to  reign   in  the  Prefecturas'         and community-level actors. Most importantly,
discretionary spending, lacks the actual political   controls on  municipal borrowing  based  on
power to fully control Prefecturas' behavior. For    creditworthiness are undermined as Prefecturas
their part, many municipalities are either too       with access to government credit have provided
small or plagued by a low level of institutional     funds to  non-creditworthy  municipalities  on
development. Although the current institutional      many occasions.
weaknesses of many municipalities could be a
reason for Prefecturas to take on important           33.    Issue #3: Lack of transparency in public
concurrent responsibilities to  supplement the       fund allocation and the transition to formula-
weak    municipal   capacities,  *Prefecturas        driven earmarked transfers. Critical to ensuring
themselves  suffer  from   high   levels  of
politicization in their management, and extremely    9  The  share  of  own-source  revenues  varies
weak administrative capacities.                       considerably according to the population size of the
32.    Issue #2: Clarifying intergovernmental        municipality: on average, for municipalities with more
fscal relations. The ambiguous assignment of         than  50,000  inhabitants,  own-source  revenues
responsibilities across the three levels of public  represent about 50 percent of the municipality's total
responsibilities across the three levels of public   revenues, while  those  with  less than  15,000
administration is mirrored and accentuated by the     inhabitants, the share is less than 5 percent. This
existence of several uncoordinated mechanisms        points  to  a  high  level  of  dependence  on
to channel public resources to municipalities,       intergovernmental fiscal transfers as well as the
including: (i) the current distribution scheme of    disparity in the tax base of municipalities and the lack
municipal per capita investment; (ii) transfers       of incentive to mobilize own-source revenues.



transparency and a depolitization  of Bolivia's    of the Directorio Unico de Fondos (DUF), to
intergovermental fiscal transfer system will be a  finance the National Compensation Policy (NCP).
tgansition  from   discretionary  transfers  to    The NCP is designed to provide a common policy
municipalities (from  central government and        umbrella under which to ensure consistency, in
often through the Prefecturas) towards a system    terms of distribution and equalization objectives,
of non-discretionary, formula-driven earmarked     among the govedmgent's many atomized subsidy
oransfers (see Box 1).  Though Govenment           programns and projects. The NCP will help ensure
commitieni to such    b an pproach was codified in  consistency of purpose and transparency among
ithe Law  of Popular Participation, significant    all  intergovermental   matching  grants  to
investt ent resources continue to be transferred   municipalities.
through largely discretionary channels. This is
especially true of the FIS, but also - albeit to a  35.   Issue #4: Poor  access to information
lesser extent - ofbthe FDC. The FIS is primarily   about   local  and  community  development
menu-driven, with little or no delegation of       programs. In Bolivia, local communities often
functions under the project cycle to communities   have  little  access  to  inforel ation  about
or local goveenments.   Top-down  project          government programs for local and community
selection and engineer-driven project preparation  development and have little, if any, recourse for
prevent   citizens'   participation   in  the      raising complaints to central govemnment. Tis,
deterrnmination of the volume and targets of FIS   of course, is a hindrance to the full realization of
investioent resources.                             popular participation through the OTBs and
Vigilance    Committees,   two    important
34.       The govement has taken bold strides in  mechanisms  created   under  the   Popular
recent months towards the development of a         Participation Law. Resolving poor access to
transparent   and    rational   system    of       inforenation involves not only a   regular flow of
intergoversmental  transfers,  including  the      relevant information from Govenment's end, but
combination of two existing funds, the FIS and     also broad-based information strategies -such as
FDeC, into  the  Fondo Nacional de Inversiln       TV/radio spots, town criers- and communication
Productiva y Social (FPS), under the supervision   means to effectively reach out to the majority of



-9-
the (poor) population who neither read nor speak  (v) approve the operational manuals of the FPS,
Spanish. Women's organizations need to be a          addressing key issues including resource
particular target in this respect.                   allocation  eligibility  criteria, processing
procedures,  and   safeguard   policies,
36.   Issue  #5:  Ambiguous  and  weak              including those relating to environmental
accountability of the public sector. Existing laws   and social aspects of projects.
and regulations do not specify in a clear and
unequivocal manner what the respective roles and  38.   Key  to  the   rationalization   of
responsibilities of each of the levels of the public  intergovernmental fiscal relations will be the
administration are based upon the subsidiarity  elimination of the Prefectura as an alternative
principle.   Furthermore, overall Government    lender to non-creditworthy municipalities. FNDR
investment  activities  including  the  social  has committed, through its operational manual
development funds are not entirely operated in a  adopted as a condition of the PSAC program, to
transparent manner. The same applies to public  eliminate lending to Prefecturas except for those
procurement. Internal and external audits are as  few activities for which Prefecturas are directly
yet inadequate. Public accountability on proper  responsible, including departmental rural roads
distribution   and  effectiveness  of  public   and rural electrification. Reports and studies
investments is wanting as information on them is  produced to meet the requirements of the PSAC
inadequate. Government will address all these   will be published and broadly disseminated so as
vital accountability aspects in the context of this  to adequately inform  a systematic process of
PSAC.                                           consultation with respect to potential changes to
the legal and institutional framework for
37.   Government strategy and PSAC support.     decentralization. A strong focus on the views and
The Government has reaffirmed its intention to  experience of poor and excluded communities
maintain the unitary structure of the state. Within  and people will be ensured. Methods to solicit
that context, and as benchmarks for the initial  those views will be designed into the studies and
stages of the PSAC program directly related to  consultation processes.
Issues #1, #2, and #3, Government will:
39.   In addition, Government has issued a
(i)  undertake studies and consensus building    policy letter committing to the rationalization of
activities and prepare draft legislation to  overall investment activities, including donor-
clarify the respective roles, responsibilities,  financed activities, and presented a plan for
and intergovernmental financial relations of  implementation. Government has absorbed the
all government levels based on the principle  roles of the existing social development funds,
of subsidiarity;                            FIS and FDC, with the newly-established Fondo
Nacional de Inversi6n Productiva y Social, under
(ii) commit to  the  rationalization  of the    the administration of DUF, and finalized an
Government's overall investment program,    operational manual for the newly established fund
including donor-financed activities;        to address all aspects of the project cycle and
transfer mechanisms  and  formulae.   The
(iii) enact a sector-by sector compensation policy  operational manual includes detailed procedures
defining   cofinancing  (relative   price)  on environmental management. As a condition of
mechanisms;                                 the second tranche of the credit, Government will
further refine and finalize the sector-by-sector
(iv) establish the FPS, absorbing the functions of  compensation and cofinancing policy.
the FIS and FDC, to create a single window
for intergovernmental transfers within the  40.   Equally important, the PSAC supports
National Compensation Policy; and           the operationalization of the new matching grant
"compensation" policy that will transform current



- 10-
social investment funds into formula-driven       interpretation of financial decisions and
matching grants targeted to investment programs    performance in a manner which enables
with poverty reduction objectives. The policy      ordinary  citizens  to  understand  the
will be based on a clear, transparent allocation   consequences of such decisions;
formula and will include explicit compensation
goals for the whole array of intergovernmental  *  special  quarterly  print  editions  and
fiscal arrangements.  An important subsidiary      radio/television broadcasts of relevant data
goal of the new  compensation policy is to         and analyses in local languages (where
subordinate  the  discretionary  spending  by      relevant);
Prefecturas to the clearly specified policy goals
for poverty reduction and territorial and inter-  *  quarterly "town crier" visits by selected local
individual equalization. The implementation of     NGOs to extend the dissemination of relevant
the new compensation policy will force sectoral    data and analysis to isolated communities
ministries to decide how much of their resources   (where necessary); and
to channel through the new transfer mechanism,
and thus pave the way for later redefinition of  *  annual workshops for selected representatives
expenditure assignment in each sector.             of civil society and municipal governments to
discuss and formulate appropriate operational
41.   To address the paucity of on-the-ground     responses to such data and analyses.
knowledge about Government- and donor-funded
local development programs (Issue #4), the     Such a broad-based communication strategy will
Government has proposed to develop a campaign  ensure that the population as a whole, and poor
to continuously disseminate information on      men and women in particular, will be aware of
programs for local and community development,  the substantive intent and actual performance of
especially those managed by FPS and FNDR.      programs to support municipal infrastructure
The information will be made available in      investment.
Spanish and Bolivia's indigenous languages,
while dissemination will be done by various    42.   Improving      transparency      and
means,  including  workshops  for  special     accountability  through the incorporation  of
community groups to be organized with the      fiduciary management benchmarks in the PSAC.
assistance  of  credible  organizations  with  Integral to the design of the PSAC and consistent
experience at the grassroots level.   As a     with the approach that IDA has taken in engaging
benchmark for the initial stage of this PSAC, the  Bolivia in a public sector-wide dialogue on
Government will provide a detailed plan for    improving fiduciary transparency, the credit's
carrying out the dissemination of information  tranche benchmarks relating  to the fiduciary
discussed before and assess its impact through  framework will comprise: (a) IDA's new rules on
surveys to be conducted throughout the country.  the fiduciary framework for Adjustment Lending
Specific actions to be included in the program  which measure the degree of reliance which can
include:                                       be placed on the government wide systems and
leads to a program to address major deficiencies;
*  technical assistance to municipalities that  and (b) specific benchmarks for the two Funds
lack sufficient administrative capacity to  which will be supported through the program.
meet minimum transparency requirements
and, if necessary, preparation and publication  43.   IDA's position on a fiduciary framework
of required information;                    of adjustment lending can be taken from the
Operational Core Service (OCS) and Poverty
*  training of local newspaper, radio, television,  Reduction and Economic Management (PREM)
and selected NGO staff in the analysis and  Network Proposal of August 2000 which states



- 11 -
that this framework  starts with  a sound      contributed to meeting targeted fiscal deficit and
knowledge  of  the  borrower's  financial      public debt goals. The reporting of expenditure
management arrangements and an appreciation of  and of the state of the financial position of the
the risks they pose to the Bank. This information  public sector, however, was not considered
is taken into account in deciding levels of    effective or transparent and was attributed to the
adjustment lending set in the CAS and in the   tardy and erroneous coding of expenditures, the
design of individual adjustment operations which,  unreconciled assets balances, and the absence of
in addition to their principal goal, should support  the report of an independent auditor on the
policy reform and institutional changes needed to  figures reported.
address significant weaknesses reported in public
sector financial management.                   47.   PSAC medium term benchmarks. In the
medium term, Government will finalize and enact
44.   Bolivia's Fiduciary Framework. Both a    revised and/or new  legal instruments clearly
Country  Procurement  Assessment  Review       defining the roles and responsibilities of each of
(CPAR) and  Country  Financial Adequacy        the levels of public administration based upon the
Assessment (CFAA) have been prepared for       work undertaken during the initial phase of the
Bolivia and provide a detailed account of the  PSAC. To ensure the successful implementation
fiduciary controls in place in the country. In both  of a formula-driven cofinancing policy for
cases serious deficiencies are identified which are  transfers which target both poverty and the
being addressed through initiatives underway,  Government's sectoral priorities, Government
namely  the  Financial Decentralization  and   will enact a revised cofinancing policy based on
Accountability  (ILACO)  Project  and  the     the plans prepared prior to the initial tranche, will
Institutional Reform Project (IRP).  Both the  ensure the adequate funding of the FPS, and will
ILACO Project and the IRP develop vital means  establish a reporting system on the achievement
to modernize the State apparatus through, among  of sectoral objectives to facilitate a policy
others,  automated,  transparent  financial    dialogue with IDA  and other donors at the
management and control systems (i.e. SIGMA)    sectoral level.
and by developing an incentive and remuneration
system which help create a merit based civil   48.   As a result of the Bolivia CFAA, the
service at all levels of government.           proposed benchmarks for measuring adequate
government financial management have to be
45.   The elements of financial management     incorporated as the medium-term benchmarks in
which must be in place to provide the minimum  the PSAC:
assurance to the Bank are comprehensive
Government  timely  financial  statements      *  by  January  2003, acceptable  financial
supported by the independent verification of       statements will have been produced for the
integrity  by the CGR  in addition  to the         central Government, FNDR, and FPS;
presentation of the audited statements of the
Central Bank. The benchmarks for the initial   *  by January 2003 and through the end of the
phases of the PSAC include the initiation and      PSAC, public expenditure data will be
expansion of the implementation of the SIGMA       available to the public, derived from formal
system  for financial management throughout        and  verifiable  records  produced  using
Bolivia's decentralized government structure.      SIGMA;
46.   The Bolivia CFAA  found that much        *  by January 2003, and on an annual basis
progress has been made including an impressive     thereafter, an annual audit report on the
legal framework for financial administration in    administration of the central Government
the public sector and   successful financial
management of public sector funds which



- 12 -
with a specific opinion on the statement of  *  the design and issuance of standard bidding
budget execution will be prepared; and,         documents and forms of agreements;
*  the establishment of a national accreditation
as part of the ongoing monitoring and           system for public procurement staff;
evaluation efforts, the pursuit and recovery of  *  the creation and enactment of specific local
damages to the State from  malfeasance          standards for selection of consultants;
alleged by the CGR will be measured, as will  *  the establishment of a national regulatory
disclosure of the effect of the CGR findings    agency of govemmental procurement;
and operational audits.                      *  strengthening the ex post role of the Office
49.   In addition, specific benchmarks related     Comptroller in public procurement and
to fiduciary reporting of FNDR and FPS have        contracting; and,
been  included  in  the  program   design.      *  strengthening the coordinating role of the
Specifically, external auditing and compliance     Ministry of Finance's Office of Standards for
with Bolivia's Bank Superintendency guidelines     implementation of the Action Plan.
for reserves have been incorporated in the
operational manuals for FNDR, the approval of   Earcing        Commnainy iParoicipaon,
... > . . , , ....particularly of women and indigenous peoples
which  is  a  condition  for initial tranche    in municipal affairs and expenditure decisions
disbursement.
51.   Issue #6: Community groups, especially
50.   The overall PSAC has been designed        th  or   oe  n  ndgnu  epe,lc
with the results of the recently completed CPAR  the poor, women and indigenous peoples, lack
in  mind  and  aims  to  build  upon  and       proper means to effectively participate in local
institutionalize the recommendations of the     affairs and exert social control  A prim.
CPAR     . Specifically,   benchmarks   for     objective of the Popular Participation Law
implemnttino.teP Specficy  ben  ks fr           (LPP)  was  to  substantially  increase  the
implementatio othC       have be incled         participation  of Bolivian  citizens in  local
throughout  the PAprgam and are attached        community and local government decision-
asAnnex5Inthe    initinmenthal sitaes tof:the   making. Particular attention has been given to
the establishment of: (i) participatory planning
methods at the municipal government level and
B&updateilcal procurement)standards (Normas  (ii) legally effective recognition of indigenous
Bissicas);                                   communities.  However, certain community
groups, especially the poor, women and
*  enact modern public procurement legislation;  indigenous peoples lack  proper means to
and                                          effectively participate in local affairs and exert
social control.
*  issue a code of ethics for mandatory use in
public procurement.                          52.   The   Government's   Manual  for
participatory municipal development planning
And to make progress on:                        emphasizes the importance of the involvement of
as many people as possible and provides
*  a  program   of  institutional  capacity     guidelines as to how to achieve that objective.
strengthening   of  public  entities  in     The inclusion of poor and indigenous people,
procurement, at the 3 levels of government;  particularly those living in isolated communities,
*  the implementation of SICOES (Integrated     women, and migrants, is an enormous challenge
System  for  Government  Procurement);       and to date has only been partially achieved.
SIGMA and EBMS (Electronic Bidding
Management System);



- 13 -
53.   In addition to creating hundreds of new   common interest. Indeed, a recent press article10
municipalities, the LPP gave legal recognition to  highlighted the inability of many mayors to fully
over 12,000  territorially-based  organizations  involve OTBs in the planning process as well as
(organizaciones territoriales de base / OTBs)    the weak representativity of some Vigilance
which were defined as "peasant communities,      Committees.  The article noted that the many
indigenous   peoples   and    neighborhood      functional organizations which were left at the
associations, organized according to their norms,  margins of the LPP (e.g., the Church, producers'
customs or statutory dispositions "(LPP 1994,    organizations, women's' groups) may need to be
Article 3, I).  Legally registered OTBs have     involved in order to improve the way the law is
jurisdiction over a given territory and have rights  applied. Thus, organizations which represent the
and obligations within municipal governance      interests of ordinary citizens must also be held
including the production  of the Municipal      accountable to those constituents.
Development Plan (PDM) through a participatory
planning process.  OTBs are also collectively    56.   Equally    important    to    such
responsible for co-managing LPP resources as     "empowerment"  of ordinary  people  is the
well as for scrutinizing over use of assets and  demonstration of greater sensitivity to citizen
income assigned to municipality.                demands and demonstrated transparency by local
government officials.  It is difficult-if not
54.   The LPP  also  created another key         impossible-for poor and indigenous people to
community level actor - the Vigilance Committee  participate in legally established mechanisms for
(VC) - which monitors the management of         planning  and  "social controrl  without the
municipal resources. The VC is composed of one   demonstrated  support of local government
representative from  each municipal district as  officials and/or effectively accountable leadership
elected by the OTBs within the district. One of  of civil society organizations.  In particular,
the functions of the VC is to ensure that no more  women's participation has often been perfunctory
than a legally agreed percentage of central      and appropriate mechanisms for promoting this
government transfers are spent on municipal      participation are lacking.
administrative costs.  VCs can also request
independent audits of municipal governments and  57.   The  Government has committed  to
report any irregularities to the Finance Ministry.  developing and adopting participatory planning
procedures which build upon indigenous and
55.   Strengthening  "social control"  (i.e.,   local community planning and conflict resolution
accountability) mechanisms is a necessary but not  procedures. Support for the creation of a GOB
sufficient means to  ensure that poor and       decentralization policy will foster: (i) the free
indigenous people  properly  influence  local   expression of "voice" by poor and indigenous
governments.  Equally important is enhancing     people with respect to public sector decision-
poor and indigenous people's participation in    making; (ii) access by poor and indigenous
local   level   decision-making,   including    people  to  investment resources; and  (iii)
participation in a process that ensures effective  accountability by government at all levels to,
accountability.  The involvement of popular      among others, poor and indigenous people.
organizations, such as OTBs, in participatory    Poverty targeting will be at the core of criteria to
planning and monitoring processes is not in and  be established for the financing of investments
of itself sufficient to achieve this. Although the  through  the National Compensation  Policy.
LPP was based on geographic units of social      Starting from the consensus generated in the
organization, communities also relate to many   National Dialogue over sectoral priorities: (i) the
other forms of organization based onfiunction or  allocation formulas will be based on socially
10 "Las Alcaldias Trabajaron mal?", La Raz6n, 19.10.00.



- 14 -
agreed indicators of population and poverty and   and other civil society groups; and (iv) complaint
(ii) "relative prices" for matching grants will be  mechanisms.
based on poverty and/or access indicators.
61.   Finally, as a condition for the first
58.   Issue #7 The current design for the         tranche release, the Government will approve the
territorial administration  of the State  may     "decreto  reglamentario"  of  the  Law   of
exclude indigenous groups from  administering     Municipalities  in  its  aspects  dealing  with
themselves.   Some  "Territorios de  Origen       mancomunidades (municipal associations). As a
Comunitario" (TOCs) and  other indigenous         condition of disbursement of the second tranche
communities are expressing a concern that their   of the credit, the Government will implement the
voice is not represented within municipalities    decree  and   adjust  municipal  legislation
where other populations dominate the decision-    accordingly.    Thereafter,  the  process  of
making process. Government is being requested    implementation and its impact on poor people's
by these communities to consider re-drawing       participation in urban municipal decision-making
municipal boundaries so these match more          will be monitored throughout the multi-year
closely with indigenous community patterns of     PSAC program.
settlement.
62.   PSAC medium term benchmarks. In the
59.   Issue #8 Weak citizen participation in      medium term, successful implementation of the
large urban municipalities. Due to a centralized  reform agenda supported through the PSAC will
municipal management structure and inefficient    be measured through benchmarks focused on (i)
territorial administration, citizens, particularly  addressing the adoption of participatory planning
those living in poorer urban areas, do not        procedures, (ii) progress in achieving more
participate in, nor monitor, urban municipal      effective, accountable and  equitable  service
decision-making. The current urban equivalent     delivery at both municipal and departmental
of the rural OTBs, juntas vecinales, are much    levels, and (iii) improving the participation of
weaker and less representative. Stronger citizen  communities in large urban areas, specifically.
participation is vital to sustainable municipal   Progress towards the achievement of these
fiscal reform  and  greater transparency  and     objectives will be key to the continuation of the
accountability.                                   PSAC program.
60.    Government strategy and PSAC support.      C. Improving the Capacity of Decentralized
As benchmarks for the initial tranche of the      Government System to Deliver Local Services
PSAC, Government will present to Congress a
law on the recently completed National Dialogue   63.   Background.  It  will  be  in  the
and present to IDA an acceptable plan to develop  improvement in the delivery of public services to
and implement participatory planning procedures   Bolivia's citizens that the most tangible effects of
which  build  upon  local  and  indigenous        decentralization reforms will be felt. Improving
community decision-making processes. As a         public  service  delivery  requires  both  a
condition  for the  second  tranche  release,     strengthening  of  subnational  governments'
Government will both enact the law  of the        capacity to provide public services as well as an
National Dialogue  and  implement a  plan        increase in the amount and impact of public
including: (i)  "town hall" discussions of the    services that municipalities currently provide. To
Annual Operations Plans (POAs) and their          effectively improve the quantity, quality, and
reformulation; (ii) publication of all municipal  sustainability  of  public  service  provision,
and  prefectural POAs and  their respective       Government has initiated a series of reforms to:
execution; (iii) strengthening of all representative  (a) enhance the access of municipalities to credit
organizations such  as OTB's, Departmental        and provide incentives for responsible borrowing;
Councils, women's organizations, Church groups    (b) facilitate the development of a capital market



- 15 -
for the financing of municipal services and          The basic  severance benefit is payable  on
infrastructure; and  (c) improve  the  existing      retirement, if the staff has not been dismissed in
system of intergovernmental transfers to focus on    the mean time.  It is common for incoming
priority sectors to maximize impact on poverty.      Bolivian mayors to fire many of the employees
appointed by their predecessors.  Part of the
64.    Until recently, none of the laws on           severance  obligations  therefore  consists  of
decentralization and participation have included     obligations to persons already dismissed.  The
explicit provisions on sub-national access to        remainder consists of liabilities to existing staff
credit.   As  a  result, municipal borrowing         that will be due when the staff either retires or is
remained treated in the same way it had been         dismissed. Another 16% of the debt is owed to
since the days of the fully centralized state. In    contractors  and  suppliers, arising  from  the
much the same way as social investment funds         longstanding practice of contracting more than
were  not being  properly  steered  to  favor        can  be  afforded.    Some  of  the  larger
decentralized policy-making, national credit to      municipalities - particularly Cochabamba - also
sub-national governments is channeled in non-        have debt to private banks or outstanding bonds.
transparent ways: specifically, by mixing grants     Except for the bank and bond debt (and the
and credit or granting credits to non-creditworthy   contingent portion of the severance liabilities) the
municipalities.   While the national financial       entire amount is immediately due and payable.
intermediary responsible for channeling credit to
sub-nationals, the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo      67.    Public sector debt The remainder of the
Regional (FNDR), has access to an intercept           debt is owed to various entities of the public
mechanism   through   the   Central  Bank's          sector. Debt to the public sector includes arrears
withholding of municipal coparticipaciones, a        to the national pension systems, housing funds,
number  of  municipalities  find  themselves         and health insurance scheme.  Debt to FNDR
overindebted -  and  unable to  service their        comprise about 16% of the total. Except for the
existing stock of debt - to contractors, suppliers,  debt to FNDR, all this debt is in arrears and is due
and other branches of the Government, including      and payable immediately.
the national pension system.
T' e 2.2: Stock of Muipal M Mbt f 9
Restoring Fiscal Discipline                                                a Eapaps+ EL Alto
Now
Total US$ mil % of Total Due
65.    Issue #9: Restoring creditworthiness to       Banks                       43.7    12%   0.0
overindebted municipalities.  The debt problem       Suppliers / Contractors     58.5    16%   58.5
of the large municipalities is one of liquidity      Severance l Other *        125.8    33%  125.8
rather than solvency. The stock of debt, relative    Subtotal private sector    227.9    61%  184.3
to revenue, is not particularly high. But because    TGN                         53.7    14%   53.7
most of the debt consists of arrears that are        Social Security             32.0      9%   12.0
immediately due and payable, municipalities lack     FNDR                        60.9    16%      0
the cash flow to meet their current obligations.     Taxes                        1.1      0%  1.7.0
Subtotal public sector    147.7    39%   67.4
66.    Private sector debt.  The outstanding         Total                      375.6   100%  251.7
stock of municipal debt (of the nine departmental  * severance debt is overstated due to inclusion of obligations
stock of municipal debt (of the nine departmental    to staff still employed.
capitals and El Alto) is equal to approximately      Data as of Dec 31, 1999.
US$375 million. As shown in Table 2, the largest
component of the debt - one third of the total - is
severance obligations.   Under Bolivian  law,        68.    Strengthening mechanisms for prudent
municipalities are required to provide for the       fiscal management.   Bolivian  public  sector
severance benefits for all municipal employees at    administration at all levels still lacks the uniform
a rate of one month's salary per year of service.    budgeting, accounting, and reporting procedures



- 16-
:,.1;<* ~    ~        Bo 200W0 tti;it t-:fi+The XaPzDb Resti&irucAjigX mentcf00   
Underffthree  ssttgn00qed nOStober S00,0 th Goenmn nn4e000t0t?ks  iEe'0 'ed 'e abu 22  ofAS00 thec;iity0?('s0 det,wi<s'S  and
that~ o ar    needled for   informhich  sharcitwng,    effir*ciento  useot    of (1 investment yfunds  pr iormde
monitorin andevautionofml utn initalficlaentd(ntesm  es thru hcedt and loan) frs  While the  1990.
fiacal     a nagemeei~ nt andother     ofeatures  puli deb  LawofGovernmeth  consitsrofIS l & and ii daa ebet.
ow pedt  hen~sive  derrctralozatin  picy.re  ndrThe  (SAFCO) regpeplie eso   in dbtt theor pbi  eto    eunceptafo
absnceI loa cns-  ist~efnt prceduryescis alof   govenen agnce tovwhirnmont,he instalto  ofowC(cedii
thReconsilingstitupdtionalh   uicplls o fsalst   taxpayrsing M procduthes in iandcapacitie (IC) s  is eupctepat
~~ pt~b/~~$44 initli~~~  O2andsubsequeu~~~yearsan
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
be ~cohe  b~o~ij~ rducitos. iSoe  Tf he                   a     CC       p     A      2000t r heve
tha nt imareo tneede   fosr~  a~info  ntionR   fscahari g et, wfilliena usteady  invrestnen t  eminds pnrovidedecie~
monditorngandevaluation ofmuicpl isa and 203 eeus~ithoue~gh grewdats andav trag nsfers. Whle r thef   1990gn
finacialm anagjemednogo t and otherl featues of  a    Ltaw ofta G%ovemment Condtures, andManag iement~
comre hensivedo     decetavragezatini~ palico.  ThPe  (SAFCOr )  applie  in  theor      to   b servicepa-
currente of cons~ist,entb pr%ofcurretrvnes isaoone 200 (up vemm4 nts, 9)the  overallations wof l rAC-eachf9eo
thnthe basic  institutionl  obs .acls to .ensurng   pwhicedur      nse ind  capacitives  the refinacipgao



- 17 -
governments has proven a challenging task with    bailouts for contractors and suppliers in the
very limited success so far.                     future.
69.   Avoiding the next crisis. A number of       72.    Compliance Measurement. To monitor
measures are in place to prevent a recurrence of  compliance with the overall debt targets, each
the current indebtedness problem. Since 1998, all  municipio is required to send monthly data to
municipal borrowing has been subject to a         Vice Minister of the Treasury and Public Credit
certification process.  Local governments are     (VMTCP) within 10 days of the end of each
required  to  demonstrate  that they  are  in     month. If necessary, VMTCP is authorized to
compliance with the 20/200 ceilings before        send its own inspectors to verify this data. If the
seeking a loan from either the public or private  municipality fails to meet its targets for debt
sector. The Government is relying heavily on      reduction, or contracts new debt while the PRF is
this instrument to control municipal indebtedness  in force (without the expressed authorization of
in the future. While the certification process is  the VMTCP), or fails to provide the required
probably adequate for controlling borrowing from  monitoring information, VMTCP is authorized to
the banking sector (whose loans would have no     exercise several remedies. These include (a)
legal standing without certification), demand side  suspension  of disbursements  of all loans
controls are supplemented by controls on the      contracted through FNDR  or from  external
supply  of credit. Private bank  lending  to     financing; (b) suspension of grants channeled
municipalities is regulated by the Government's  through  FNDR, FPS, FONAMA  and other
office of banking supervision, which is in a      government and international organizations; (c)
position  to  impose  limits on  exposure to      suspension of any remaining disbursements of the
municipal governments and special provisioning    CAF  loan  under the  PRF  program;  (d)
requirements.                                     cancellation  of  the  debt  rescheduled  to
Government agencies and accelerated repayment
70.    The prospects for controlling  future      of the outstanding balance through deductions
liabilities to dismissed public employees has     from coparticipaciones; and (e) notification of
recently improved. Under the new Estatuto del     creditors, the banking  system, chambers of
Funcionario Publico (October 1999), employees     commerce, etc. of the municipality's failure to
contracted after the law went into effect no longer  comply with its agreement.
have the right to traditional severance benefits.
While this will have little immediate impact, as
the existing staff continue to enjoy their former  Strengthening the Financial and Institutional
pension  rights, as  newly  contracted  staff     Capacity  of Municipal  Governments  and
gradually replace "grandfathered" employees, the  Prefectures
municipalities' severance liabilities will decline.
73.   Issue #10: Weak institutional capacity at
71.    While  the  certification  process can    the municipal and departmental levels.  For
restrain borrowing from banks and the FNDR, it   improved  local  service  provision  to  be
is likely to be less effective in controlling growth  sustainable,   municipal   governments  and
in non-bank debt: arrears to suppliers, liabilities  Prefecturas must have the capacity to:
to ex-employees, or debts to the pension systems
or other government agencies. It is the latter,   *  raise local revenues and manage integrated
unfortunately, that account for much of the          financial management systems;
existing stock of overdue debt. To minimize the   *  allocate  resources  more  efficiently  and
moral hazard which has become explicit through       implement projects and programs at the local
the PRF program the Government has agreed to         level;
submit to Congress a sunset-clause to the PRF     *  run their internal organizations; and,
law, which would foreclose the prospect of



- 18-
*  invite and manage the participation of civil  enforce this condition, the municipality will be
society, including the private sector, for the  required  to  sign  an  agreement with  the
provision of local services.                 Government in which it will commit to the PAI
and the specific actions and targets contained
To address the above issues, FPS and FNDR will  therein.   Continued  access  to  investment
require, as a condition of access to investment  financing provided by FPS and FNDR will be
funds, that municipalities prepare and carry out  conditioned to a satisfactory implementation of
an Institutional Reform Plan (PAI) (see Box 3)  the PAI according to the specific actions and
and institutional capacity strengthening plans.  targets envisaged in it.
These latter plans will be based upon the results
of an evaluation which will study the effects of  Improving access to credit investment financing
past capacity strengthening measures taken at the  and development of a municipal credit market.
national, prefectural, and municipal levels.
76.   Issue  #11:  Limited  availability  of
74.   The PAI aims to improve the fiscal        municipal credit financing. In addition to low
sustainability of municipalities by addressing  financial and institutional capacity to manage the
issues in local revenue mobilization, recurrent  delivery of local services, municipalities in
expenditure levels, and financial management.    Bolivia are faced with a highly restricted credit
To this end, PAls will work with two sets of key  market. In the medium and long term, improving
indicators for each group of municipalities.    the delivery of local public services hinges not
Based on an initial financial and institutional  only upon overcoming  those financial and
diagnostic of the municipality, the PAI will    institutional capacity difficulties but upon the
include specific targets in connection with said  development of a municipal credit market.
indicators in addition to the specific actions to  Creditworthy municipal governments and other
achieve them. Preparation of the PAI will follow  providers of local public services should be able
a methodology already developed by FNDR and     to finance their capital investment projects
will cover three  main  areas, namely: (i)      through borrowing.
modernization of the fiscal apparatus, including
the updating of municipal cadastres, development  77.   Today, access  to  credit for  local
and  implementation  of tax  collection  and     investments is mostly limited to FNDR, the
enforcement mechanisms, and municipal staff      Government's credit agency for regional and
training; (ii) administrative reforms, including  local development. While this situation can be
those  required  for the  implementation  of     explained by the lack of depth in Bolivia's
integrated  financial  management  systems,     financial markets and the relatively recent history
development of  instruments  for  planning,      of municipal government in Bolivia, the way
budgeting   and   execution   of  municipal      municipal credit has been managed to date is also
expenditures, and development of monitoring and  to be blamed. FNDR enjoys practically no risk as
evaluation  systems; and (iii) private sector   its loans to municipalities are guaranteed by a
participation, including studies to determine the  mechanism  through  which  revenue-sharing
feasibility of alternatives for the provision of  transfers are intercepted by the Central Bank.
municipal  services  such  as  solid  waste      Through this mechanism  that in Bolivia is
management, slaughterhouses, water supply, and   referred to as "debito automdtico", the Central
transport terminals, among others, as well as the  Bank debits the "revenue-sharing account" of the
preparation and launching of pilot projects.     municipality and credits FNDR. The use of such
a guarantee mechanism and FNDR's virtual
75.   As  indicated  above, the  PAI will       monopoly in the municipal credit business has
constitute a condition for access to investment  contributed to the lack of regulation on the
financing provided by FPS and FNDR.  To          creditworthiness  of municipal govemments,
caused FNDR to overlook the need for risk



- 19-
Sol 3: listitutional Reform Plans (PAI)
In Bolivas decentralized government system, municipalities are responsible for managng local developmett, incluing
revee genrtion throuh taxes and the planning and execution of local investment, The key taxes levied by local
govermments include property tax and local commercial xes (patente de ind#sra y comecio). Them is amplk eidence that
municipties are not realizng the full potential of their tax base. The histitutionat Reform Ptis~ in Spiis Planw4 de Ajuste
InstMckmat (PAs) reprsaftthe lynchpin of a concerted effort to improve local re 0bM&i_tlortai40'     on of
municipw expenditure.
The PAls includc a diagnostic of the institutional and financial management ofthe mnunicipality and a dretwation plan for
itrvg th tnalaitysadinistratn and f-scal managmntS. The key dianstic :i6  acu( #i    of he
overall baseline ft-ancial situation of each municipality with financal projeions (3 aid 5 yearf'tw    and
reyemies. municipal debt,. and related fsc  indicators; (b) recommendations for ittta   reforms adt-fh i-pact of such
reforms ott the llscal sustinabilty of the municipality: and (c) instuttional development r s rsupport the
municipality in achieving its financial goals. PAls have already been prepared for 120 municipalities acorint a sandard
metho:ology de.eloped b. .NM
Specifically, PAls will include two sets of key indicators to monitor the perfnnance io    Soyermoents, separted into 3
c o based on population according to the 1992 censusO, in improvingfiscal managmnt, beow.
STRUCrTJRA  IND)CATOR
Ta-xes Per aanvestnent Per Capita                         Munica        t_ s
(US$/pcrson>         ~(05/person)                (o  e ~0ihb
G  1            ~~~~~20                        50 
Oro 7p   I                                        40                                77
Gro3            ~~~~~4 25                                                    20     '
FISCAL MANA00M4tWJ INDICATORS                      _____
Group I
Compla wh B etary Allocation for Current Exnditure
Fl ai gD ebt               _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _             0
Debt ServtceI Current Account Balance                         400_____
The PAIS WiJ be completed by each municipality iith technical assistance from FNIR, dity   r b       Inter
Amict a D1veloment Bank  DtI).
J(Group   being large municipaities with populations greater tha 200,00*, Group 2 with populaionsbetween 30.000 and
200,000, and Group 3 being municipalities with less than 30.000 inhabitants)
assessment, and restrained the participation of        requirements associated with such certificates.
private banks.  More recently, the Ministry of         Since after these regulations were enacted, FNDR
Finance   enacted  regulation   on   municipal         has allowed Prefecturas to borrow for municipal
indebtedness that mandates municipalities to           investments when a municipality is unable to
obtain a "certificate of indebtedness"Il as a          obtain the certificate of indebtedness. This has
condition  for borrowing, while the Banking            contributed to a unclear relationship between
Superintendency  issued  new  capital reserve          Prefecturas  and  municipal governments  and
exacerbates the lack of clarity in the division of
responsibilities between these two levels of
However well intentioned, this type of certificate  Bolivia's public administration.
may create more "moral hazard" inasmuch as it could
be interpreted as an implicit guarantee of the National  78.    While from  an economic viewpoint it
Government.                                            would be desirable to move immediately towards



- 20 -
a market-based municipal credit system, it would  to develop Bolivia's municipal credit market. A
be impractical to do so. Rather, the approach is  buoyant, efficient and competitive FNDR  is
to help create the institutional and financial  required to help finance municipal investments to
conditions that will assist in the development of a  improve the level of services to local residents,
municipal credit market gradually over the      especially the poor.
medium and longer term. The Government's
continued access to concessional finance at the  80.   The above  measures, coupled  with
international level, the low level of municipal  authorizing the use of the existing revenue
finances, and the relatively unsophisticated level  intercept mechanism by lenders other than FNDR
of financial markets in Bolivia do not hold     and the disclosure of information on municipal
promise for the development of a market-based   borrowings are necessary for bringing more
municipal credit system in the short run. Given  objectivity and transparency to the present
this situation, FNDR would still be required to  structure of municipal credit and laying the
play an important role in the financing of      groundwork for the development of a deeper
municipal governments and Prefecturas.  It is   market.
therefore paramount that FNDR start to adopt
uniform lending policies that: (i) reflect the need  81.   Government strategy and PSAC support.
for an appropriate level of risk assessment and  The Government has initiated a significant
management; (ii) eliminate Prefecturas as a     adjustment  effort  to  restore  currently
source   of  credit  for  non-creditworthy      overindebted municipalities to creditworthiness
municipalities;  and,  (iii)  support  the      through a rescheduling of existing municipal
Govemment's policies objectives of increasing   debt. The Government's workout plan, the
efficiency, transparency and accountability of the  Programa de Readecuacic5n Financiera (PRF) is
decentralized   public   administration    by   authorized under Supreme Decree 25737 of
implementing measures to ensure adequate levels  April, 2000 and regulated under ministerial
of transparency in procurement and financial    resolution 343 of May, 2000. In essence, the PRF
management,  and  safeguard  policies  and      consists of individual debt workouts with
practices for the environmental and social aspects  municipalities,  in  which  the  Government
of its lending operations.                      reschedules debt in exchange for fiscal reforms,
either through a debt auction or through
79.   If FNDR is to continue to provide credit  repayment with a uniform discount rate (see Box
financing to municipalities and Prefecturas, it will  2). The Government has obtained a loan from the
need to expand its capital base.  Preliminary   CAF to partially finance the PRF. At the same
estimates are that FNDR would need about        time, Government has committed to updating the
US$80 million over the next four years to cover  existing regulatory framework for municipal
the potential demand for investment financing,  indebtedness, which imposes limits on the stock
according to FNDR's existing project pipeline   of debt and aggregate debt servicing, which does
and demand studies. Given that FNDR depends     not adequately measure the capacity of a
on the National Treasury and loans from bilateral  municipality to take on debt (see Box 4). In
and multilateral agencies for its funding, the  coordination with the Bank and the IMF, the
Government would need to agree with FNDR on     Government has initiated the use of the Support
the level of funding that would be required and  for  Improvement  in   Governance   and
the sources of such funding for its normal      Management (SIGMA) system for both national
operation over the next few years. It would also  and subnational government reporting to enhance
be important for FNDR to start preparing a      transparency in subnational fiscal matters.
corporate strategic plan to define the approach the
entity should be taking with regard to funding  82.   As condition of the disbursement of the
sources, lending instruments and organizational  first tranche of the PSAC, The Government:
arrangements in view of the impending reforms



- 21 -
*  has signed agreements satisfactory to IDA    85.   The Government has realized that the
with La Paz, Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, and     only way to strengthen the extension of credit to
Tarija, and prepared draft agreements with   municipalities is by clearly separating credit from
Trinidad, which include a mechanism for the  grants and subordinating credit to market signals.
apportionment of relief to suppliers and     The PSAC  will support the Government's
contractors either through auction or equal  initiatives to adopt clear credit regulations and
reimbursement with a uniform discount for    close monitoring and auditing mechanisms, and is
all creditors;                               currently   preparing   legal   rules   and
*  has included in the FNDR operations manual   implementation plans to this effect.
appropriate risk assessment mechanisms and
their use; and                               86.   To  address  the  issues  of  weak
*  has introduced a "sunset-clause" to the PRF  institutional capacity the national, prefectural, and
law, limiting eligibility to the PRF to those  municipal levels, benchmarks for the initial credit
municipalities overindebted as of December   of the PSAC have measure the Government's
31, 2000.                                    progress towards meeting its objectives of; (i)
better  planning   and  implementation   of
83.   For the second tranche of the Credit, the  decentralized development; (ii) increasing the
Government will sign agreements satisfactory to  share of locally raised resources and managing
IDA with the remaining municipalities in the    financial affairs better; (iii) better internal
PRF, and implementation of the PRF will be      management, and (iv) better participation of civil
measured as a benchmark for the continuance of   society, including the private sector.   The
the program beginning in the second tranche.     benchmarks include specific measures to:
84.   The  Government's  refinancing   of       *  prepare  and  implement  a   capacity
existing  municipal  debt  for  overindebted        strengthening plan addressed to the three
municipalities while strengthening the availability  levels  of Government, based  on  the
of infoipation  on  municipal indebtedness          evaluation of capacity strengthening efforts
includes  provisions  for ensuring  that the        undertaken to date;
"medicine" of refinancing is appropriately bitter.  *  ensure the institutionalization of PAI; and,
Creditors who extended loans, whether in the     *  link the completion of PAls with access
form  of direct financing or through supplier       investment financing by FPS and FNDR.
credits, will participate in open and transparent
debt auctions, with those creditors willing to   The resulting national, prefectural and municipal
accept the greatest discount on original loans  institutional capacity program  will strengthen
being the first to be reimbursed. To reduce the  decentralized   service   delivery   planning,
moral hazard  implicit in  any  rescheduling     implementation, and monitoring throughout the
program, the inclusion of a sunset clause into the  entire reform process.
PRF as a condition of the first tranche
disbursement, makes clear the signal from        87.   The Government has clearly signaled that
Government that access to the PRF is not        the future sustainability of the decentralized
indefinite.  The  PSAC   will  support  the     structure of the Government is based, in part, on
Government's rescheduling program and, in the   the development of a robust subnational credit
short term, in absence of a sophisticated capital  system for municipal borrowing. Through the
market for municipal finance,  will assist in    Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2), the
strengthening the existing control mechanisms on  Government has committed to developing a
municipal indebtedness.                          competitive market for municipal credit and has
undertaken specific policy reforms aimed at
rationalizing the existing mechanisms for



- 22 -
subnational borrowing as a condition of the first  V. THE WORLD BANK STRATEGY
tranche of the PSAC. These targeted policy
reforms include:                                A. IDA Graduation and Allocation
*  Finalizing an Operational Manual for FNDR,   89.   The proposed amount of the World Bank
which includes lending procedures as well as  Group's FY02-03 lending program for Bolivia
detailed safeguard policies and practices   depends largely on three factors: IDA graduation,
addressing, inter alia, environmental and   IDA allocation and IBRD creditworthiness. The
social aspects of lending.                  CAS discussed by the Board on June 16, 1998
(IDA/R98-79 / IFC/R98-115) envisaged Bolivia
*  Eliminating the Prefectura as a source of   graduating from  IDA  by end-FY02. In the
credit to non-creditworthy municipalities by  context of the Asian and Russian crises and the
limiting FNDR lending to Prefecturas to     drop in capital flows to the region, Bolivia's
investment projects which are the exclusive  performance has been satisfactory.  However,
responsibility of the Prefectura.           economic growth has been lower than expected,
and the increased reliance on private capital has
*  Confirming the legality of the use of the   not materialized. In addition, the enhanced HIPC
existing revenue intercept mechanism  by    program (not envisaged in the FY98 CAS) is
lenders other than FNDR.                    expected to constrain Bolivia's access to non-
concessional funds in the next 2-3 years. Bolivia
88.   PSA4C medium term benchmarks. Over       has been a good IDA performer and its GDP per
the duration of the PSAC, the compliance of the  capita has been above the IDA operational cut-off
major municipalities with the debt restructuring  level for the last two years. A  full IBRD
agreements will be monitored as benchmarks, and  creditworthiness analysis is being completed and
future credits will be conditioned on acceptable  is expected to have implications for the schedule
performance with the agreed-upon workouts. The  of graduation and the related transition from IDA
program will also be conditioned upon:         to IBRD lending. Preliminary results suggest a
blend status for FY02-03, with some likelihood
*  Progress towards the implementation of a    (under current volatile  conditions)  of an
national strategy for national, prefectural and  extension of (a gradually hardening) blend status
municipal capaitey strengthening; pectrlad  into 2004 and possibly 2005. The issue of IDA
cmuniipalcapacwity strthenrequiremeng  forPgraduation will be addressed in the upcoming
*  compliance   ith    eent f or PAssGAS Progress Report and reviewed in detail in
completion for investment fund access;      the next CAS.
*  the completion of pilots for civil society
participation, including private sector, in the  B. The  World  Bank  Group  Assistance
delivery of public services;                Program for FY02 - FY03
*  the implementation of the Governments plan
for the development of a municipal credit   90.   The proposed overall lending program
market linked to FNDR's strategic plan;     (see Table 3) for the FY02-03 period is expected
*  the establishment of a pilot rediscounting  to be approximately US$230 million.  This
window for municipal loans in NAFIBO;       program responds to the changes in Bolivia and is
*  FNDR's compliance with its established      geared towards supporting Bolivia's efforts on
financing policies contained in its operations  implementing its PRSP. The proposed lending
manual (including safeguard policies); and,  prograrn will be anchored in a Poverty Reduction
*  the successful implementation of FNDR's      Strategy Credit (PRSC) that will serve as our
strategic plan, including the rollout of new  main vehicle to continue our support of the public
lending instruments.                        sector reform agenda, initiated with the proposed
PSAC. Ensuring that the decentralization process



- 23 -
works smoothly is central to Bolivia's poverty    procurement and financial management. Though
reduction  strategy  that places the  primary     the CFAA and CPAR have been completed and
responsibility for leading the anti-poverty fight  their recommendations are being implemented, it
squarely on the shoulders of the municipalities.  will take some time until full implementation is
The PRSC will be complemented with relatively     completed. In addition, Bolivia is entering into an
small and innovative investments projects, in     electoral cycle. Building upon the specific reform
addition to a large roads project. The scope of the  agenda embodied in the PRSP, PRSC I, currently
PRSC, as well as the specific  investment         planned for delivery around January 2003, would
operations, will be defined in close collaboration  fully integrate the decentralization reform agenda
with  both  the Government and the donor          as a key thematic area in the series of PRSCs (see
community once the final PRSP is presented.       para. 104). It is evident that as Bolivia continues
to deepen the process of decentralization, it will
91.    The CAS discussed at the Board in 1998    still  require  support  for  promoting  key
included a proposed Municipal Development II     investments at the local level. The Bank will
project. As a response to the Government's        assist on these efforts through the Decentralized
policy reform initiative related to the financing of  Investment Project, planned for FY03.
local investments and decentralization of the
public administration, the operation has evolved    Tabie 3: Proposed FY01 - FY03 Lending Program
into the proposed PSAC. The approach to support                  (US$ million)
the Government's reform agenda with such an       FY0I
,            ~~~~Decentralization PsAc                60
instrument is consistent with IDA's strategy to   Indigenous LIL                           5
align support for policy reform consistent with   Health Reform II (APL)                  35
the Government's poverty reduction strategy in a                          Subtotal FYO    100
programmatic manner. The proposed PSAC for        FY02
Decentralization forms one of several prongs of   Roads Rehabilitation                    85
Bank financial support to Bolivia's Poverty       Structural Adjustment Credit            15
Reduction Strategy in the revised CAS that is     Rural Electricity & IT                  23
under preparation: a) the Decentralization PSAC   Land Administration. (supplemental)      7
-  designed  to  help  establish  an  effective                           Subtotal FY02    130
framework for working across different levels of  FY03
PRSC I                                  50
government in the provision of essential services,  Institutional Reform II (APL)         25
especially to the poor; b) the Institutional Reform  Decentralized Investment             25
Project - an APL designed as a public sector                              Subtotal FY03    100
reform program with the objective of improving
the management aspects of government agencies;                      TOTAL FY01 - FY03    330
c) a small Structural Adjustment Credit to support
adequate mechanisms of social control that would  93.   Although      progress     on    the
allow civil society to monitor progress in the    institutionalization of the roads authority agency
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy; and,   d) the       (SNC) has not materialized as expected, the Bank
forthcoming series of PRSCs, designed to bring    Group will remain engaged and ready to move
together and build upon the three initiatives     forward with the Roads Rehabilitation and
above and help realign all donor assistance       Maintenance  operation  once  the  required
behind the Poverty Reduction Strategy. All four   institutional changes take place. There is broad
prongs of the assistance program are expected to  consensus among  the donors for such  an
be supported by other donors.                     approach, in light of the importance roads play in
Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy. Such an
92.    The Bank Group recognizes that its         operation should be seen as one of high risk but
ability to progress in programmatic lending       with potentially very high rewards, and the size
depends upon  Bolivia's ability  to  improve      and scope of this operation will be contingent



- 24 -
upon the degree of institutionalization at SNC.  96.   The proposed US$230 million lending
Together with other donors, and in consultation  for FY02-03 faces risks that could substantially
with  civil society, IDA  is  supporting  a     lower the actual lending volume. For example,
comprehensive    1 0-year   public   sector     progress on the institutionalization of the SNC
modernization program through the first phase of  could fall short of an expected minimum, or only
the Institutional Reform Project I (APL), which is  could only justify the preparation of a smaller
currently supporting reforms in a number of pilot  loan. Also, PRSC I could be placed in jeopardy if
agencies such as customs and the internal revenue  insufficient progress has been made in the areas
service.                                        of financial management and procurement. Lack
of consensus could delay preparation of the
94.   Based  on  progress-to-date,  it  is      second phase of the Institutional Reform Project
anticipated to move forward with the second     (APL) and of the Decentralized Investment
phase of the APL, the Institutional Reform      Project. Conscious of these risks but at the same
Project II, in FY03 to continue with the reforms  time mindful that the decentralization  and
at the central and regional levels. The Rural   participation processes have brought stronger
Transformation  Project  will  support  the     ownership at the local level, the comprehensive
Government efforts to expand coverage of        approach outlined above has been designed with
electricity  and  telecommunication  services,  the explicit goal of risk minimization.
including internet access, to rural areas.
Implementation  of the Land Administration      C.  Coordination in the Context of the
Project has been successful, but coverage in    Comprehensive  Development  Framework
terms of hectares has been somewhat lower than  (CDF)
programmed due to higher than start-up costs. In
order to bring the original project to full     97.   Prior to the development of this PSAC,
completion, and based on the successful work    international donors had been supporting the
done to-date, the Region expects to propose to the  decentralization effort in a piecemeal fashion.
Board a supplemental loan in FY02.              Many were supporting institutional strengthening
of municipalities and prefectures.   Several,
95.   The proposed lending program assumes      including the World Bank, were supporting
full usage of the FY02-03 IDA allocation and of  sectoral initiatives financed through the Social
any carry-over of unused FY01 IDA allocation.   Investment Funds. The uncoordinated approach
However, if progress is not attained in all fronts,  to  specific  development  problems  was
the Bank would be ready to move to lower        characteristic of many of the international
lending levels, using the same performance      assistance efforts in Bolivia and a contributing
criteria described in the FY98 CAS: policy,     factor to the relatively poor effectiveness of the
poverty reduction and project implementation.   assistance. Despite years of relatively high levels
Performance on policy reform will continue to be  of external assistance, progress in poverty
assessed  based  on  achievement of targets     reduction has been much slower than what
underlying the IMF arrangement. The assessment  donors, the Government, and especially the poor
of progress on poverty reduction will be based  expected.
upon the successful implementation of the
Poverty Reduction Strategy for the set of       98.   Over the last three years, there has been
indicators agreed between the Government of     considerably  better coordination  among the
Bolivia and the international donors. To measure  donors, especially in the preparations leading up
project implementation, the Bank will continue  to the Consultative Group meetings.   This
using the five portfolio monitoring indicators  improvement has been mainly driven by the
used in the FY98 CAS, including targets for     government and has been further stimulated by
January 2002 and January 2003.                  the launching of the CDF. Bolivia is a pilot CDF
country. In the last three Consultative Group



- 25 -
meetings,  the  problems  related  to  the     *  the Inter-American  Development Bank's
decentralization arrangements identified in this   Local Development and Fiscal Responsibility
document (poor capacities  and  incentives,        Project;
conflicting mandates, etc.) have been noted by  *  GTZ's programmatic efforts in supporting
donors  as  serious  obstacles  to  effective      policy design and institutional strengthening
implementation  of their  projects  and  of        with respect to NCP, DUF, and FPS (through
Government programs.    With  a  Poverty          the SINACOF Project) and with respect to
Reduction  Strategy that will place greater       the definition of roles, planning procedures,
emphasis on the role of municipalities, all donors  and service delivery capacity across the three
recognize the increased urgency in addressing     levels of public administration (through the
these problems.                                    PROAS Program and GESTPART Project);
* KfW's financing of local investments
99.   This PSAC provides a central focus for       throughKFPSungertheocaltoNCP;
the support to decentralization offered by all     CAsoan to supor the  implemeNtio
donors. Many donors have participated in the
development of the project and are ready and       the Municipal Debt Restructuring Program
willing to make adjustments in their programs      (PRF); and
and procedures in order to work within a system  *  USAID's Municipal Strengthening Project.
that holds the promise of more effective and
efficient delivery of services. The impact of the  101.  In addition, several donors - including
proposed decentralization reform agenda will be  DFID, the Government of the Netherlands, and
significant, both on the effectiveness of the  the Government of Germany - have begun
implementation  of the  Government's  new      discussions among themselves, the Government
National Compensation Policy as well as on the  of Bolivia, and IDA with a view to identifying a
poverty impact of: (a) municipal expenditures  new multi-donor umbrella program to support, in
through the coparticipaciones, which funnel    parallel with the PSAC, GOB's efforts to
some US$200 million per annum to municipal     formulate an  integrated  and comprehensive
governments; (b) the expected funds from the   decentralization policy framework and program
Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative,  strategy.  The newly formed Federation of
which should direct an additional US$90 million  Municipal Associations (FAM) is finalizing a
per annum  to municipalities; and (c) the       support agreement with the Government of the
Government's  annual budget allocation  to     Netherlands, GTZ and USAID to strengthen its
Prefecturas of approximately US$180 million.    members' capacities. Other initiatives to support
institutional strengthening on the formal and non-
100.  A number of complementary initiatives    formal demand-side are less well developed.
are underway or planned which address (a)      Nevertheless,  there  are  aspects  of  the
corresponding  institutional  and   capacity   Government's  USAID-financed   Democracy
improvements on the supply-side and (b) new and  Initiative which are applicable; and DFID is in
innovative approaches which provide direct     the early stages of identifying two projects
support to both formal and non-formal local    explicitly  intended  to  parallel  supply-side
communities on the demand-side. With respect   institutional and decentralization reforms with
to supply-side strengthening, significant current  organizational strengthening on the formal and
initiatives include:                           non-formal demand-side.
*  the   Bank's  "Institutional   Reform,"     D.   Linking  the Credit to the Poverty
"Participatory Rural Investment," "Education  Reduction Strateg Paper (PRSP)
Sector Investment," and "Health  Sector     102.  Linked to the National Dialogue and
Investment" projects;      discussions with Government on the PRSP, it is



- 26 -
envisaged that PRSC I will be prepared in FY03,  PRSP to the Boards of the IMF and IDA in FY01,
following consideration by the Board of the    and PRSC  I contemplated for FY03, the
PRSP in FY01. The decentralization operation   groundwork will be laid for a coordinated
has been designed in two tranches in order to: (a)  response by IDA and other donors to the PRSP.
initiate immediate budget support for the reform  In such a scenario, the PSAC for Decentralization
agenda; (b) allow  for IDA  support to the     would dovetail into PRSC I and the subsequent
rescheduling of municipal debt in a phased     series of PRSCs. IDA and its CDF partners would
manner, linked to progress in the Government's  closely  coordinate  the  integration  of the
PRF program; (c) align disbursement of the     Decentralization PSAC  benchmarks into the
second tranche and future PRSCs with the fiscal  PRSC framework.
year budgeting cycle of the Bolivian government;
and  (d)  facilitate  the  linkage  of  the           VI. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
decentralization program to the future PRSCs.
The Government's proposed PRF program (see      105.  The proposed US$60 million equivalent
par. 65-72) has been designed to restructure   Credit would support the Govemment program
municipal debt over the course of one year in a  described above.  The main objective of the
phased approach, with municipalities joining the  Credit would be to deepen the process of
program throughout 2001. As a result, support to  decentralization to assist the Government in
the   PRF   should  be   conditioned   on      effectively implementing its Poverty Reduction
implementation  of the program  during the     Strategy.  Institutional reforms focused on
calendar year.                                 decentralization, transparency, and accountability
are the core of the reforms to be supported by the
103.  If IDA and other donors are to respond   PSAC. The reforms build upon the significant
rapidly to the Poverty Reduction Strategy, it will  work  undertaken  through  the   existing
be necessary to anticipate some elements that are  Comprehensive  Development Framework  in
likely to be central to the strategy and that will  Bolivia and the institutional reforn  agenda
need strengthening. As a result of the National  supported through IDA's IRP  and ILACO
Dialogue, it has become clear that deepening the  Project. The Credit will be disbursed in two
scope  of Bolivia's  decentralization  reform  tranches - SDR 23,350,000 (US$30 million
program  is a necessary precondition for the   equivalent) on effectiveness and SDR 23,350,000
emerging program  priorities which will be     (US$30 million equivalent) around January 2,
embodied in the PRSP. A Poverty Reduction      2002.
Strategy in the context of a decentralized system
cannot go forward effectively if the rules     A. PSAC Framework
governing relations between all levels of
government and the financial flows across them  106.  Using the framework of a Programmatic
are what they are today. Further, the Poverty   Structural Adjustment Credit recently discussed
Reduction Strategy cannot generate measurable  by the Board'2, the proposed PSAC operation will
impacts if a major part of the resources needed to  support  Bolivia's  comprehensive  reform
finance the strategy (i.e. those coming from the  program. The PSAC framework has been chosen
International Cooperation) are not aligned with  as a lending instrument because it supports a
the strategy and if a mechanism to make resource  sustained   medium-term   commitment  to
allocation adjustments does not exist.         institutional reform focused on decentralization.
A   traditional  multiple-tranche   Structural
104.  By taking the steps required by the first
tranche release in May 2001, the Government    12 See Programmatic and Emergency Adjustment Lending:
will be taking significant strides towards an   World Bank Guidelines (R98-249), October 22, 1998 and
effective launch of the Poverty  Reduction      Guidelines for Programmatic Adjustment Loans/Credits,
Strategy. With the planned presentation of the  Operational Memorandum, February 11, 2000.



- 27 -
Adjustment Credit would have to cover a period     and presented to IDA a draft Operations
at least as long as the proposed PSAC to have the  Manual which includes safeguard policies,
same impact. The Government will have strong       including   environmental   management
incentives to implement the PSAC program as        procedures, acceptable to IDA.
IDA's possible future lending program will
depend on satisfactory progress of the PSAC     Improving the Availability of Credit Financing
program.    Occasional  one-tranche  SAC        for Municipal Investments
operations may provide similar incentives but
would lack the coherence provided by the        >  FNDR and Municipal Credit Financing
medium-term PSAC reform program, and the        * The Government has presented to IDA and
consistency of fit with the CDF and overarching    published a satisfactory Operations Manual
dialogue on institutional reform in Bolivia make   which includes safeguard policies, including
the PSAC the most appropriate instrument to        environmental management procedures.
support the Government in its commitment to     * FNDR has adopted a restrictive policy on the
quicken the pace and deepen the scope of          financing  of prefecturas, limiting  credit
decentralization.  Because  of the  inherent       financing  for prefecturas  to  investment
uncertainty of the impact and progress towards     projects which are solely their responsibility.
decentralization reform, the added flexibility of  o The FNDR  0perations Manual includes
the PSAC framework will allow IDA and donors          ..       ..
explicit provisions for risk assessment
to determine the size and timing of future loans as
progress is made towards the implementation of
the reform program benchmarks.                  Municipal Debt Rescheduling
B. Actions taken prior to Board Presentation.   >  Restoring creditworthiness to overindebted
107.  Bolivia  has   embarked   on  the            municipalities
comprehensive reform program as described in    *  Debt restructuring agreements for La Paz,
the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2) and     Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, and Tarija have
outlined in the Policy Reform Matrix (Annex 3).    been signed. Draft agreements for Tarija and
The  Government has  achieved, prior to            Trindade have been prepared.
presentation  to  the  Board,  several  key     *  A draft "sunset clause" to the PRF program
benchmarks that are part of the Program to be      limiting eligibility to those municipalities
supported under the proposed Credit. As a first    overindebted as of 12/31/2000, has been
step towards achieving the reform  objectives,     enacted.
Bolivia has implemented the following key
measures and shown the following key results in  Financial Management and Procurement
the following areas:
>  Ambiguous and weak accountability of the
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations                 public sector
* Government has enacted the Supreme Decree
>  National Compensation Policy and Matching       25875 for SIGMA implementation.
Grant Mechanism.                             *  Government has promulgated a norma basica
*  The Government, by means of a CONAPE            on procurement.
resolution,  has  established  a  codified
matching grant scheme put in place through a  Enhancing Community Participation
CONAPE resolution establishing a National
Compensation Policy.                         > Improving the participation of community
*  The  Government has  established  FPS,          groups, especially the poor and indigenous
absorbing the functions of the FIS and FDC      peoples, in local affairs



- 28 -
*  Government has presented to the Congress a  of the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy.
draft law based on the results of the National  Through its support to the development of the
Dialogue.                                   National Compensation Plan, the PSAC will
*  Government has prepared a decree to the     assist the Government in the implementation of
Law of Municipalities in aspects addressing  measures to enhance the transparency of delivery
municipal associations.                     of poverty targeted assistance to priority sectors,
including education and health.'3
108.  In addition to the progress towards the
ambitious policy reform agenda, the Government
has prepared, IDA and the donor community      D. Arrangements for Management,
have reviewed, a number of work plans which    Implementation and Monitoring
provide the framework for the Government's
near-term agenda. Seen by the Government and    110.  Implementation        Arrangements.
the greater donor community as an important step  Decentralization is, by its very nature, a cross-
towards assuring the feasibility of achieving the  sectoral  activity  that,  to  be  effectively
second tranche benchmarks expediently, the     implemented, requires the cooperation of a
plans include:                                 number of Government line ministries and
agencies. The primary counterpart for ensuring
An action  plan  to revise and present      that program benchmarks are met will be the
legislation  governing  the  roles  and     Ministry of Finance, through its interministerial
responsibilities of Bolivia's three levels of  Consejo  Nacional de  Politica  Econ6mica
public administration.                      (CONAPE), in close cooperation with DUF and
v  A work plan to revise the present system of  the Ministries of the Presidency, and Sustainable
intergovernmental financial relations.      Development, including the Vice Ministries of
/  Explicit four year financing plans for FPS  Government Coordination and that for Strategic
and FNDR.                                   Planning and Popular Participation respectively.
/  A plan for wide dissemination of information  As part of the overall reform dialogue, the Bank
regarding the National Compensation Policy  and  its CDF  partners  have  assisted  the
and  the  formula-driven  matching  grant   Government in developing draft implementation
mechanism.                                  plans, including logical frameworks, budgets, and
/ A revised draft action plan based on the     draft Terms of Reference, for the various areas to
measures recommended under the CPAR.        ensure that the programs supported by the PSAC
A  work  plan  to  enhance  broad-based     can be implemented in a timely fashion.
representation  (including   women  and
indigenous groups) and to develop and       111.  The  central management responsibility
implement participatory planning procedures.  and  authority will lie with the Ministry of
/  A  pan  fr th  implmenttionof a Hacienda  which  will  establish  a  central
p A  plan  for the  implementation  of a       management unit; whose director will directly
participatory evaluation of the impact of   report to the Minister of Finance.  Monthly
capacity  strengthening   programs   for    management reports will be presented by the
municipalities and prefectures on the delivery  Minister of Finance to CONAPE for their perusal
of public services,                         and (co)approval, after which they will be made
C. Poverty Implications                        available to the donors involved.  Quarterly
meetings will be held with the Bank and all
109.  The proposed PSAC  will have an          donors  involved  on  matters  related  to
important effect on poverty, since it will support  management of the PSAC.  The management
measures to improve service delivery by the
Government and will enhance the effectiveness  13 See Annex 4 on Poverty Impact Appraisal.



- 29 -
cec4it_ inbiSs canij,egi by focuing on two factors. The first is the
ivolume  ources         W    etis c tion                       iblt   t is that hurdc ;)of debt should not grow
fast  dma the ov1 aU ecs#*rc. 4iw4 Whfich                   aid. In the Bolivian cas', ois icA-Sw that once |
muicpaity.'s dtfeatrce i&t                 Ie'lv, it si&nt rw  faste than ewtat ~ct,cn1uc
The second is the'prbpo~tion oftean be            -debt sar*ce. While in principle a municipality could devote
all its revema4eevlct,*iti a_ admnisration that spent most of its revenuts on}
uglblepnytaeat> to ,ba4ks. ,         44#*s$eslheretbr~ ergve that the proportion of revenues alcatd to debt
.-AISSA~~~~~~v .. _-.0 -.    I    9     -
-Howrgh the litltfmisof               'nicedno  tin O                     ountris tle thrshold appears to lie
fve             ee                _h u4ve     fr p                                t of revenuesX in Germany,
S% and ur Canada, 12%..         gopt~tt aAekt seryxce               14 of 15%. TI he assessment of Bolivia's 20%
ceig byIA Id                                                                          vd2 v elatively rescive  finition of current
Debt sock: revcru*erdact  b1~kjt~k'lit4bt        revenue mtcfrrforins'the same function as the debt service ratio
-  .average matty, a given debt stk ratio
nnp*- ;<sie          is equivalent to thw 200% d stock celiDg if
Sheaagor                                  anans, is- ten ya4         : of a stock Measurc to supplernnt a flow
sv   fii rt*~~fflc remmrof-eintd debt Grae periods or accelerated amnoniziation
Ore Ior&i~m implications .of4 debt  B3oth the flow and stock measures of
looks-notoay-at the- resourc  available to service debt but also
tpF,4tiWjIc Ns,&4el*:service in the event of adver  fiscal
toxicoft&mstst~tiistsuch indicator  The curret surplus-c,urrent
r_tvc~aes less         lit                      it &gtt- pers~4 inte    and mateials ad supplies-r fixed.
Costs are assumed to b refinaceable. A
NOa}                     ,       b       i    i   rXbiln   to sh4ift resurca from discetionary
*C    ,&W2             w fith La Paz and Cochabamba already
iael--& a viru>iic&r boiM 141* 7i4astt&4    /  ,         opemWo4(resolf is equW  to the cret surplus less
a2r* !wentco VL  hr ,t~ *, 'this  iS appropriate. As thc current crisis
indiazes~ amortiratiou    ,      os5al~fr      .      in Bolivit Aherefore the currt operational surplus, as a
peret of de  serv       ttih                            aprpiatindi    for Bolivia
unit will be staffed by a Director, two senior         PSAC; it will involve coordination with agencies
staff, and adequate support staff. The two senior      charged with the implementation of the parallel
staff will be responsible for: (i) the design and      activities, as elaborated before (see paragraph 3).
implementation of an integrated Management
Information System (MIS), and (ii) coordination         112.   Monitoring   Arrangements.          The
of the PSAC activities and progress. The MIS           Government has established, within the Ministry
will integrate relevant information from the M&E       of Finance, an M&E unit overseeing the entire
program, financial information  generated  by          reformn process. The management unit will design
SIGMA, and, as appropriate, output performance         a  monitoring   system   to  provide  overall
data as generated by SYSER. Finally, in order to       performance information, with a view  to: (i)
achieve  all  benchmarks  in  a  timely  and           make operational adjustments; (ii) provide early
sustainable   manner,  effective   coordination        wamings to the responsible managers; and (iii)
between the various agencies charged with the          establish whether the agreed benchmarks have
implementation of this PASC will be another key        been achieved. Furthermore, the M&E unit will
responsibility for the central management unit.        fornulate general criteria, as well as rules and
Coordination shall not be circumscribed to the         regulations for evaluations to be conducted in the



- 30 -
context of the PSAC, which are to be agreed     Such efforts will be linked to, and take advantage
upon by the donors involved. Aspects such as    of, social control mechanisms initiated as part of
prior agreement on terms of reference between   the monitoring of PRSP implementation.
relevant Ministry/agency and the donors,
participatory research methodologies, the quality  114.  Supervision and Subsequent PSACs.
and professional mix of evaluation  teams,      Bolivia's reform  program  has set out clear
transparency of evaluation results, and financing  benchmarks in all areas, together with expected
arrangements form part of them. The unit staff  outcomes to be achieved after completion of the
will possess the relevant competencies for      reforms. These benchmarks are not conditions of
tracking and reporting on progress with regard to  future lending, but guideposts to signal when
both the benchmarks and the expected outcomes   progress is advanced or falling behind in any
for each of the five major areas of policy reform  given area. If progress is adequate, Bolivia's
to be implemented through the PSAC. The unit    reform  program  could be supported through
will be supported by one M&E staff in all       subsequent annual PSACs, timed to coincide with
ministries and agencies, such as DUF, involved.  the Government's fiscal year and annual budget
Quarterly reports will be made available to all  cycle,  under  the  Programmatic  Lending
those in the public sector and in civil society  framework, subject to the approval of the Board
involved in supporting the implementation of the  of Executive Directors. Bolivia and IDA will
policy reforms.                                 agree on the appropriate size and timing of future
PSACs over the next four years as program
113.  Drawing on these reports and through      implementation progresses.
regular reviews and in the context of the
preparation  and  supervision  of subsequent    E. Credit Administration
PSACs, IDA, in coordination with the greater
donor community, will monitor the general       115.  Borrower and Credit amount.  The
progress of Bolivia's reform program, and more  proposed PSAC will be made to the Republic of
particularly the implementation of the agreed   Bolivia, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
benchmarks. Because of the significant presence  The Credit will be released in two tranches of
of IDA and its CDF partners in Bolivia, as well as  SDR 23.35 million and SDR 23.35 million,
the linkage between the PSAC objectives and     respectively, at standard IDA terms.
other activities being supported by the IADB and
other donors, the greater donor community will  116.  Disbursement.  Upon approval of the
support the implementation of Bolivia's reform  Credit and notification by IDA  of Credit
program - through quarterly monitoring led by   effectiveness, the Government will submit a
the World Bank office in La Paz - as well as    withdrawal application for the first tranche. The
technical assistance, policy  workshops and     Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a
training. In addition, civil society organizations,  deposit account in the Central Bank of Bolivia.
the poor, and indigenous people will participate  The Association will deposit the proceeds of the
in the monitoring process through:              Credit in this account at the request of the
Ministry of Finance.   The Credit will be
*  participatory focus group meetings;          disbursed   according  to  the   simplified
*  combined   review   &   action-planning      disbursement  procedures  for   adjustment
workshops;                                   operations. The disbursements will not be linked
  bilateral metings with NOsandother to specific purchases and there will be no
*  bilateral meetings with NGOs and other       poueetrqieet. Bsdo   h
organized groups;                ~procurement requirements.   Based  on  the
organized groups;                            progress towards achievement of the benchmarks
*  stratified  sample surveys; and, for the     for the second tranche of the Credit, the
unorganized general public; and              Government will submit a withdrawal application
*  systematic public opinion surveys.           for the second tranche in early January 2002.



- 31 -
117.  Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date.       120.  Risks. There  are  three  key  risks
IDA will invoke its right for audits of the Deposit  associated with the Government's programs for
Account in accordance with Section 3.02 of the    the deepening of decentralization. First, the lack
Development Credit Agreement by independent       of institutional capacity of the Government to
auditors, acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports  implement the reform  agenda which it has
should be furnished four months after the release  initiated is a risk. Because the decentralization
of each tranche.   Terms of reference for         reforms cut across a number of line ministries,
independent auditors and the format of the        sharing of responsibilities within a number of
financial reports including the management letter  Government institutions will be critical to the
need to be discussed with the Borrower. The      success of the reforms.
closing date of the Credit will be January 15,
2002.                                             121.  Second, a further deterioration of the
socio-economic situation and resulting political
118.  Environmental Impact. Environmental        instability  may  derail the  reform  process.
screening will be carried out and appropriate     Institutional and governance reform is inherently
measures implemented for investments financed    risky, and there is a risk that recent domestic
by the two investment funds (FPS and FNDR)        instability  -  primarily  as a result of the
that allocate resources to municipal governments  Government's coca eradication program - will
under the proposed decentralized model. To this   continue  and  distract policy  makers  from
end, both FPS and FNDR will adopt operational     progressing on decentralization reforn.
manuals that will include policies, procedures and
measures to deal with environmental issues,       122.  Finally, because  the  decentralization
among others. Satisfactory operational manuals    reform agenda is medium-term in nature, policy
for FPS and FNDR are a condition for first        reforms to be carried out will continue into the
tranche release under the proposed credit.        next administration, to be elected in 2002.
Though many of the needed institutional reforms
F. Benefits and Risks                             will take place during the tenure of the current
administration, the risk that the subsequent
119.   Benefits. The actions under the PSAC       administration will be less committed to reform is
will aid fiscal adjustment and will contribute to  significant. Specifically, achievement of the
the sustainability of the reform  process by      benchmarks for legal reforms in the areas of
strengthening the institutional framework needed  intergovernmental relations scheduled to have
to improve the public sector's capacity to more   been completed by January 2003 will be the
effectively  implement   Bolivia's   Poverty      purview  of both the current and subsequent
Reduction Strategy. The PSAC will have a direct   administrations,  which  increases  the  risk
benefit on the efficiency and delivery of public  associated with stagnation as a result of political
services, especially to the poor, through the     transition.
rescheduling of the debt of overindebted
municipalities and through the strengthening of   123.  To  mitigate  these  risks, IDA  will
the system for financing municipal investment     continue to work closely with its CDF partners in
and service delivery.   The PSAC will also        assisting the Government to implement the
improve the transparency and accountability of    reform agenda. Moreover, IDA and the other
the public sector and will facilitate the transition  donors will assist in dialoguing with civil society
from a system of discretionary transfers from the  and different political parties in Bolivia on the
central government towards a system of formula-   reform agenda supported by this PSAC in view of
driven matching grants which target both poverty  the  structural  nature  of  the  country's
and the Government's sectoral priorities.         decentralization   process.   Clearly,  the
programmatic lending approach facilitates the
implementation of a medium-term program of



- 32 -
reforms and allows for the necessary medium-
term policy-based interaction between the donor
community and the Government. During program
preparation, IDA and its CDF partners engaged in
a significant dialogue with all involved
institutions in Government and continue to
provide substantive input on progressing with the
reform program. Finally, access to future PSACs
will be conditioned on the Government's
continued  success  in  implementing  its
decentralization reforms.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
124.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit
complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
April 16, 2001



- 33 -
ANNEX 1: BOLIVIA - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
. :   . .d,J, .  Fj2  t   rf ,,   ,       -*'    Xi$,          * 2k2    *     ,  *1W
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (AS % OF GDP)
Gross domestic product'                   100       100      100      100       100      100       100      100      100
Agriculture                               14       13       13        12       12        12       11       11        10
Industry                                 29        29       29       29        29       28        28       28       28
Services                                 43        54       54        54       54       54        54       54       55
Total Consumption                          89        89       89       88        87       86        84       83       84
Gross domestic fixed investment            17        17       20       19        19       20       20        22       19
Government investment                               7        7         7        7        7         7        7         7
Private investment                                 10       13        12       13        13       13       15        12
Exports(GNFS)b                             23        17       18       18        18       19       20        20       20
Imports (GNFS)                             28       26        28       25        25       25       24        25       24
Grossdomesticsavings                       11        11       11        12       13       14        16       17       16
Gross national savings'                    12        11       12       13        13       14        16      -82       14
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product (GDP)             7208        ..       ..        ..    9643    10423    11277    12200    13199
(USS million at current prices)
GNP per capita(USS, Atlas method)         920      1410     2830        ..    3420      1810      1270        0      -50
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1990 prices)
GDPatmarketprices                        4.1      4.2       4.7      5.0      5.3       5.4      5.5       5.5      5.5
Gross Domestic Income                    4.0      2.8       3.2      4.5      4.7       4.9      5.0       5.3      5.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1990 prices)
GDPatmarketprices                        1.7      2.0       2.3      2.6      3.0       3.1      3.2       3.2      3.2
Total consumption                       -0.1      3.1       0.6      0.6       1.0      0.6      0.5       1.3      4.3
Private consumption                      0.1      3.3       1.1      0.7       1.3      1.9      1.8      -1.1      3.7
BALANCE OF PAYMES (USS MILLIONS)
Exports (GNFS)b                         1318     1329      1507     1621      1774     2000     2240      2457     2673
MerchandiseFOB                        1132     1134      1262     1353     1481      1682     1895     2082      2276
Imports (GNFS)b                        1779      2009     2258     2257      2408     2580      2744     3067     3134
Merchandise FOB                       1579     1810     2016      1995     2123     2272      2410     2706      2758
Resource balance                        -461      -680     -752     -637      -634     -580      -503     -610     -461
Nctcurrenttransfers                      245      235       227      249       214      191       179      119      116
Current account balance                 -384      -664     -696     -565      -599     -564      -499   -12702     -751
Net private foeign direct investment     471      558       600      550       480      420      420       550      303
Long-term loans (net)                    239      208         9      288      328       236       105      160      188
Official                                196      220       139       98       120      122      109      -199     -193
Private                                  43      -12      -130      190      208       114        -3      359      381
Other capital (inCl. enors& omissions)  -327        13      224      -45       -63       30       151    12137      326
Change in reservesd                        0      -115     -137     -228      -146     -122      -178     -144      -67



- 34 -
ANNEX 1: BOLIVIA - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS (CONT.)
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -6.4               ..       ..    -6.6    -5.6        4.5    -5.0    -3.5
Real annual growth rates ( YR90 prices)
Merchandiseexports(FOB)                2.2      2.8     11.7     5.9      8.1     10.9    10.3       7.3     6.9
Primary                                ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Manufactures                         41.4   -11.3    10.8       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      1.7     1.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)              3.0    19.3      6.8    -4.0       3.3      4.4      3.4      9.5    -0.6
PUBLIC FINANCE (AS % OF GDP AT MARKET PRICES)E
Current revenues                      26.3    24.7    24.8    24.8    24.7    24.8    25.0    25.6    23.2
Cufrentexpenditures                   20.0    22.2    22.3    21.6    20.5    20.3    20.1          18.8    16.2
Current account surplus or deficit     6.3     2.5      2.4      3.2      4.2      4.5      4.9      6.9     7.0
Capital expenditure                    8.2     7.0      7.0      6.7      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.2     7.2
Foreign financing                      2.6     2.9      3.7      3.5      3.4      3.1      2.7    -1.1    -1.4
MONETARY INDICATORS
M2/GDP                                46.7    45.4    46.5    46.5    46.5    46.5    46.5    58.8    62.5
GrowthofM2(%)                         24.5     9.4      14.2    11.3    11.4    11.2    11.3    40.7    18.3
Private sector credit growth / total  93.0   123.5    95.0   104.5    97.0    97.0    97.0    97.0    97.0
credit growth (%)
PRICE INDICES (YR90 =100)
Merchandise export price index        74.5    72.6    72.3    73.2    74.1        75.9    77.5    79.4    81.2
Merchandise import price index       212.0   205.1   214.0   220.5   227.3   233.0   239.1   245.2   251.4
Merchandise terms of trade index      35.1    35.4    33.8    33.2    32.6    32.6    32.4    32.4    32.3
Realexchangerate(US$/LCU)e           123.1   118.1   123.1   123.1   123.1   123.1   123.1   123.1   123.1
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)        7.9      6.9     7.7      6.4      6.2      5.7      5.8      5.6     5.6
GDP deflator (% change)                8.9      7.8     6.5      6.0      5.8      5.5      5.5      5.5     5.5
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services.
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX 2 - DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT
- TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL SPANISH -
The purpose of this policy statement is to inform the World Bank about the strategic and policy lines the
Bolivian Government has decided to follow with the purpose of refining the decentralization process
initiated in Bolivia six years ago.  It is widely recognized that the political and administrative
decentralization of government is an efficient way of reinforcing the country's efforts to reduce poverty and
provide basic services to citizens in a more efficient manner.
The Government of Bolivia is seeking the collaboration of the World Bank, in the form of a long-term
financial assistance arrangement, to apply the policy set out herein. With the Bank's support, systems and
incentives could be put in place to enable the actors of development in Bolivia to coordinate and integrate
their roles more efficiently, through transparent resource allocation mechanisms.
BACKGROUND
The political and administrative decentralization process started in 1992, when the scope of the
constitutional reforms undertaken by Bolivia was agreed upon and all possibilities of adopting a federal
form of government or recognizing regional governments were discarded. The only public authorities
endowed with management autonomy are the municipal governments, responsible for managing public
services at the local level.
When the Popular Participation Law was approved in 1994, an aggressive decentralization policy with
particular emphasis on social participation was launched. Municipal jurisdiction was extended to include
the entire national territory; social and economic infrastructure management responsibilities were
transferred to the municipal governments; a portion of government revenues was transferred to the
municipalities on a per capita basis to fund their newly acquired functions; and the legal existence of civil
society organizations was recognized so that they may participate in local planning and control of municipal
management.
In 1995, the Administrative Decentralization Law was passed to achieve a more equitable distribution of
government revenues among the different regions of the country. The law put into effect a decentralized
management model for government. In this model, the departmental prefectures were given responsibilities
in the areas of development and management of certain public services not delegated to the municipalities,
in addition to their role as representatives of the central government in the departments. A portion of
government revenues is allocated for prefectures to fulfill their new duties. Departmental councils were set
up, with members elected by the municipal governments of the department concerned, to exercise control
over prefectural management. In this manner, the departmental prefecture became an articulating body
between national and municipal-level management and a promoter of regional development.
In 1997, the current administration promulgated the Executive Power Organization Law, which established
the general roles and powers attributed to the ministries and ratified, with some exceptions, the areas of
responsibility assigned to the departmental prefectures in the Administrative Decentralization Law. A



- 36 -
series of normative measures are taken based on this legal instrument to regulate organizational and
administrative aspects in the ministries, departmental prefectures, national services and departmental
services.
Finally, in November 1999, the new Municipalities Law was approved, revoking the 1985 Municipal
Organization Law and consolidating the new set of regulations to be observed by the municipal
governments within the framework of Popular Participation.  Certain aspects affecting municipal
governance were adjusted; the role played by social organizations in controlling government management
was reinforced; some organizational and administrative aspects regarding the municipal governments were
defined; and the institutional power of the municipal governments was reinforced.
EVALUATION
After six years of decentralization and strengthening of municipal management, it would seem that a
framework is in place to regulate the functioning of and relation between the different public bodies. There
is evidence that positive changes have occurred in the allocation of resources and that relations between
civil society and government have improved.
The figures show that government revenues have been decentralized. In 1994, 64.3% of total public
investment was allocated to and managed by central government agencies and only 35% went to
decentralized agencies. By 1999, decentralized public investment accounted for 64.1% of the total, with
35.9% independently planned and managed by the municipal governments.
There is also proof that the allocation of resources within the framework of decentralization has explicitly
benefited the social sectors. In 1994, only 20.9% of total public investment went to social development
projects in education, health, basic sanitation, housing, urban development and others. In 1999, this
percentage increased to 50% of the total.
Finally, with regard to improving distribution of public investment at the territorial level, of the 61.9% of
public investment made in the central axis departments (La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) in 1994,
today only 49.4% of this investment is made in those departments, showing that public resources have been
reoriented toward other regions of the country.
Despite these positive indicators, it is nonetheless true that the decentralization process still needs to be
readjusted and improved to ensure that the conditions and incentives with which each of the levels of
government operates actually bring about a better and more adequate provision of public services.
INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Over the last few years, and particularly during the period of municipal management ending in 1999, there
have been evident signs of institutional instability derived from governance issues and an improper use of
the Constructive Censure Vote established in the Constitution. A significant number of municipalities have
had more than one mayor in the last four years and a number have had more than two mayors in the same



- 37-
period. It is expected that the new Municipalities Law will redress the situation, but the fact remains that
the institutional development of the municipal governments is still inadequate.
In spite of the efforts made by several institutional support programs, municipal governments do not have
the necessary management capacity and, as is the case in other levels of government, they have not been
able to establish an administrative career that would allow them to consolidate their institutionality.
The departmental prefectures have also had difficulties in applying the decentralized management model.
They have seen their responsibilities increase significantly, but have not been able to cope with the situation
by expanding their institutional capacity. This is clearly evident in the low levels of budget performance
registered for the last years.
No concrete results are visible in connection with the prefectures' articulating role. The departmental
councils have not been effective in achieving articulation with the municipal governments. Their degree of
communication with the municipalities is still low and their capacity to direct resource allocation efficiently
is likewise limited. Ultimately, it is the National Congress who actually determines the funds allocated to
the prefectures when it approves the budget.
FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ASPECTS
As far as financial and fiscal management is concerned, the decentralization process has encountered some
problems, which could lead to financial deficit and risks of insolvency in the decentralized entities,
jeopardizing the decentralization process itself in the long run.
In the majority of cases, because of the sudden increase in tax sharing in favor of the municipal
governments, this has become the only source of funds for the municipalities. The municipal governments
receive the funds automatically without any fiscal or tax effort on their part, nor on the part of the benefited
population. There is no incentive for the municipal governments to generate their own funds and their
fiscal dependency on these automatic transfers gets higher and higher. If this problem is not addressed and
municipalities are not encouraged to generate their own funds, they will continue to depend on policy
setting at the central level and will fail to develop financial capacity to efficiently address the needs of the
population.
The second problem encountered has to do with the high expectations created by Popular Participation.
Development institutions operating in the country such as the Investment Funds (FIS, FDC and FNDR) felt
compelled to modify their resource allocation policies to target the municipal governments as the main
beneficiaries of their funding programs. The funds were channeled to the municipal governments in
addition to tax coparticipation, based on a series of sectoral criteria not necessarily directed toward
compensating fiscal capacity and promoting municipal institutional development.
Concurrently with the municipal governments in each department, the departmental prefectures agreed to
various investment modalities. These represented yet another way of transferring funds to the local level
with its own allocation criteria. As a result, funds are currently transferred to the municipal governments
with no common resource allocation policy, nor compensation for the poorer municipalities.
Finally, the third problem related to financial and fiscal aspects found in the functioning of the
decentralization process is municipal borrowing. The unconditional flow of resources directed toward the



- 38 -
municipal govermments and the urgency of addressing the short-termn investment needs of the municipalities
worked as an incentive for the creation of a municipal credit market. For this, future transfers and
municipal income were committed, but no regulatory measures were taken to ensure a rational process and
preserve the financial sustainability of the municipalities.
Initially, the central government adopted some normative measures to set limits for municipal borrowings.
The measures were recently given proper form in the Budgetary Administration Law. In spite of this, there
is still not enough supervision and regulation at the local level as it is unclear who will take on the risk
connected with the credit operations of the municipal governments. Furthermore, there is no record nor
public knowledge about municipal debt. Today, practically all the municipalities capable of generating
their own funds have completely saturated their borrowing capacity, making structural changes an urgent
necessity.
In sum, as a result of the financial and fiscal problems encountered, the municipal governments have seen
their investment and service provision capacity diminished. Likewise, the existence of multiple modalities
for the transfer of additional funds to the municipalities is causing deficiencies in the regional allocation of
resources, posing new risks to the distribution of funds. There is a lack of explicit and transparent
compensation policies that favor the application of public policy and enable a more equitable distribution of
resources among the municipalities.
SYNTHESIS
There is no doubt that decentralizing govermnent is a necessary step toward providing services to citizens in
a more effective and efficient manner. Bolivia has made significant progress in this direction, launching an
aggressive process that has now become irreversible. The initial results of the decentralization process are
evident when we look at the distribution of public investment from both a sectoral and regional viewpoint.
The experience gained and the lessons learned have made the Bolivian Government aware of the need to
make policy adjustments to refine the decentralization process in order to overcome the constraints
identified and address the risks described.
In this context, and recognizing once again that an effective government decentralization policy is
indispensable for poverty reduction, the government has decided to organize a National Dialogue on
poverty, within the HIPC II initiative, to agree upon a participatory mechanism for allocating public
resources, centered on the municipalities as the main actors of the process.
The policy lines described in this letter seek to facilitate the application of the conclusions of the National
Dialogue, and on that basis, turn decentralization into an effective instrument for applying the poverty
reduction strategy to be agreed upon shortly.



- 39 -
THE DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
The Bolivian Government hopes to launch a long-term policy designed to refine the decentralization
process as a mechanism to combat poverty, on the basis of adequate institutional and fiscal systems that
strengthen accountability in the three levels of government.
Five specific policy lines have been earmarked as objectives for structural change, in the understanding that
there shall be a process of gradual assimilation and learning on the part of the actors involved. These lines
are:
a) Review and adjust the current distribution of areas of responsibility and resources between the three
levels of government (national, departmental and municipal), seeking to better integrate dispersed
functions. The subsidiarity principle will bring about a strengthening of municipal autonomy without
undermining service quality and ensuring that each level of government assumes responsibility for the
functions that it can comparatively manage more efficiently.
b) Based on the redefinition of areas of responsibility and resources at each level of government, evaluate
and make adjustments in the models of institutional organization and functioning. This means clearly
establishing the responsibilities of each level, the forms of social participation and control, and the
articulation and institutional coordination mechanisms between the central government, the
departmental prefectures and the municipal governments. This objective also includes promoting the
institutionalization of all the public entities involved and the construction of solid institutional
foundations for improving governmental management capacity, especially in the prefectures and
municipal governments.
c) Promote fiscal responsibility at the local level, on the basis of greater discipline to stimulate fund
generation, the adoption of local financial cleanup measures and sound financial management. This
objective also seeks to ensure macroeconomic balance at the central level, minimizing the risks of
deficient fiscal management at the local level.
The policy line also envisages establishing a transparent municipal credit market by developing
specialized, independent institutional capacities to provide efficiency to local borrowing, minimize
the risk of financial deficit and broaden the investment capacity of municipal governments in a
sustainable manner.
d) Design and put in place a compensatory policy to fund local demand and at the same time favor a more
equitable distribution of resources toward the poorer regions, based on transparent and consistent
indicators, harmonizing central and local policies and promoting municipal institutional strengthening.
Each of these policy lines will unfold gradually, crossing several phases. Three of these phases have
already been identified and we hope they will coincide with the implementation of a financial assistance
program by the Bank during the next ten years.
The first phase would be dedicated to promoting the development of fiscal and financial relations between
the three levels of government, encouraging transparency and the application of clear signals in the transfer
and funding mechanisms, increasing the municipal governments' investment capacity and developing their
institutional management capacity to access and manage the transfers and credits provided by the central
government.



- 40 -
The second phase would be dedicated to applying a new decentralized public management framework in
specific sectors (education, health, infrastructure and others), emerging from the evaluation of the
experience acquired until now and the application of criteria that foster greater efficiency in the
management of public entities and in social control.
The aim of the third phase is to consolidate the new framework for decentralized management by applying
institutional development policies that provide sustainability to the programs implemented. The expected
result is a new form of government administration, with higher levels of efficiency and accountability,
based on the application of the subsidiarity  principle, with increased institutional capacity, more
coordination mechanisms and transparency in fiscal relations.
REDEFINITION OF AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY AND RESOURCES
The objective of redefining areas of responsibility and resources between the levels of government is to
ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and correspondence are applied. In other words, to ensure that
each level of the administration takes on those areas of responsibility for which the costs and benefits are
better internalized by its beneficiary population.
In the case of Bolivia, this objective will be achieved to the extent that the experience gained in connection
with the distribution of areas of responsibilities in certain especially complex sectors, as the education and
health sectors, is carefully analyzed, and provided an evaluation is done to determine whether or not the
current distribution of resources is in line with the responsibilities actually delegated to each level of
government.
In the first phase, the Government plans to analyze carefully all the public resources managed by the central
government, the prefectures and the municipal governments and their relation with the responsibilities
effectively delegated. This analysis will determine the adjustment needed to improve distribution.
Additionally, the mechanisms used to decentralize the management of the resources transferred to the larger
cities and urban centers will be extended and reinforced so that they may directly benefit the population of
each municipal district and avoid excessive concentration.
For the second phase of the process, the Government will take the necessary steps to approve a new law
concerned with the distribution of areas of responsibility between the three levels of government and to
revise resource distribution criteria.
Finally, the third phase will be aimed at evaluating the efficiency with which each level of government is
fulfilling its responsibilities. Measures will also be taken to consolidate the decentralized management
model on a permanent basis.
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
From an institutional viewpoint, the decentralization policy seeks to establish more effective mechanisms
and incentives for the functioning of the public bodies and the accountability of their authorities. For this, it



- 41 -
will review the current structure of the departmental councils, their composition, functions, form of
operation and representativeness.  The type of institutional relation between the central and the
departmental administrations will be clarified. The studies will also analyze this aspect, considering models
for governance and for upgrading social control mechanisms.
Institutional development measures will include programs to strengthen the municipal governments and the
departmental prefectures, improving their management capacity to become more efficient in mobilizing
funds and providing services in their areas of responsibility. The institutionalization of these entities and
the establishment of an administrative career in the prefectures and municipalities are likewise part of this
policy, within the framework of current institutionalization efforts in central-level entities.
All the studies, institutional models and incentive systems concerned with decentralized management will
be developed during the first phase, which is also planned to include institutional strengthening programs
linked to the specific demands at each level.
It is expected that by the second phase the legislative measures needed to put in place the new institutional
model will be included in the draft law to be prepared by the government. This means promoting the
creation or consolidation of associations or communities of municipalities, special strengthening for large
cities and peri-urban municipalities to set up metropolitan areas, and increasing productivity and
competitiveness in the municipalities.
Finally the third phase will seek to develop technical and institutional capacity for monitoring and
evaluation, as well as the coordination mechanisms needed to refine and reinforce the administrative and
political decentralization process.
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
One of the main objectives of the proposed policy is to promote fiscal responsibility and provide incentives
for municipal governments to overcome their dependency on funds transferred from the central government
and the situation derived from the unsustainability of municipal borrowing.
The first thing will be to separate the instruments of municipal credit from the instruments of conditioned
transfers. The aim is to specialize municipal credit as an incentive for municipal efficiency, and to utilize
the transfer of funds as a compensatory and equity mechanism.
On the basis of this definition, fiscal discipline will be stimulated in the municipalities through a fiscal
cleanup program and the application of a control system for subnational borrowing.
The first phase will focus on overcoming the financial crisis of the urban municipal governments. For this
the central government, through the Ministry of Finance, will enter into specific agreements to establish
goals and indicators to assess fiscal discipline in the municipal governments. Fiscal rehabilitation will be
certified and this certification will be a requisite for accessing loans from the National Regional
Development Fund and other credit institutions regulated by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Entities.



- 42 -
The application of fiscal rehabilitation measures will include improving indebtedness rules in the areas of
debt recording, ceilings for popular participation resources furnished as guarantee, dissemination of
information on the level of indebtedness of the municipalities, inapplicability of guarantees due to saturation
of preset limits, and the right of all creditors to sign agreements for the application of automatic debit.
Once its institutional capacity is strengthened, the Ministry of Finance will keep a permanent record of
municipal public debt and the performance of fiscal rehabilitation programs.
By the second phase of the process, it is expected that the larger municipal governments will have put their
local finances on a sound footing, will have achieved reasonable goals with regard to fiscal autonomy and
will be able to participate in a transparent credit market, taking on the risks and responsibilities associated
with the application of their own borrowing guidelines. The central level's capacity to monitor and record
local finances through the Ministry of Finance will be reinforced and transparent fiscal discipline
regulations whereby the central government assumes no risk whatsoever with regard to decentralized
administration will be established.
The third phase will seek to extend the application of the signals, incentives and programs concerned with
fiscal discipline to all the municipal governments so that complete fiscal autonomy may be achieved in the
rural municipalities, ending their dependency on transfers from the central government as the only or most
important source of funds.
MUNICIPAL CREDIT
Once the fiscal rehabilitation objectives are met, efforts will be directed toward setting up a municipal credit
market, enabling the municipalities to increase their investment capacity, observing rules and regulations of
fiscal discipline.
During the first phase, support will be given to credit operations through the National Regional
Development Fund (FNDR). The FNDR will have to improve its form of intervention by applying credit
risk assessment procedures, gradually setting up independent entities dealing with risk rating, providing
funds according to credit rating and resorting to the rules of prudence established by the Superintendency of
Banks and Financial Entities.
To fully assume its new role, the FNDR will have to specialize its functions separating municipal credit
operations from the management of credit lines for the prefectures. It will also have to put an end to its
non-reimbursable transfer facilities, which will be covered by the compensation policy.
The institutional transformation of the FNDR will start in the second phase. The purpose of this
transformation is to turn the FNDR into an independent financial entity operating under market conditions.
In the case of the departmental prefectures, depending on the institutional definitions made, the government
will put in place alternative mechanisms to manage special credit lines. This way, the FNDR will specialize
only in municipal credit.
The institutional transformation of the FNDR into a fully autonomous second-floor bank is expected to be
completed by the third phase. At that time, the rehabilitation and certification of the fiscal capacity of all the
municipalities will enable the opening of the municipal credit market. Private financial entities and other
funding mechanisms will be able to participate in the municipal credit market.



- 43 -
COMPENSATION POLICY
The lack of an explicit compensation policy for the poorest municipalities, as well as the matter of
incentives for actions and programs in areas of national interest, will be addressed through the application
of a compensation policy based on conditioned transfers.
A transparent system of incentives with clear signals will be put in place for the municipal governments,
through project cofinancing utilizing the funding rates, processes, costs and management of the Funds
operating transfers.
The first phase of the application of the compensation policy will be the institutional transformation of the
Social Investment Fund (FIS) and Rural Development Fund (FDC). These entities will become a new
mechanism for channeling resources to the municipalities according to duly disclosed transparent criteria.
In order to avoid distortions in the implementation of the compensation policy, all the transfers made by the
central government and the prefectures to the municipalities, regardless of the way in which they are
channeled, will be gradually harmonized and made transparent.
For this, during fiscal year 2001, the government will issue regulations and take specific actions, through
the Ministry of Finance, to systematize and disclose information about the transfers made to the municipal
governments by the investment funds, departmental prefectures and other institutions of the central
government. Based on this information, and should there be inconsistencies between the transfers made
and the objectives of the compensation policy, ex post adjustments will be made through the cofinancing
programs managed by the development funds.
For the following fiscal years and based on the experience gained in applying the compensation policy, the
government will issue regulations to ensure that all transfers made by the prefectures and central
government institutions are in line with predetermined compensation objectives.
By the second phase, mechanisms will have been put in place, through the new legislation to be approved,
to ensure the application of a comprehensive compensation policy, susceptible to social evaluation and
control. The policy must also take account of the public funds managed by the national institutions and the
resources coming through international cooperation channels. During this phase, the entity specialized in
managing the compensation transfers from the central government will start to delegate its administrative
duties to the municipalities, and will become the only channel through which conditioned transfers are made
under the compensation policy.
It is expected that by the third phase the Funds will no longer be necessary as a parallel structure for the
channeling of resources from the compensation policy. By then, the municipal governments will have
developed sufficient institutional and management capacity to manage all the funds transferred to them. At
that time, the compensation policy will operate through transparent formulas and automatic transfers to the
municipal governments.
WORLD BANK SUPPORT



- 44 -
The support of the World Bank would help the government meet the objectives indicated and apply the
decentralization policy described. Such support could be provided through an operation consisting of three
phases, which would be initially organized into the following components:
a) Development and adjustment of the decentralization framework.  This component covers the
development of studies and preparation of necessary adjustments of the prevailing legal framework.
b) Fiscal rehabilitation. Support to the design of a rehabilitation policy and its application instruments,
development of specific programs with the municipal governments and capacity building in the
Ministry of Finance for recording and controlling municipal performance.
c) Municipal credit. Financing of municipal investment projects and restructuring of the FNDR.
d) Support to the compensation policy. Cofinancing of municipal investment according to the policy
established and institutional transformation of the FIS and FDC.
e) Municipal strengthening, aimed at facilitating access to credit and conditioned transfers by the
municipal governments and achieving fiscal cleanup goals.
Many entities belonging to the three administrative levels (central, departmental and local) will intervene in
the application of the decentralization policy and the components described. The government will set up
special departnents to coordinate and direct the process, assigning responsibilities to specialized technical
units who will be in charge of executing the components.
A Council of Ministers will be set up at the highest level of government. The Council will be presided by
the Minister of the Presidency and will be composed of the Ministers of Finance, and Sustainable
Development and Planning and representatives from the sectoral ministries having to do with the
decentralization process.  It will be responsible for drawing up strategies and guidelines for the
decentralization policy and verifying compliance therewith.
We are certain that with the efforts of the governmental entities, the support of the World Bank and other
international cooperation agencies, and the participation of civil society through the National Dialogue, we
will be able to create the conditions needed to refine the decentralization process in Bolivia and reinforce
the role of decentralization as an important part of the country's poverty reduction strategy.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3A - KEY POLICY REFORMS
SUPPORTED UNDER THE FIRST CREDIT
Fnisig TR~AKMn    MAYL 2mO~
INTERGOVERNMENTAL           CREDIT FINANCING FOR            MUNICIPAL DEBT           FINANcIAL MANAGEMENT    COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
FISCAL RELATIONS         MUNICIPAL INVESTMENTS             RESCHEDULING               AND PROCUREMENT                 LEGAL REFORM
*  Codified matching grant    *FNDR Operations            *Satisfactory Convenios for  *Unamnbiguous application    * Presentation to Congress
scheme put in place          Manuals, satisfactory to    the implementation of the     of the Supreme Decree        of a draft Law on the
through a CONAPE            IDA, approved and             Debt Restructuring           25875 - on the               Dialogo Nacional.
resolution establishing a    publicized.                  Program with 1 st series     implementation of SIGMA   * GOB to have approved the
National Compensation                                     municipalities (La Paz,      (integrated financial        decreto reglamentario to
Policy.                   *FNDR to have adopted a         Santa Cruz, Cochabamnba,     management system)           the Law of Municipalities
restrictive policy on the    and Tarija) finalized,                                    in its aspects dealing with
* Establishment of FPS,         financing of prefecturas to                            *Promulgation of legislation    mancomunidades.
absorbing the functions of  investmnent projects which   * Introduction of a sunset    on procurement, consistent
FIS and FDC.                 are solely their             clause to the Programna de   with the CPAR.
responsibility.              Readecuaci6n Financiera,
* FPS Operations Manuals,                                   limiting eligibility to those
including safeguard      *FNDR Operations Manual          municipalities
policies, satisfactory to   to include provisions for     overindebted as of
IDA, approved and           the development of            12/31/2000
publicized,                  appropriate risk
assessment mechanisms
and their use.



- 46 -
INTERGOVERNMENTAL          CREDIT FINANCING FOR           MUNICIPAL DEBT          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT   COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
FISCAL RELATIONS        MUNICIPAL INVESTMENTS            RESCHEDULING              AND PROCUREMENT               LEGAL REFORM
* Draft legislation         * PAI established as a      * Satisfactory level of     * SIGMA operational in all   * Enactment of a Law on the
(anteproyecto de Ley)      condition for access to      performance for             central government          Dialogo Nacional.
completed, satisfactory to  investment financing by     implementation of Debt      ministries, FNDR, and
IDA, redefining roles,     FNDR.                        Restructuring Program       FPS.                     * Presentation of legislation
responsibilities, and fiscal                            with 1st series                                         to introduce participatory
relations among the three                               municipalities           * Enactment of modem           planning procedures and
levels of the public                                   (Government applying         Public Procurement Law      social control mechanisms
administration.                                         sanctions as necessary as   acceptable to IDA.          at the local level.
per the Convenios).
* Government has adopted a
policy on and a plan to                              * Satisfactory Convenios for
implement the                                          the implementation of the
rationalization of overall                              Municipal Debt
social investment                                       Restructuring Program
programs.                                               with remaining eligible
municipalities finalized.
* Transparent reporting
mechanisms for
discretionary transfers to
municipalities established.
* PAI established as a
condition for access to
investment fnancing by
FPS.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3B - POLICY REFORM PROGRAM MATRIX:
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION BENCHMARKS
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                    BENCHMARKS
I st Credit                      PRSC I               PRSC 1I             PRSC I I                 OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001    Tranche 2: Jan-2002 |    Jm-2003              Jan-2004            Jan^2005
A. INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILTY OF BOLVIVA'S DECENTRALIZEED GOVERNMENT SYSTEM
A. l. Objective: Improving the Institutional and Regulatory Framework for Decentralization, according to principles of subsidiarity
Issue #I: Redefinition of  GOB to have         Following on from    Revised or new law(s)  GOB to have        Three levels of      An appropriate and clear
roles and responsibilities   presented a work plan   broad-based   on roles and           presented a plan to    govnment          definition of roles and division of
across the three levels of  to revise present  consultations, GOB   responsibilities of each  assist Prefecturas in  complying with the    responsibilities among the
public administration,  legislation on the role   to have completed    public administration    complying with  newly defined roles    different levels of govemment
especially between      and responsibilities   analysis of          level enacted (LPP,   their newly defined   and tesponsibilities.   that will better enable the three
municipalities and      across the three levels   adjustments needed   Municipal Law,     institutional roles                      levels of public administration to
prefccturts for the     of public              in the assignment of  Admnxisttrative      and responsibilities                     provide public services and fight
provision of public     administration         roles and           Decentralization Law)   based on results of                     poverty more efficiently and
servies.                according to           responsibilities                           analysis.                                effectively.
principles of          across thc three    GOB to have
subsidiarity.          levels of public    comnpleted                                                      Dissemination of work in
administration.     consultations in cach                                          progress at the social and political
of the 9 Departments                                           level carried out throughout the
Draft legislation   to discuss refotrns                                            reform process.
(anteproyecto de    with local
Ley) completed,     governments and with
satisfactory to    'local communities,
IDA, redefining    including indigenous
roles and           grups, woMn, poor
responsibilities   people, and civil
across the three    society as well as
levels of the public   political parties.
administration.
Benchmarks for PSAC IL, PSAC 111, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 48 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                        BENCHMARKS                                                                     .__.
Ist Credit                           PC I                   PRSC II              P.S  ill              OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: Mar-200 1    Tranche 2: Jan-2002           J:                jS 0  Jan-2004              a.2005
lssuc:2:  Reform of      GOB to have            GOB to have completed   Ri;    Measured reduction    ln                          rv          An appropriate and clear
jintergovernmena fiscal -presented a work       analysis on adjustments    it  iscl of vertical                                 i            intergovernmental fiscal
tra4.rssteinand    :-plan to revise present  needed to the               rS1_fiuanci              imbalances.           ri (,= n    l        system that follows the new
finacing mechanisms.  0system of               intergovemmental fiscal    ecanisms enacted.                             g     m              definition of roles and
intergovernmental     system (and financing                              Elimination of       r ie         l       responsibilities across the
fiscal transfers so as    mechanisms).                                   discretionary          t1      it nei     three different levels of
to make it consistent                                                    transfers to         revenues),           public administration and a
with the revised       Draft legislation                                 municipalities.                           reduction in both "vertical"
assignment of         (anteproyecto de Ley)                                                                        and horizontal"
responsibilities      completed, satisfactory                                                                      imbalances.
across the three levels  to the Bank, on the
of public              reforms of
administration.        intergovernmental
fiscal relations and
financing mechanisms.
|ssue#3: Transparent   0GOB has issued a        GOB to have adopted a   Co6difie         grant   GOB to have            GOI1 to havi         Investment funds allocated
and consistent criteria for  CONAPE resolution    policy on and a plan to   shirevised            satisfactorily        satit    ly          based upon formula-driven
thealloaon of Jii6ds     establishing a         implement the            ari t                    implemented            iTI _               non-discretionary rules
for put,1ic services i W National               rationalization of        e      i        v.      adjustments in the    a            the     with poverty criteria and
provisjoj,    0        :Compensation            overall investment                                allocation of funds   a       n    n       sector specific priorities
Policy, including the    activities, including  Repon se                 through the matching   t Wo h t.          and strategies.
formula-driven        donor-financed                 i n          l      grant scheme by           h   grann
matching grant        activities.              oetis netJ                discounting 66% of    shm   yLocal governments and
mechanism.                                           ing                the amounts of any    dc t    0            communities have access to
Transparent reporting    eat bIished.             discretionary         of the   otof    information on the
Establishment of       mechanisms for                                    transfers to         any dlsctiny         allocation of investment
FPS, absorbing the    discretionary transfers        .  av               municipalities made   tr_         -:-e m tofunds for public service
functions of the FIS    to municipalities      saifloiyin year 2002.                           mncpitemae provision, including the
and FDC.              established. c tplemnredadji s                                             e                  criteria used for such
mthea1Io~~~~~~a46noftluids ~~~~~allocations.
FPS's Operations                               thS         ngstchins
Manual, satisfactory                            pMt4    e.by                                                        Improved expenditure
to IDA, approved                                         m|decentralization ratio
and publicized.                                                                                                    ( municipal govemnment
_____   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~9eXpenditures relative to
-~~~~ 7#k'in ~~~~~~~~~total government
_______________________                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~expenditures).
Benchmarks for PSAC 11, PSAC 111, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 49 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                      BFNCHMARKS
I st Credit                         PR I I                PRSC II              PRSC mII             OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001    Tranche 2: Jan-2002          Jaw2OW3                Jan-2004             Jan-2005
Issue A3: Ttrnsparent   GOB has a plan,       Satisfactory            SaIisikeor               Satisfactory         Stist b.ory
and consistent criteria for  acceptable to IDA, to   implementation of the    implemenWtaon of  implementation of    implemteation of
the alloetion of funds  fund FPS over the next  National Compensation   codified matching      codified matching    codified matching
for public services     four years.           Policy and formula-     scheme (to be evaluated   scheme (to be       scheeme (1 be
provision. (cont.)                            driven matching grant   by mcans of a           evaluated by means    evaluated by means
mechanism.              statistically           of a statistically   of a statiscally
representative sauple of   representative sample  representative
Adequate funding and    investmnts financed by   of investments      sanple of
institutionalization of  FPS).                  financed by FPS).    investments
FPS on the basis of                                                  financed by FPS).
previously agreed plans.   Continued fimding of  Adequate funding of
FPS on the basis of     FPS on the basis of    Adequate funding
previously agteed plan.    previously agreed  of FPS on the basis
plan.                of previously agreed
plan.
Issue #4: Access to     Government,           Information on programs  Based on ongo*ng        Based on assessment,                     Local communities have
information regarding   through DUF, to       for local and community  surveys, assessment is    dissemination of                        access to information on
government programs for  have presented a     development is being    carried out to verify    information on                            government programs for
local and comtmunity    plan for wide         disseminated.            improved and expanded    programs for local                       local and community
development             dissemination of                               understanding and       and community                             development, including the
information           GOB has designed and    knowledge of            development is                            requirements for access to
regarding the        implemented              government programs.    perfected.                                such programs.
National              methodology for
Compensation Policy   assessing understanding                                                                   Local community groups or
and programs and      and knowledge of                                                                          individuals may file
projects managed by   government programs by                                                                    complaints through
FPS and FNDR.         different groups,                                                                         accessible windows created
including women and                                                                      to this end.
Government to have    indigenous peoples.
informed all                                                                                                    More resources used to the
municipalities about                                                                                            benefit of the poorer
the National                                                                                                    segments of local
Compensation Policy                                                                                             communities.
and financing
administered through
.__ __ _ _ _   FNDR  and  FPS.                                           ...   i_._._.
Benchmarks for PSAC 11, PSAC 111, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 50 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                        BENCHMARKS
1 st Credit                          P1S                    PRSC II                                    OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001    Tranche 2: Jan-2002           Jn003                   Jan-2004                  00.
_ssg, #5: A ~cownabil ty   Unambiguous          SIGMA operational in   200        1  s8at   t   2002 financial            3 flnanci         More efficient and effective
of thb public sector,    application of the     all central government                            statements output of                       use of public resources.
Supreme Decree        ministries, FNDR, and    sytmf~alcnrl              the SIGMA and        th  IM an
25875 - on the        FPS                      gor~ctmnsre,              SYSER system for      SY.RytmIe           Perception of less
implementation of                              FPS =n t                  all central             ctra              corruption as reported
SIGMA (integrated     Enactment of modern                                government                                through ongoing surveys.
financial             Public Procurement       S         et       n      ministries, FNDR,     4i      -,N
management system).  Law acceptable to IDA.  Na            Se     rvic e FPS, Customs
Seri4ce, 3D       ~Service, 9 PrefecturesCiomSeical
Promulgation of       Government                                                             nt       andllOand 110 
legislation (norma)   expenditure data made   Pr t          -.           municipalities       !r0 .. 
on procurement.       widely available to the                            through 09/30/2002.           t
public.                   i.enidtrslretdb
Government has                                 olIW(G)f                  External auditor's   0/1274
presented a revised   Satisfactory             FNIad?Sadtd               opinion (CGR) on
action plan to        implementation of plan    fnca  lz       t         the financial          xnladr
implement agreed      for improving            t        W30   00         statements of all    (CiR o t
measures under the    accountability and action   p n.                   central government    fiialt ts
CPAR.                 plan for implementation                            ministries, National    tflcta
of CPAR and CFAA           I                      Customs Service, 3t
recommendations.         ip0ietioofln             Prefectures,     ~      ute~Ntoa
for Improving      Superintendencies,   CntzsSvi, l
acceta~1liy an acion and 50             P~trs
plnfointplweftttion Municipalities.     S~mtnciis
Benchmarks ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ o for1 aSAC 11,A PSC 11 ad SA   Vreinictie
Benchmarks i d r e q o integrated financial tneir ntdoac i to
management system
(SIGMLA) operational
in all Prefectures and
15 largest
Municipalities.
Satisfactory
implementation of
plan for improving
accountability and
action plan for
implementation of
CPAR and CFAA
recommendations.
Benchmarks for PSAC II, PSAC III, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



-51 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                    BENCHMARKS
l                 I st Credit;                       PR I 1                PRSC II             PRSC III             OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001  I Tranche 2: Jan-2002        iahu-2003              Jan-2004            Jan-2005 
A.2. Objective: Enhancing Community Participation
Issue N6: Commnnity    Presentation to        Enactment of Law on   S      tory             Satisfactory         Satis1fctory       Adoption of participatory
$roup  especially the  Congress of a Draft    the Dialogo Nacional.  impletnentstion and    implementation of    implebentation of    planning procedures that
poor and nigenous      Law on the Dialogo                           monitorg of the Law     participatory        P_icIstry          are flexible and build upon
peopes, lack proper    Nacional.                                    on DiaaW  Nacional.    planning procedures   phnniigprocedures  indigenous or local
meansrto effectively                                                                        and social control   ad soealcontrol    community decision-
paicipate in local affaits  GOB to have presented   Presentation of  SatisfWlory            mechanisms at the    echanisns at the    making values and
and exert social ontrol.   an acceptable plan to    legislation to  implementation of       local level.        loeatlevel.         processes (including
enhance broad-based    introduce              pattiy planiag                                                 indigenous conflict
representation        participatory planning  procedwes and social                                           resolution methods).
(including women and    procedures and social   control mechanisms at
indigenous groups) and   control mechanisms at  the lo  level.
to develop and        the local level.
implement participatory
planning procedures
that are flexible and
build upon indigenous
or local community
decision-making values
and processes and
addressing the
strengthening of
indigenous
municipalities.
Benchmarks for PSAC II, PSAC III, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 52 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                          BENCHMARKS
ISt Credit                                                   PRSC II              P RSC m                OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001     Tranche 2: Jan-2002                                   Jan-2004             J~~
l.a.. #1~~~ Ttui~~cunuat ~GOB to have presented                             0~Satisfactory                                        Indigenous peoples content
#t1$nI~~rtowitoriai                              a plan to establish    $_tl*                      implementation and                          with level of representation
3da~i~IsnIi*R.4bcs not    special districts for                             monitoring of the                          in local government.
ino~u4e ~osej~AUtlebfor tm.rindigenous peoples                            p fot  Plan.
ittdlgamn4 posjps to                             through consensus                                                                             New delineation of districts
m  -- - # ;   series municipalitie GOBtoheesser                                                                                                     municipalities.
0 Sa 2 i 0000: ~j0GOB tCohababaan santiosfasnctosry                                                                                     Vsiblei incregarstoebictizevesn*
jwtkip~tion lit J0ge     approved the decrelo                                                       implementation of                          participation and public
urban m:  i iticijialltl   sunsreglamentario to the                                                deceto  as                                             efriciency
to cellizediiueittlpal    Law of Municipalities                                       e             reglamentario and                          through the creation of
1t0 stnjcture   3   .. :in its aspects dealing                                                 monitoring of the      en t rutbsinter-municipal consortia
and iu~fioentteritoial with mancomnunidades.                       bu~iu.plan.ifia"v4ne    (mancomunidades) and
administration,                                                                                                                                districts at the level oferindebtedasof  largeningel  .--    3  dic t e oa
urban municipalities
B. 1. Objective: Restoring Fiscal Discipline
issue #* Fiscal        Satisfactory Convenios  Satisfactory level of                             Satisfactory level of                      Municipalities capa be of
Benchm,liticarks  deot P IS    ,Sfor the          performance for                     fperformance for                                         generating positive primary
Benchmarol finBold and red arimplementation of the   implementation of    uimplementation of                                                   current account balances
govennient~~.      Debt Restructuring      Debt Restructuring                    Prga1       Debt Restructuring    l~lR4ttttig           and complying with
Program with Ist        Program with Ist        wihProgram with                                 Prg       ihcreditworthiness criteria.
series municipalities   series municipalities   i __           rg4s participating               ptkpt~
(La Paz, Santa Cruz,    (Government applying   t  etlvIidbt               municipalities in      nicltesn
Cochabamba, and         sanctions as necessary  idvc ~l$regards to debt levels   erdtoub
Tarija) finalized.      as per the Convenios).  fO          $1lI~         and debt service        *lndeb
sat~ctionsij~~ ~s ratios(Government       QvOtIS
Introduction of a       Satisfactory Convenios  pih   *two4               applying sanctions as   (~nmn
sunset clause to the    for the                                           necessary as per the    apyn  ecin
Programa de             implementation of the                             Convenios).           aieisiiya  e
Readecuaci6n            Municipal Debt                                                          tSiei*
Financiera, limiting    Restructuring
eligibility to those    Program with
municipalities          remaining eligible
overindebted as of      municipalities
12/31/2000             finalized.
Benchmarks for PSAC II, PSAC III, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 53 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                       BENCHMARKS
I St Credit                         pCI                  PRSC 11              PRSC II              OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001      Tranche 2: Jan-2002         1an-2003              Jan-2004
B.2. Objective: Strengthening the Financial and Institutional Capacity of Decentralized Public Administration to Deliver Services
Issue #10. Institutional   GOB has presented a  PAI becomes a         GOB has prasented an     Satisfactory                              Poor people to report on
capacity at all levels of    plan for the      condition for access to  independent evaluntion    implementation of                       improved departmental
governuno  to implement  implementation of a   investment financing    on impleneatation of    capacity building                          and municipal service
and stetef              participatory evaluation   by FPS and FNDR.   capwity buildlg plan,    plan.                                      delivery.
dectralltaion plpcess.   of the impact of                             acco4g to established
inclti*n municipal      capacity strengthening    New capacity building    benchmarks.                                                   Greater participation of
capaty to manage l4cal   programs for          mechanisms designed,                            Piloting of civil                         civil society (including
finnces aNddeliver      municipalities and     including                                       society (including                         private sector) in the
public svices,          prefectures on the     implementation plan                             private sector)                            provision of local public
delivery of public     with objective, and                            participation in the                       services.
services.              quantifiable and                               delivery of local
measurable                                     public services.                           Better provision of local
GOB to have included    benchmarks.                                                                              public services.
the PAI (Institutional
Reform Plan) as an     GOB to have presented
instrument for         participatory
improving budgetary,    methodology for
financial management,   service delivery      Sa&idetOy application                         S      a             Higher level of revenues
and administrative     monitoring.            OJPAt as al i teim ew                           Sic}4 as  raised locally.
capacity at the                               for,t l v badgat    Satisfactory              alt.watIM11iMt
municipal level in the    Satisfactory application  8       - -  .    application of PAI as     b                Improved efficiency in
operations manuals of    of PAI as an instrument  _      coocly at   an instrument for       id f    al          resource allocation at the
FNDR and FPS.          for improving          ti m             and a   improving budgetary             c8p   local level.
budgetary and financial        ibta0e55        and financial        af*t:e
5 PAls signed.         management capacity at     i    ti       by    management capacity  ad ,cilion .b
the municipal level and   PS    10             at the municipal level    a  t   innt 
a condition for access to                      and a condition for
investment financing by                        access to investment   P t           :
FPS and FNDR.                                  financing by FPS and
FNDR.
Benchmarks for PSAC 11, PSAC 111, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 54 -
OBJECTIVE/ISSUE                                                          BENCHMARKS
St Credit                               S =    1 I           PRSCPRSCPC II                     .          OUTCOMES
Tranche 1: May-2001  I  Tranche 2: Jan-2002           J     .    ,            Jan-2004              Ja -2OOS
B.3. Objective: Improving the Availability of Credit Financing for Municipal Investments
1|se py Oto have         GOB will make                    -         : - ithe   Estishmen of  S     F: Nln on            Creditworth
lf t0edit                nextttthg f~r  committed to promoting   available municipal               pilot rediscounting                          municipalities have
itieip~litIee   the development of a     debt indicators from      hnfv oighe              facility in NAFIBO    I~JX  t~p~k            improved access to capital
municipal credit market  PALs. ifor municipal credit                                                                  markets in order to
and promoting FNDR  n   conditionsfinance their investment
as a financial entity that  GOB to have (i)     %QXt   ae   i.pieW)programns.
specializes in municipal  presented a plan to
credit.                 develop the municipal                                                                         Greater participation of
credit market, including                                                                      private capital in the
GOB to present a legal   the establishment of                                                                         financing of municipal
opinion confirming the   mechanisms for risk                                                                          capital investment
legality of the use of  assessment and                                                                                programs.
revenue intercepts as   municipal credit
collateral to municipal    enhancement; and (ii)             l4S
credit operations with    initiated preparation of           e~gSatisfactory
any lender.             a corporate strategy               beautd         implementation of                    o
plan for FNDR.    ~      b       ~FNDR's financing
Satisfactory FNDR                                                         policies (to be
Operational Manual,   Independent audit            ~ap~f evaluated by means                        ~       4I#
including appropriate   contracted to verify                       by     of a statistically
risk assessment         the implementation of                             representative sample  '
mechanisms and their   FNDR's financing                                   of investments
use, finalized and      policies,                                         financed by FNDR)                INR
publicized.
Adequate funding of
FNDR to have            FNDR on the basis of
adopted a restrictive    previously agreed plan.
policy on the financing
of prefecturas to
investment projects
which are solely their
responsibility.A4q   f.i*go
GOB to agree on a plan                           reislaredpn.             Adequate funding of Adqaeunigo
to fund FNDR over the                                                     FNDR on thc basis of  FD   nlebsso
next four years.                                                          previously agreed     priosyaee
plan.pl.
Benchmarks for PSAC II, PSAC III, and PSAC IV are indicative.
Benchmarks in Bold and red are sine qua non conditions for tranche disbursement and program continuation.



- 55 -
ANNEX4-
SOCIAL APPRAISAL:
MAKING DECENTRALIZATION WORK FOR POOR PEOPLE
1.     This Annex summarizes the justification for, and the substance of, support by the proposed
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) to ensure efficient and effective conformity of
decentralization measures with: (i) poverty reduction objectives; and (ii) the effective implementation of
mechanisms for accountability of government to its citizens (in particular the poor and indigenous
communities and to women as well as men).
The Context: Poverty & Social Exclusion in Bolivia
"The country's principal challenge is to reduce poverty, to overcome social inequalities
and to eliminate social, cultural, ethnic and gender exclusion, making way for equality of
opportunity and an improvement in the distribution of income"
General Economic and Social Development Plan 1997-2002
(PRESIDENCY OF THE REPlBLIC)
2.     Bolivia is difficult to grasp conceptually. Each of its four distinctive geographical zones (Tarija-
Chaco; Santa Cruz-Beni; Pando; La Paz-Oruro-Potosi-Chuquisaca) is a world in itself. The sense of
fragmentation is not helped by the poor road integration of the country, the low population density and the
relative isolation of the Departmental capitals from each other. Bolivia is a mosaic of different, almost
separate Bolivias in which both government and civil society have historically been poorly integrated -
geographically, ideologically and culturally. The challenge of decentralization is both to support local
citizen empowerment for poverty reduction while not exacerbating this historical legacy.
The Poor
3.     Slightly less than two thirds of Bolivia's population are poor (as measured in monetary terms) and
slightly more than one third of the population live in extreme poverty. Poverty affects half of the population
in large cities, two thirds in other urban areas and 80% in rural areas.'4
4.     Livelihood strategies in Bolivia have changed significantly over the last twenty years. There has
been a strong tendency for the number of full-time small scale agricultural producing households to decline
with a complementary expansion of households engaged in small-scale provision of services, artisanal
activities, commerce and transport. In 1997 18% of economically active men and 15% economically active
women living in rural areas were engaged in non-agricultural activities.
5.     The key theme emerging from  the World Bank 1999 Consultations with the Poor study
(Consultando con Los Pobres), especially in rural areas, is the emphasis placed on concern for economic
well being and greater livelihood security, combined with a belief that the State has a role to play in helping
people achieve this. Concern about access to basic social services only becomes more important in the
urban areas. This difference in emphasis may well reflect both the historical evolution of social policy
during the last fifty years, as well as the reality of poverty in Bolivia where by most quantitative indicators,
poverty is deeper and more widespread in the countryside. Improved well-being is seen by poor people as a
long-term problem, requiring individual/family effort, often trans-generational and particularly through
14 World Bank, Bolivia Poverty Diagnostic, 2000.



- 56-
education of children. But the poor also perceive well-being as a "right," the absence of which is an
injustice.
6.    Although the human development index for Bolivia has continued to improve over the last fifty
years, and on aggregate stands currently at 0.652, there is wide variation among Departments. Thus, the
poorest Department, Potosi is only at 0.434. This last decade has led to a substantial increase in access to
services although there are considerable regional variations and the quality and efficiency of recurrent
expenditures remains low. The trend is for an increasing inter-regional difference in the index. On the
basis of these trends, the Bolivia UNDP Human Development Report (2000) predicts that by 2004 the
department of Santa Cruz will have an average HDI double that of Potosi. Bolivia is also the only one of
four HIPC2 countries in Latin America for which the HDI ranking is below the GDP ranking.
7.    The last decade has seen a rapid increase in urban population. Overall population growth is 2.4%,
but urban growth is 3.9% and rural growth only 0.1%, due to ongoing migration, which has now taken the
urbanization ratio to 65%. Many urban households maintain strong links with rural areas; in parts of the
altiplano. The rural landless are amongst those in deepest poverty. An increasing number of rural
households are dependent on income from the urban members of their extended family networks. The
pattern of migration has considerable significance for the processes of decision-making at the municipal
level because the livelihood strategies of many poor people in Bolivia mean a regular movement backwards
and forwards between town and country.
Health
8.    Health indicators in Bolivia are particularly low. New figures from the WHO indicate that Bolivia
has the lowest average healthy life expectancy in Latin America. From poor people's own perspective,
investment in education is given a higher priority than in health services. Public sector health provision has
by and large failed to respond to poor people's, particularly indigenous women's concerns. Strengthened
participation of the socially excluded in local level decision making concerning resource allocation should
therefore be a challenge to traditional delivery systems for social services.
The "Indigenous"
9.    There are conflicting data concerning the proportion of the population which is perceived/perceives
itself as "indigenous." According to UNDP, the indigenous population is 60%. According to the last three
censuses, about half the population speaks an indigenous language as their mother tongue (although the
majority of these also speak Spanish). In the Andean region they make up the great majority of the rural
population and over half of the urban population of whom 2.5 million are Quechua speaking and 1.6
million Aymara. In the lowlands there is an indigenous population of some 150,000 speaking a large
number of different languages. The recent crisis in Bolivia has brought the issue of ethnic discrimination
and racial prejudice out into the open. Social exclusion was discussed at the 2000 Consultative Group and
will be a major item for the CG next year.
10.   Bolivia has had a long tradition of "modernizing incorporation". This refers to processes which
increase the unity and coherence of the national state by absorbing the culture and forms of organization of
the country's indigenous majorities and minorities, in a clearly subordinate position, into those of the
dominant Western/Christian tradition. It is arguable whether the laws of decentralization and popular
participation will speed up this process or alternatively give greater recognition to indigenous social
structures, patterns of organization and value systems with greater redistribution of public sector resources
going to indigenous communities. Recognition of the ethno-cultural diversity of Bolivia now has a



- 57-
significant place on the national agenda but for political activists among the indigenous populations there
remains a fundamental disjunction that exists between the political map of modem Bolivia and the contours
and boundaries of the remaining organization of pre-Colombian America.
Gender Discrimination
11.   Gender discrimination has been an increasingly public topic. Important legislative progress has
been made but there are major issues in the new labor reform legislation concerning the theoretical impact
on women's employment rights. There is a quota for women's representation in local government but it is
not working well with for example, male candidates pretending to be women and many women resigning
their places to men soon after they take up office.
12.   The Government's "Beijing Plus 5" report notes important advances in incorporating the gender
dimension in education and health policies as well as in redefining violence against women as a public
policy issue. However it highlights the need to integrate social policies generally and gender equality
policies specifically into the economic policy sphere, particularly in regard to employment and productivity.
The World Bank's Consultations with the Poor study reveals a perception of changing gender roles.
Nevertheless, while women are seen as having more power than in the past at the community level, men are
still expected to take the lead in public decision-making.
Role of Municipalities
13.    The role of municipalities in promoting local-level growth and employment remains a policy issue.
Some see the role of the municipalities as being primarily a social service delivery function, as reflected in
much of mainstream thinking to date about social investment funds and in the questions posed to
municipalities in the National Dialogue (for details on National Dialogue see Section 3). A study quoted in a
CEP report for Dutch Development Cooperation" pointed out that the mayors of the 94 municipalities
studied prefer social investment to satisfying the real productive demands of Bolivia's peasantry: it is easier
to build a health center than to design a phytosanitary training PSAC. On the other hand, findings from the
National Dialogue indicate that despite the way questions were posed, many municipal representatives want
to give much greater priority to the concept of the "municipio productivo."
Social Exclusion & Protest
14.    Social exclusion has influenced the pattern of political participation in Bolivia. It is sometimes
argued that the 1994 Law of Popular Participation (LPP) failed to deliver on its inclusive objectives
because the political parties will not release their control over the management of local communities (the
organizaciones territoriales de base or OTBs). But whether intended or otherwise, the legal process for
registering as an OTB has resulted in the capture of some OTBs by political parties and, thus, some are not
regarded as genuine community "base organizations."16 The failure of political parties to incorporate the
interests of poor groups has led to many organizations representing poor people to resort to social unrest
and protest to successfully achieve short-term goals; e.g., blocking public highways.
15 Ibid.
1 6 See the opinion of sample communities in the WB Consultations with the Poor exercise.



- 58 -
Social Organization & the Law of Popular
Participation (LPP)
15.    As noted in the preceding section, the
Bolivian context is characterized by a highly               l
diverse and poorly integrated society which is
affected by racial prejudice and poverty, much of
which is gender related and "indigen ized." All
communities interface with a broad grouping of                  l
different  institutions  which  constitute  "civil
society" (or elements of it).
16.    A  primary  objective  of the  Popular
Participation  Law  (LPP) was to  substantially
increase the participation of Bolivian citizens in
local community and local government decision-
making. Particular attention has been given to the
establishment of: (i) participatory planning methods  m
at the municipal government level; and (ii) legally
effective recognition of indigenous communities.
17.    With  respect to the degree to which
different institutions play a role in the lives of
communities, the World Bank's Consultations With
the Poor study indicated  that overall, self-help  1 
groups, ad hoc informal committees, the churches,
NGOs and the health and education posts were viewed positively. Authorities, central and municipal
government, and OTBs were viewed more negatively. There was a feeling that community participation
within municipalities and OTBs was being limited, and that these institutions are inefficient or corrupt. The
state is often seen as the "enemy" and there is a strong public perception that politicians and public officials
do not play by the rules. At times of crisis, an institutional vacuum is perceived, and the poor fall back on
family resources, reciprocity networks and their churches.
NGOs
18.    NGOs represent a small but very visible sector within civil society. Many have filled the void left
by the state in service-delivery and are associated closely with grassroots organizations. The Catholic
Church is a very influential actor in Bolivia. It has often been a promoter of human rights and democracy
and openly criticized the military dictatorship regimes. Some of the best known NGOs (e.g.,Fe y Alegria)
in Bolivia are affiliated to the Catholic Church. In recent years, some Protestant denominations have also
gained prominence in Bolivia. The rural community-based sindicato is still seen as one of the primary
institutions by campesinos.
Participatory Municipal Planning
19.    Municipal Planning.  The Government's Manual for participatory municipal development
planning emphasizes the importance of the involvement of as many people as possible and provides
guidelines as to how to achieve that objective. The inclusion of poor and indigenous people, particularly



- 59 -
those living in isolated communities, women, and migrants, is an enormous challenge and to date has only
been partially achieved.
20.    The LPP also created another key community level actor -- the Vigilance Committee (VC) -- which
monitors the management of municipal resources. The VC is composed of one representative from each
municipal district as elected by the OTBs within the district. One of the functions of the VC is to ensure
that no more than a legally agreed percentage of central government transfers are spent on municipal
administrative costs"7. VCs can also request independent audits of municipal governments and report any
irregularities to the Finance Ministry. The Ministry must then investigate and report to Congress within 30
days. If the complaint is accepted and proven, the municipality's funding can be frozen indefinitely by
Congress.
21.   Nevertheless, "empowerment" of ordinary people is not sufficient.  Equally important is the
demonstration of greater sensitivity to citizen demands and demonstrated transparency by municipal
government officials. It is difficult -- if not impossible -- for poor and indigenous people to participate in
legally established mechanisms for planning and "social control" (the meaning of which in Bolivia is, in
effect, the ability of civil society to substantially influence government decision-making and service
delivery) without the demonstrated support of local government officials and/or effectively accountable
leadership of civil society organizations. In particular, women's participation has often been tokenistic and
appropriate mechanisms for promoting this participation are lacking.
22.    The LPP has generated an irreversible mobilization of human and financial resources in areas
traditionally forgotten and has been credited with strengthening some traditional organizations. However,
despite reasonable success in achieving improved efficiency of communal service delivery of participatory
planning procedures currently in place, in many cases indigenous populations have been excluded.
Vigilance Committees have also been found to function less smoothly than longer-standing traditional
organizations. They are usually under-resourced which makes them dependent on the mayor and, thus,
highly unlikely to speak out against municipal councils. Furthermore, under the LPP, VCs do not have
oversight over the entire municipal budget. Nor do they have the right to check for consistency in between
the municipal development plan (PDM) and the annual operational plan (POA).
23.    Despite the existence of the Manual to guide municipal officials through the participatory planning
process, current practice in many municipalities appears to fall short of the ambitious objectives set for
them. This is because: (i) "participation" is generally limited to poverty diagnoses (i.e., only to the very first
stage of the planning process); (ii) training has tended to focus on securing compliance with norms rather
than transferring capabilities; and (iii) capacity-building within OTBs has been largely limited to training of
OTB leaders rather than addressing broader institutional development of the OTB as a whole. And in any
event, OTB leaders are often disempowered to negotiate effectively with municipal authorities.
24.    Finally, officially established "participatory" planning procedures are fairly inflexible and do not
build on-nor adapt to-indigenous or local community decision-making values and processes (including
indigenous conflict resolution methods). In such circumstances, communities sometimes choose to allocate
available resources in ways that avoid internal conflict. The result is too often investments that benefit
neither the poor nor the non-poor. A further problem has been the imposition of a sector-based planning
17 The percent was agreed to be fifteen although the feasibility ofthis proportion has been seriously questioned and is under revision.



- 60 -
process that is alien to ordinary poor people who have a holistic concept of poverty that does not conform
with the disaggregated sectoral priorities of public sector ministers or municipal departments.
Community-Level Planning
25.    Strengthening "social control" (ie., accountability) mechanisms is a necessary but not sufficient
means to ensure that poor and indigenous people properly influence local governments. Equally important
is enhancing poor and indigenous peoples' participation in local level decision-making, including
participation in a process that ensures effective accountability. In addition to creating hundreds of new
municipalities, the LPP gave legal recognition to over 12,000 territorially-based organizations
(organizaciones territoriales de baselOTBs) which were defined as "peasant communities, indigenous
peoples and neighbourhood associations, organised according to their norms, customs or statutory
dispositions" (LPP 1994, Article 3, 1). Legally registered OTBs have jurisdiction over a given territory and
have rights and obligations within municipal governance including the production of a community-level
contribution to the participatory Municipal Development Plan (PDM) process. OTBs are also collectively
responsible for co-managing LPP resources as well as for scrutinising over use of assets and income
assigned to the municipality.
26.    The involvement of popular organizations, such as OTBs, in participatory planning and monitoring
processes is not in and of itself sufficient to achieve this. Although the LPP was based ongeographic units
of social organization, communities also relate to many other forms of organization based onfunction or
common interest. Indeed, a recent press articlels highlighted the inability of many mayors to fully involve
OTBs in the planning process as well as the weak representativity of some Vigilance Committees. The
article noted that the many functional organizations which were left at the margins of the LPP (e.g., the
Church, producers' organizations, women's groups) may need to be involved in order to improve the way
the law is applied. Thus, organizations which represent the interests of ordinary citizens must also be held
accountable to those constituents.
Stakeholder Analysis & Participation
27.   No formal social assessment was undertaken at the preparation stage of this PSAC. However,
during preparation, IDA organized two workshops with municipal government and Vigilance Committee
representatives to present the proposed PSAC, identify potential risks as well as specific limitations at the
municipal level which could impede the achievement of the PSAC's goals, and to identify suggestions for
achieving effectiveness.
28.   It is worth highlighting two of the themes which emerged as they clearly resonate with the National
Dialogue and the points made above. The first is that the populations' social control function through the
Vigilance Committees must be strengthened in light of the inadequate management of resources by
municipalities. In addition, Vigilance Committees are unable to fulfill their role of informing civil society
and, among other things, need to be trained to understand laws. The second very strong message regarded
access to information. Suggestions included: creation of windows for complaints and direct access to
information regarding projects and financing; organization of regional workshops on the reform;
organization by the DUF of a massive dissemination of its policy to municipalities and civil society;
intensive and detailed dissemination by municipal governments including through radio, TV, seminars &
workshops in each municipality; periodic meetings at national level to inform about Funds' supply; massive
18 "Las Alcaldias Trabajaron mal?," La Raz6n (Noember 19, 2000).



- 61 -
dissemination of the requirements for presenting projects (specifically for municipal credit); and, internet
access and publications by the Funds.
29.   IDA also commissioned a survey of municipalities. Through a questionnaire (in both English and
Aymara), the survey asks municipal stakeholders from a national sample a series of questions related to the
implications of the PSAC for municipalities.  The objectives are: (1) to ascertain the degree of
support/resistance/opposition from the municipal stakeholders; and (2) to identify the municipalities'
possible reactions to the new incentive framework to be introduced with the PSAC. The- survey results have
not been analysed yet but will be taken into account as part of the ongoing social impact assessment to be
undertaken in the PSAC.
30.   Finally, PSAC preparation took place during the implementation of a "National Dialogue" process
which was held between June and September 2000. The objective of this broad-based participatory
consultative process was for Bolivian society to express its views and priorities on the Government's
planned Poverty Reduction Strategy. The shape of the National Dialogue evolved during implementation.
Eventually there were three separate consultations, all of which involved the active participation of senior
ministers at the national level: (1) with local govermuent leaders at the municipal level, plus civil society
organizations at the departmental level, concluding in a national consultation, focused primarily focused on
how to spend the resources available from the debt relief; (2) at the departmental, sectoral and national level
with economic actors ranging from representatives of micro-entrepreneurs to big business; and, (3) with
political parties on issues of constitutional reform and economic policy, aiming to achieve a "political
summit" in which all parties would agree to a common agenda.
31.   Many of the messages and agreements emerging from the National Dialogue confirm the situation
described above. Within the public administration system, the National Dialogue called for a more correct
application of the LPP at the municipal level and a reform of decentralization. The Dialogue called for an
expansion of political representation to include indigenous and citizen organizations and institutions, as well
as to institutionalize participatory mechanisms; e.g., the Dialogue itself. A clear statement on corruption
was made and suggestions to address the problem included citizen training programs, institutionalization
and transparency of public posts with civil society participation, and more active popular participation in
control mechanisms. Finally, with respect to poverty-reduction funds, the role of the Vigilance Committee
as the primary mechanism of social control at the municipal level was reaffirmed. At the same time, the
weaknesses of the Vigilance Committees were fully recognized. As a result, one of the permanent actions to
be undertaken is institutional strengthening of the Committees.
Decentralization in Support of Poverty Reduction: PSAC Response
Poverty Reduction Issues
32.   Substantive reform of the institutional framework for the inter-governmental fiscal and financial
transfer system to improve efficiency, transparency and accountability in Bolivia's decentralized public
administration requires action both within and outside government.  Effective as well as efficient,
channeling of public sector financial and human resources to poverty reduction will not succeed unless
those living in poverty have an influential voice in the planning and monitoring of how these resources are
allocated and used. Hence, making local government work for poor people can only be achieved through
institutional reform of the public sector combined with simultaneous action for strengthening the
mechanisms for social control while building the capacity building for organizations of the poor so that
these strengthened social control mechanisms respond to their interests and concerns. As such, there are
specific actions to be undertaken with reference to each of the PSAC's areas of intervention.



- 62 -
33.    This section summarizes: (i) remaining social and participation issues with respect to the current
state of the Government's poverty-targeted decentralization program-with particular emphasis on
transparency, accountability, and poor people's participation-and (ii) outlines specific actions to be
supported by the PSAC for addressing those issues.
34.    The outline of Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy contains five objectives:
*  Increase and improve opportunities for the poor;
*  Expand the capacities of the poorer by increasing the quality of and access to education and
health services;
*  Reduce the vulnerability of the poor to shocks;
*  Strengthen the participation and integration of the poorest; and
*  Improve institutions and public administration to create a solid framework for the
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy.
35.    Strengthening decentralization in Bolivia is judged both by State and civil society actors as the key
to the achievement of these poverty reduction objectives. It has been argued that the more that power and
financial control are devolved to lower levels of government, the greater the opportunity for people to be
involved in the decisions which affect their lives on a daily basis. Bolivia is among a number of countries
that have taken steps to encourage this process but there has been little systematic attempt to document the
effectiveness of these measures in enabling the participation of poor and excluded groups in decision
making processes. Qualitative studies suggest that in a number of cases a gap exists between legal and
institutional measures and practice on the ground where decision making is often dominated by powerful
local elites. The evidence suggests that decentralization may enhance the enjoyment of their human rights
by poor and excluded people, but only if it takes place within the context of a regulatory and political
framework which promotes the equal rights of all people (DFID, Human Rights TSP, 2000). Bolivia enjoys
such a framework. Nevertheless, bearing in mind Bolivia's history of structural social exclusion and
discrimination, some key actions are required to deliver on the PRSP objectives at the local level.
36.    One of the key ingredients for successful decentralization is the harmonization of responsibilities,
authority, resources and accountability both within government and between it and civil society (especially
among the poorest elements of society). Unfortunately, despite the initiatives taken to date, GOB does not
yet have in place a fully integrated and comprehensive policy that fulfils these basic requirements for
efficient and effective decentralization. Inadequate application of the subsidiarity principle" has kept
municipalities from developing into truly autonomous political entities with full accountability and
responsibility to their residents. Overlapping, uncoordinated responsibilities across all levels of government
obscure accountability and serve as a disincentive for efficient and responsive management of resources.
37.    The current legal framework for decentralization does not achieve the desired results because of
resource constraints, inadequate capacity, and counter-productive incentives. In practice, the ambiguity of
Bolivia's decentralization policy 'framework" has eroded Central Government accountability without
introducing new incentives or reliable mechanisms to increase accountability at the local level. The
continued dependence of local governments and communities on highly discretionary transfers and direct
19 The Principle of Subsidiarity is - most simply stated - that decision-making authority should be placed at the lowest appropriate level given
efficiency and effectiveness criteria.



- 63 -
expenditures by central government and Prefecturas makes them less responsive and accountable each to
the other. Under the present arrangements, fiscal dependency is intimately tied to vulnerability to political
influence by central level political parties and government coalitions.2,, Thus, municipalities have yet to take
full advantage of their legal autonomy to efficiently manage resources for the achievement of poverty
reduction or otherwise meet citizen demands at the local level.
PSAC Responses
38.    Efficient and effective channeling of public sector resources toward poverty reduction will not
succeed unless those living in poverty have an influential voice in the planning and monitoring of
investment decision-making. Hence, making local government work for poor people can only be achieved
through a combination of efforts: (i) institutional reform of the public sector; (ii) simultaneous action for
strengthening mechanisms for "social control;" and (iii) building the capacity of organizations of the poor
and other excluded groups to hold governments at all levels accountable to their interests and concerns.
Ensuring conformity with these aspects of the PSAC's objectives will require specific actions to be
implemented within all of its areas of intervention.
39.    Nevertheless, a recognition that achievement of strategic and comprehensive poverty-targeted
decentralization objectives requires, among other things, efficient and effective mechanisms for both
"voice" and "entrance" of the poor does not mean that the Bolivia PSAC for Decentralization intends to
comprehensively address all dimensions of the Government's broader decentralization "program." Several
other complementary initiatives are underway or planned. The Bolivia PSACfor Decentralization is closely
linked to a wide variety of other initiatives supported by both IDA and other donor agencies which address:
(i) complementary institutional improvements on thesupply-side; and (ii) new innovative approaches which
provide direct support to both formal and non-formal groups on the demand-side. Significant current
initiatives include: (i) IDA's Institutional Reform and Participatory Rural Investment projects; (ii) the Inter-
American Development Bank's Financial Decentralization and Municipal Investment projects; (iii) GTZ's
PROAS Program; and (iv) USAID's Municipal Strengthening Project. In addition, several donors -
including DFID, The Netherlands, and Germany - have begun discussions among themselves, GOB, and
IDA with a view to identifying a new multi-ESA financed project to support, in parallel with thePSAC, the
Government's efforts to fonnulate an integrated and comprehensive decentralization policy framework and
program strategy.
40.   Initiatives to support institutional strengthening on the formal and non-formaldemand-side are less
well developed. Nevertheless, there are aspects of the Government's USAID-financed Democratic
Development and Citizen Participation (DDCP) project which are applicable; and DFID is in the early
stages of identifying a ("Mirror") project explicitly intended to parallel supply-side institutional reforms
with the objective of strengthening the demand side through enabling poor people to gain greater access to
the information they need to hold the public sector accountable.
Strengthening Transparency, Accountability & Participation
41.    Building on the Law of Popular Participation (1994), the Administrative Decentralization Law
(1995), and the Municipal Law (1999), the Government's draft Letter of Development Program to the IDA
20 There is preliminary evidence that allocations of IFS investment resources have been influenced by partisan considerations. SeeFrom
Patronage to a Professional State: Bolivia Institutional and Governance Review, 2000



- 64 -
(see Annex 2) reinforces it's commitment to poverty-focused decentralization and its recognition that
effective decentralization requires transparency, accountability, and participation of excluded groups.
42.    Although some progress has been made toward greater transparency of government investment
decisions at all levels and the management of public sector service delivery, much remains to be done. For
example, for indigenous peoples to enjoy their right to information about the debt alleviation process
specific actions and mechanisms must be put in place. At the moment, there are no legal requirements for
the publication, through mass media channels easily accessible to the general public, of specific government
investment decisions, resources allocated in support of those decisions, nor the results of performance
audits of projects implemented to achieve the objectives of those decisions. Under the terms of the PSAC,
all central, prefectural or internationally supported projects in a given municipality will be listed and
publicly reported as a contribution to the transparency of governmental investment decisions to their
citizens.2
43.    To give practical effect to that requirement, a wide variety of methods to ensure that dissemination
of relevant information is not limited only to raw data nor to channels accessible only to formally educated
persons who read and/or understand the Spanish language will be sponsored by the PSAC. These will
include: (i) technical assistance to municipalities that lack sufficient administrative capacity to meet
minimum transparency requirements and, if necessary, preparation and publication of required information;
(ii) training of local newspaper, radio, television, and selected NGO staff in the analysis and interpretation
of financial decisions and performance in a manner which enables ordinary citizens to understand relevant
consequences; (iii) special quarterly print editions and radio/television broadcasts of relevant data and
analyses in local languages (where relevant); (iv) quarterly "town crier" visits by selected local NGOs to
extend the dissemination of relevant data and analysis to isolated communities (where necessary); and (v)
annual workshops for selected representatives of civil society and municipal governments to discuss and
formulate appropriate operational responses to such data and analyses. Such a broad-based communication
strategy will ensure that the population as a whole, and poor men and women in particular, will be aware of
the substantive intent and actual performance of programs to support municipal infrastructure investment.
44.    Participatory municipal planning and monitoring in the context of democratic decentralization is a
methodology that can improve the accountability of local government to poor citizens. Nevertheless,
empowering poor citizens vis-a-vis local government and making governments more accountable to them is
no simple matter. The notion of accountability has often been assumed - incorrectly - to be synonymous
with transparency. In fact, transparency does not automatically result in accountability. Transparency
refers to the establishment of clear procedures and the removal of discretion by public officials in the
exercise of public affairs. Accountability includes transparency, but also involves the creation of
mechanisms to ensure transparency.
45.    The capacity of Vigilance Committees and OTBs to exercise their assigned responsibilities has been
discussed above (paras. 22, 26, 28, & 31). The PSAC will address the issues identified above with
particular emphasis on adjusting those perverse incentives that create obstacles to effective accountability.
The establishment of coherent intergovernmental fiscal and financial relations with effective arrangements
to ensure accountability to both creditors and citizens is expected to: (i) facilitate clarification of
responsibilities and resource assignments; (ii) accelerate progress toward sectoral decentralization; (iii)
enhance municipal governments' capacity to raise own source revenues and, thus, reduce dependency on
21 According to a recent inventory of intemationally supported projects for the social and rural development sectors, there are hundreds of
separate, largely uncoordinated projects worth more than US$1 billion, that are either going on or are about to begin.



- 65 -
Central Government transfers; and (iv) strengthen democratic governance (all issues to be addressed more
fully in subsequent phases).
46.   In support of the ambitious objective of establishing efficient and effective accountability
mechanisms among all levels of govermnent and between them and all Bolivian citizens, the PSAC will
provide broad support to consensus/coalition building efforts.  This will include establishment of
accountability mechanisms, as outlined below.
47.   In order to increase the accountability of government to its citizens and strengthen community
rights and duties with respect to public investment and service provision, the PSAC will sponsor studies to
identify and propose recommendations for decentralized procedural and structural reforms. Among the
latter may be included: (i) the extension of the responsibilities of Vigilance Committees over the entire
municipal budget; (ii) a regulation for the exercise of community rights to stop or modify public
investments and decisions deemed contrary to community interests (including the rights of poor and
indigenous people); and/or (iii) a regulation to establish the right of the public to obtain appropriate
information from government entities.
48.   Studies sponsored by the PSAC will be published and broadly disseminated so as to adequately
inform a systematic process of consultation with respect to potential changes to the legal and institutional
framework for decentralization. The process of consultation will include the conduct of: (i) civil society &
private commercial sector focus groups; and (ii) workshops among key organized stakeholder groups within
the Government, civil society, & the private commercial sector.
49.   In addition, under the terms of the PSAC, both FNDR (for credit financing of municipal
investments) and FNC (for matching grant financing of municipal investments) will ensure inclusion of
explicit and measurable mechanisms for municipal accountability to poor and indigenous people. Such
procedures will focus not only on accountability for the substance and quality of investment decision-
making; but will also focus on accountability for the performance of subsequent project implementation and
sustainable service delivery. With respect to measures for accountable local project implementation and
subsequent service delivery, provision will be made for sub-contracting to those civil society groups with
experience in poverty and gender-focused participatory planning and monitoring methodologies. Both
FNDR and FNC will design and implement an extensive and systematic program for the training (within
their respective spheres) of OTBs, TCOs, and other organizations that represent poor and indigenous people
across the interface between municipal governments and their citizens.
50.   Overall, the PSAC will enhance mechanisms through which poor and indigenous people (and the
organizations that directly represent them) can overcome structural and systemic barriers that might exclude
them from influencing decisions. With respect to the specific allocation of scarce resources in the context of
municipal fiscal rationalization plans, the PSAC will explore means to achieve this in the first phase.
51.   The PSAC will promote and support participation of a wide range of stakeholders, including central
government ministries (and other agencies), local governments, the legislature, political parties, private
commercial enterprises, and both formal civil society organizations and non-formal groups. The concern
here is ensuring the participation of the poor and socially excluded in investment decisions. More
specifically, it will support the establishment of mechanisms for effective participation, summarized below.
52.   Under the terms of the PSAC, a strong focus on the views and experience of poor and excluded
communities and people will be ensured. Methods to solicit those views will be designed into the studies
and consultation processes undertaken to meet the requirements of both Objectives A. I and A.2. Innovative



- 66 -
participatory methodologies will be used, drawing on the experience of NGOs and others, to ensure that the
studies will consult, in a systematic manner, the views and opinions of all local actors, including both poor
women and men.
53.   At least one study will focus on the inclusion of provisions for the effective participation of
indigenous peoples in the formulation of the new decentralization policy. That study will assess and, if
appropriate, propose mechanisms whereby Tierras Comunitarias de Origen (TCOs) and Municipal
Indigenous Districts (or their mancomunidades), may: (i) acquire the status of Indigenous Municipalities;
(ii) consolidate the nature of their relation within existing municipalities; and/or (iii) clarify the means of
access to local government through systems based on their usos y costumbres.
54.   In addition, the inclusion of explicit and measurable mechanisms for the participation of poor and
indigenous people in the investment decision-making and implementation process will be ensured through
criteria established by both FNDR and the new FNC. The Funds will only finance investments if they have
been prioritized through a participatory planning process carried out by each municipality. In those
municipalities benefiting from the IDA-funded Participatory Rural Investment Project (PRIP), activities in
relation to enhancing poor people's capacity to participate in planning and monitoring of municipal
expenditures will be closely coordinated with the work of the PRIP teams. Finally, participation of poor
and indigenous people in the implementation of community-based investment projects will be enhanced by
sub-contracting to civil society groups with experience in poverty and gender-focused participatory
planning and monitoring methodologies as well as through voluntary employment in labor intensive works.
55.   The Viceministry of Popular Participation is undertaking a study of the impact and cost-
effectiveness of municipal and community-strengthening programs implemented to date. The study will
take into account the opinions of all key stakeholders identified throughout this Annex. A focus on the
strengths and weaknesses of participatory planning at the municipal level will be an important focus of the
study, including consideration of: (i) cultural aspects of participatory planning methodologies and practices,
particularly with respect to the involvement of women, the use of local languages, and incorporation of
indigenous "worldviews" into the methodological repertoire; (ii) poverty-targeting criteria for PDM
formulation, in particular the effectiveness of the participation of excluded and marginalized groups
(including migrants, women and indigenous peoples); and (iii) generation of locally-determined criteria for
focusing resources on the poorest communities and groups within municipalities. The study will also
include a countrywide survey in both rural and urban municipalities, the purpose of which will be to
identify the range of innovative experiments to enhance poor people's capacity to influence municipal
government decision-making and performance through effective participation.  Funds will be available,
when needed, to support and strengthen these innovative approaches and to disseminate Bolivian "best
practice" experiences more widely through a range of activities, including study visits, videos, radio
interviews and discussions, seminars, and publications. Building on these innovative experiments, would
provide the opportunity for many more municipalities to better identify the local causes, characteristics and
consequences of poverty, to adjust their PDMs to respond to these and to reinforce the "social contror'
mechanisms so that they include the voices of poor people, including women and indigenous populations.
Lessons learned from these innovations may prove to be particularly valuable for the very small and often
very poor municipalities that must work in partnership with their neighbors through mancomunidades.
Requirements for On-Going Social Impact Analysis, Participatory Monitoring & Evaluation
56.   No formal social assessment was undertaken during the preparation stage of this PSAC. The
present annex was written on the basis of secondary literature, the results of the stakeholder workshops with
the municipalities and on the conclusions from the National Dialogue. The intention is however to



- 67 -
incorporate social impact analysis and participatory assessments into the monitoring and evaluation of the
PSAC's impact on reducing poverty and enhancing social inclusion.
57.   A scope of work for continuous social impact assessment will be developed in the first year by a
Poverty Monitoring specialist which DFID will second to the PSAC under modalities to be discussed.
58.    Participatory evaluation activities to be undertaken under the terms of the PSAC will include
(although not necessarily be limited to): (i) participatory focus group meetings; (ii) combinedreview &
action-planning workshops; (iii) bilateral meetings with NGOs and other organized groups; (iv) stratified
sample surveys; and, for the unorganized general public, (v) systematic public opinion surveys.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5 - BOLIVIA CPAR - ACTION PLAN FOR IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC CONTRACTING SYSTEM
PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Enact a modem Public    Min. of Finance    Analysis of current legal &
Procurement Law.       (Unid.de Normas)  institutional framework in public
procurement:
- Preparation of TOR             - Office of Standards     18.Sep.2000    15.Oct.2000   -
-Selection and contracting of    - Office of Standards     16.Oct.2000    15.Nov.2000  -
consultant services.
-Development of the study        - External Consultant     01.Dec.2000    30.Jan.2001   15,000
(including TOR for preparation of
the Procurement Law)
-GOB's decision on the legal     -Ministry of Finance      01.Feb.2001    28.Feb.2001   -
procurement instrument to be
adopted.
Preparation of the Procurement
Law:
-Selection and contracting of a  - Office of Standards     01.Mar.2001    30.Apr.2001   -
consultant firm.
-Development of a Procurement    -External Consultant      01.May.2001   3 I.Aug.2001   80,000
Law proposal
- Lobbying process and approval    - Ministry of Finance   01.Sep.2001    3 I.Dec.2001   100,000
____ ___ ___ ___ _ _  by  Congress.
2     Update local            Min. of Finance    - Local review process of Normas   - Office of Standards &  01.May.1998   30.Jul.2000   -
procurement standards    (Office of      Basicas.                          Private Sector
(Normas Bdsicas)       Standards)
- Joint review process of Normas    - Office of Standards &  4.Sep.2000   30.Sep.2000   -
Bdsicas: GOB and IDA, at local    IDA.
level.



- 69 -
NO   A C l I V I    Y       RSIPO\SIIBIT      I T    S ks                     S lTAKEHOLDERS/          FSI.IATV.   LSTINI S 1.   (OS I
E N r I T X                                      IPARI WIPAN[ S           ss rs   s-FIt -  I INISII    L\l I I  E
IL1)-\'1'Z'  1) VIi  ll SS)
3     Issue a code of ethics    Min. of Finance    Preparation of the Code of Ethics:
for mandatory use in    (Office of      -Selection of a consultant      - Office of Standards    01.Oct.2000   30.Oct.2000   -
public procurement.   Standards)       -Preparation of the Code and     - External Consultant    01.Nov.2000  30.Dec.2000  30,000
linkage to current legal instruments
(Estatuto del Funcionario Publico
and SAFCO Law) to provide it
statutory nature.
-Approval of the Code.         - Office Comptroller      02.Jan.2001   30.Jan.2001   -
-Code of Ethics into effectiveness   - Ministry of Finance  01.Feb.2001   28.Feb.2001   40,000
(including dissemination & public
advertisement)
4     Institutional capacity  Min. of Finance    Dissemination Campaign &
strengthening of public  (Office of     Procurement Training Program:
entities in procurement,  Standards)    - Selection of a consultant and  - Office of Standards   15.Jun,2000   01.Sep.2000   -
at the 3 levels of                      contracting
government.                            -Design of a dissemination       - External Consultant    04.Sep.2000   30.Oct.2000   44,000
campaign & procurement training
program (Normas Basicas and
NSBDs)
-Preparation and printing of   - Office of Standards &   01.Oct.2000   30.Dec.2000   100,000
dissemination material (brochures,  Specialized Printing
training guides, guidelines and  Service
SBDs)
-Selection of potential trainers.  - Office of Standards  01.Oct.2000   30.Oct.2000   -
-Implementation of the         - External Consultant     15.Nov.2000  30.Dec.2000  50,000
procurement training for future
trainers (in the use of Standards
and SBDs)
- Implementation of the        - External Consultant     02.Jan.2001   30.Dec.2001   300,000
dissemination campaign
- Implementation of the        -Office of Standards &    02.Jan.2001   30.Jun.2002   500,000
Procurement Training Plan      Selected trainers
(standards, SBDs, SICOES, C6de
of Ethics and Procurement Law)



- 70 -
5     Implementation of     Min. of Finance    SICOES
SICOES (Sistema       (Office of        -Feasibility analysis of high-speed   - Office of Standards/  15.Sep.2000    15.Nov.2000   40,000
Integrado de Compras    Standards)      accesss to Internet             ILACO
Estatales); SIGMA                       -Implementation of SICOES - 1st.  - Office of Standards  01.Oct.2000    30.Dec.2000   100,000
(Sistema Integrado de                   Stage (6 pilot agencies)
Gesti6ny                                -Implementation of SICOES- 2nd.   - Office of Standards  02.Jan.2001    30.Jun.2002
Modernizacion                           Stage.                                                                               340,000
Administrativa) and                     -Dissemination of & Training on    - Office of Standards &  02.Jan.2001    30.Jun.2002
EBMS (Electronic                        SICOES.                         Consultants
Bidding Management
System)                                 Electronic Bidding Management
System (EBMS)
- Study Tour.                  - Office of Standards    15.Oct.2000    15.Nov.2000   10,000
- System conceptual design:    - Office of Standards    15.Nov.2000   30.Dec.2000   -
selection of consultant and
contracting.
- Development of the system    - External Consultant    02.Jan.2001    31 .Jan.2001    50,000
conceptual design.
- Development & implementation    - External Consultant  01.Feb.2001    30.May.2001   300,000
of the EBMS (pilot stage)
- Development & overall        - External Consultant &  01.Jun.2001    30.Jun.2002    1,200,000
implementation (national level) of   Office of Standards
the EBMS.
- Overall dissemination & training   - External Consultant &  01.May.2001   30.Jun.2002    400,000
on the EBMS.                   Office of Standards



- 71 -
N0    \ C  l l V I T Y      RESI'ONSIBLE   I A  S K                           STAKIIHOL.DERSi        LSTINI %T.    ESI-I)I XT.    COST
EN I I ITY                                       PAR\IICIPA\NIS         STAR-1         FINISII       lSTINMATE
D k  I:.      D.\ I-E        l)
6     Design and issuing of    Min. of Finance   -Preparation of NSBDs & models   - Office of Standards /    01 Jun. 1999    30.Jul.2000
NSBDs and forms of    (Office of        of contratos                    Private Sector
agreements.           Standards)       -Joint Review of SBDs: BM-GOB   - Office of Standards /  16.Sep.2000    30.Sep.2000
IDA
-Incorporation of changes and  - Office of Standards   16.Sep.2000    30.Sep.2000
adjustments in SBDs and models
of contracts.
- Printing of documents for    - Specialized printing  01.Nov.2000   30.Dec.2000
distribution in the dissemination  services
campaign.
-Implementation of the         - Office of Standards &    02.Jan.2001    30.Dec.2001
dissemination campaign.        External Consultants
-Implementation of training    - Office of Standards &    02.Jan.2001    30.Jun.2002
program for adequate use of SBDs   External Consultants
and models of contracts.
7     Establish a national  Min. of Finance    Feasibility analysis &
accreditation system for  (Office of    identification of accreditation
public procurement    Standards)        options:
staff.                                  - Selection of consultant and   - Office of Standards  02.Jan.2001    28.Feb.2001
contracting.
- Development of a feasibility  - External Consultant  01.Mar.2001    30.Apr.2001    20,000
analysis and options of
accredoitation.
-Decision on the system to be  - Office of Standards   01.May.2001   30.May.2001   -
adopted.
Design of the accreditation system:
-Selection of consultant and   - Office of Standards   01.Jun.2001    30.Jul.2001   -
contracting.
-Design of the system.         - External Consultant   01.Aug.2001   30.Dec.2001    180,000
(Including the incorporation of
system requirements in the
Procurement Law]
- System under operation (first 2    - Regulatory agency  02.Jan.2002    31 .Dec.2003    800,000
years of accreditation)                               I             I              I_I



- 72 -
8     Create specific local  Min. of Finance.   Diagnostic analysis of current
standards for selection    (Office of   national consultant practices and
of consultants.       Standards)        specific proposal of local standards
(consultant firms and individuals):
-Preparation of TOR            - Office of Standards     01.Dec.2000   15.Dec.2000   -
-Selection of consultant and   - Office of Standards     02.Jan.200t   28.Feb.2001   -
contracting.                                             01.Mar.2001   30.Jun.2001   60,000
-Development of the diagnosis and   - Extemal Consultant
proposal of national consultant                          01.Jul.2001    3 I.Aug.2001  -
standards.
-GOB's approval of consultant  - Ministry of Finance     02.Jan.2002   30.Mar.2002  -
standards.
- Issuing of consultant standards.    - Ministry of Finance
9     Establish a national  Min. of Finance    Design & implementation of a
regulatory agency of                    national regulatory agency:
governmental                            - Review of other countries'    - Office of Standards    01.Dec.2000  30.Jan.2001
procurement.                            experience.
- Preparation of TOR           - Office of Standards     01.Feb.2001   15.Mar.2001
- Selection & contracting of a  - Office of Standards    16.Mar.2001  30.Jun.2001
international consultant firm for
design and creation of a regulatory
agency.
- Develop study of design and  - International Consultant   01.Jul.2001    3 1.Oct.2001   100,000
creation of a national regulatory
agency (including an
organizational structure proposed,
job descriptions and specialized
training requirements).
- GOB's approval of creation of a   - Ministry of Finance  01.Nov.2001  30.Dec.2001   -
national regulatory agency.
- Implementation of the national    - Ministry of Finance  02.Jan.2002   30.Jun.2002   400,000*
regulatory agency.



- 73 -
NC    \ C T I \' IT l       R IS P() NSIIB  LI .    S k                      SI XkLIII(LI)1[s         FS IIN] l.  I-S] IN I.   (OSI
L N Y I I                                            R I(K II Vi\lIS      SIlRIt        II   I I      I l.,IIs NI V
I) x I 1.    1}X 1'1'     (l Sss
10   Strengthen the ex post    Office         - Diagnostic study on institutional   Office Comptroller  02.Jan.2001   30.Jun.2002   500,000
role of the Office    Comptroller       strengthening needs on
Comptroller in public                   procurement performance audits.
procurement and                         - Design and implement a training
contracting.                            & technical assistance program in
procurement to help staff
distinguish differences in the use
of local and international
procurement standards.
-Design and implement a
procurement training program for
audit staff on performance and
forensic audits, and on
procurement ex post reviews.
- Design and development of
procurement control systems
complementary to SICOES and
EBMS.
- Technical assistance in the use of
procurement information systems
(SICOES and EBMS)
- Provision of computer equipment
and information systems
(software).
11   Strengthen the         Min. of Finance    - Selection and contracting of  - Ministry of Finance   01.Jan.2001   30.Dec.2002   500,000
coordinating role of the   (Office of   consultants (firms and individuals)  - UEPRI
Min. of Finance's      Standards)       for provision of technical
Office of Standards for                 assistance and training.
implementation of the                   - Additional computer equipment
Action Plan.                            and information systems supply.   I
* Costs for selection of high-level hierarchical and technical staff, as well as equipment supply for the regulatory agency's operation.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Bolivia at a glance                                                                           916/00
Latin    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    America    middle.       F                   -
Bolivia     Carib.   income         Development diamond
1999                                                                                   :       1
Population, mid-year (rnditons)                                8,1        509       2,094                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           1 000       3,840       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              8a1        1,955      2513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                                 2.3         1.          1        GtOP           ,                      Gr o
Labor force (%J                                                2.8         2.S        1t2       Gpe                                   Gross
per                                 primary
Most recent esttmate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                           capita                            enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty Iine)           67
Urban population (% of total population)                        62          7S         43
Lite expectancy at birth (years)                                62          70         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                        60          31         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                       a           a         15                  Accessto safe water
Access to improved water source (% of pOpulalton)               60          75         8S
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                            iS          12         16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school.age population)           91         113        114                 Bolivia
Male                                                         95           .,        11a                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                       87           ..        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979      19S9        1998        19S9                      - 
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                   2.7       4.7         8.5         E.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                       17.9      1l 6        23.1        18.9     |
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                  29 3       22 5        20.0        174                         Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP
Gross national savings/GDP                                     7.1        12.1        12.3                           T
Current account balance/GOP                        -14.9      -4,8        -7.9        -6.7
Interest payments/GDP                               D4.8       2i0 1.7                 2.0      Doesic s                N        tnvestment
Total debtlGOP                                     958        87 6        71.5        74.1      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                         33.4       31.8        30.1        31.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                                 57 9                                       I
Present value of oebtVexports                                            317.1           -
Indebtedness
1979-89   1989.99       1998       199    1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                      -0.9        4.2       5.S         0.6         5 4                8olivia
GNP per capita                           -21         1 B       4.1        -2.2         3 1                 Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services             0.3        5.4       6 6        -9.7         77
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979      1989        1998        1999      Growth of investment and GD  I(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                      4D
Agriculture                                            .         ..       18.9        18.4
Jndustry                                                        ..        18.7        18.1     2o
Manufacturing                                        .                  14.8        14.6         .                      r
Services                                                         .        62.4       63.5        o
Private consumption                                 74.8      77.1        75.1       76.2      2C
General government consumption                     15.1       11.9        14.1        14.6                 -      GDI       *    GDP
Imports of goods and services                      37.1       23.2        32.4       27.1
1979-89   1989-99        1998        1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                                                    20
Industry                                              ..         . D-                    ..
Manufacturing                                                4.0          2.6        3.3
Services                                                                                                                           . _
Private consumption                                  2.9       3.6         5.5         1.9     .o
General government consumption                      -3.8       3.4         3.5         2.6
Gross domestic investment                           -2.0      10.0        24.4       -16.2        2 D
Imports of goods and services                        1 8       6.6        18.5       -15.7                   Export.    -0l  ports
Gross national product                              -0.3       4.3         6.6         0.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 75 -
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998      1999      Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    ..    16 6          4.4        3.1     1
Implicit GDP deflator                            19.3      13.2        7 0        2.8
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                         t                                   ,.__
Current revenue                                            21.2       23.9       24.6             54    9s    55    57    5s        5
Current budget balance                              ..        .        1.6        2.0
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -5.7       -4.0       -4.3                  GOP deflator    e  CPI
TRADE
1979     1989        1998      1999       ExportandImportlevels(USSmIll.)
(US$ millions)                                                                             Fp-
Total exports (fob)                                 ..     723       1,105      1,051     2.000
Tin                                               ..      129         66         69          T
Zinc                                              ..      214        159        154     1,500
Manufactures                                      ..       ..        195        220
Total imports (cif)                                        862   1,983   1,755  1,                 tjjjjjj,j
Food                                              .5
Fuel and energy                                  ..S
Capital goods                                    ..
Export price index (1995=100)                                           90        84             93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Import price index (1995=100)                                           79         ,,                   mExports       *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                              114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989        1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    865       895       1,356      1,311     o .       i*_   _ iiif
Imports of goods and services                   1,129     1,026      2,201      1,989
Resource balance                                 -264     -131        -844       -678              I
Net income                                       -184     -249        -160       -205     -3
Net current transfers                             51       156         330       323
Current account balance                          -397   -225    -675   -559  -6                          11111
Financing items (net)                            356        85         803       602
Changes in net reserves                            41      140        -128        -42
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)              ..     361       1,185      1,115
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              3.OOE-5       2.7        5.5        5.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989        1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                             ComposItIon of 1999 debt (USS mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            2,556     4,132      6,090      6,170
IBRD                                           105       199          26        13                          13
IDA                                             62       325       1,045     1,098                                    1098
1291    _ _           ea 
Total debt service                                292      292         468       430
IBRD                                            10        37          16        12
IDA                                               1        3          13        17                                         244
Composition of net resource flows                                                              668
Official grants                                 51       178        232
Official creditors                             114       242         102       178
Private creditors                              109       -18         -12       -24
Foreign direct investment                       35       -24        872          .                                     1807
Portfolio equity                                  0        0           ..                         1079
World Bank program
Commitments                                     20       101        228        145      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   36        79          88        82      B- IDA     D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                             2        20          19        26      C - IMF                       G- Short-term
Net flows                                       34        59          69        56
Interest payments                                9        20          10        10
Net transfers                                   25        39          60        46
Development Economics                                                                                                           9/6/00



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 04/03/2001
Active Projecta                                                                                                                                          Difrenco
Last PSR                                                                      Expected a
Supervision Rating                      Original Arnount In USS Millions            Disburse
Project ID         Project Name                                    Development  Implementation    Fiscal Year    IBRD      IDA   GRANT  Cancel.  Undiab.       Orig.
Obiectives     Proroses
P055230            ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                                S              S             1999          0         88        0       0      83.9      26.3
P006204            BO- EDUCATION QUALITY                               S              S             1998          0         75        0       0      52.5      11.9
P006181            BO- EDUCATION REFORM                                S              S             1995          0         40        0       0      14.6       1.7
P060392            BO- HEALTH REFORM                                   HS            HS             1999          0         25        0       0      16.2       4.3
P006196            BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                            S              S            1993           0       50.7        0      20      11.8      18.4
P006186            ENV.IND.& MINING                                    U              U            1996           0         11        0       0       7.3       3.7
P040110            FIN DECEN & ACCT                                    S             HS             1998          0         15        0       0       3.8      -3.1
P065902            HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL & ENVIRM.(LIL)            S              S            2000           0        4.8        0       0       4.8       0.4
P057416           INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               #              #            2001           0          5        0       0       5.2        0
P062790           INST REF (OLD CIV S)                                 S              S             1999          0         32        0       0      28.2       1.6
P006197            LAND ADMINISTRATION                                 S              S            1995           0       20.4        0       0       0.9      -5.6
P040085            PARTICIP RURAL INV.                                 S              U             1998          0       62.8        0       0      42.1      -0.1
P006180            RD MAINT                                            S              S             1992          0         80        0       0        2      -21.3
P057030            REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                                S              S            1999           0       41.8        0       0      18.9       6.9
P057396            REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION (TA)              S              S            1998           0         20        0       0      13.5       2.2
P006206            RURAL WTR & SANIT                                   S              S            1996           0        20         0       0       2.5      -3.8
P060474            Sustainabtlity of Protected Areas                   #                           2001           0          0        0       0        0         0
Overall result                                                                                     Result         0      591.5        0      20    308.2       43.3



- 77 -
Annex 8
Bolivia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 11/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval       Company        Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98 BISA              0   0.46     0     0     0   0.46     0     0
1989/92/94/96/00   COMSUR            10     0      0     0    10      0     0     0
1999 Caja Los Andes    1.6     0     0     0   1.6       0     0     0
1991 Central Aguirre   0.13   0.35   0     0  0.13   0.35      0     0
1999 Electropaz        25      0     0     0    15       0     0     0
1993 GENEX            0.08     0  0.54     0  0.08       0  0.54     0
1999 Illimani          15      1     0      0  6.15      1     0     0
1992 IntiRaymi          0      0     5      0     0      0     5     0
1996 Mercantil-BOL    7.86     0     0      0  7.86      0     0     0
0/89              Minera              0    0.4     0     0     0    0.4     0     0
1996 Telecel Bolivia    5.19   0  4.44 10.37  5.19       0  4.44 10.37
Total Portfolio:        64.86   2.21  9.98 10.37 46.01   2.21  9.98 10.37
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2001 Banco Ganadero  5000      0      0     0
Total Pending Commitment:     5000      0     0     0






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31131
68                        66-                          64J                        62                         600                             1i0o
10 B RAZ I L                                 -->  
).7/t >  ,}                                            BOLIVIA
Nacebe
0Nacebe           ? {t70lMAIN ROADS
\Cobi a%, *         PA                        /                                                            * W  6    NATIONAL CAPITAL
oPrvenir   C                                      S                                                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                            12
120       \                    B j2 'Ianco Flo                                                                    a      SELECTED TOWNS
a \t  r/     \}(  ffi    }              t          sT.>+/X6;;)                          --_  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
2Wpto Heath   ,,?    C/, /             )/        t?        A S             >s                -.-         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
E       {t   S         <         02~ g          < y  te Po.HetkSan iqin                   'k        _
U.       i           p.                   L. Rogoguado            \                   gdalena
Moggdid,            f                     B  E N!      wS
CL -?agoguo                        Lans                                           )  , 0                                       140
14           \0n*07
IJ  APolo;       ?W/abaque                            , *> rinidad C>/                                                           B R A  Z  I L
Apolo                                                      i_ a
TOk
Cuzco   *              =, 
c.f ,izana 3MneA9f >
r;C arazon                                                   a    8SnaCr~i><npa
PutAcos'tl                                                            
j .s              Caranavi _/  Orjx   j                            Mamorh  1j          / V                    San Jos6                                   Braz6n i
Tss~a\    =r                                              )r   J{                                            Cacepasn 4
Huorino  '~~~~~~~~  *>.  ~~~~~'  Rio               ; ~~~~~~                   i~gnacio
To         *           L    aas           ,                                                               ,_                       'an  atla s
Matarani                       ;0.0      )              Pta. Vill                                                             San Ra Ael
]     >Patacama,j  COC Ptoch            \   tEI Puent                                 and uerto  aeas
Q,Chara6a--  </    Santa Cruz                                                                   ;                             6p0as
1MOrorcociaaal  '                       San Jos                             osio. Corazhn
)    C  H  I L E   :               A R G  E N T I N A                                      5;;>  * G,O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C       z  orlobl,a
aTambo                     ~~                                                                          R     U    Z         Rbr
\ Quemado                     )                                                  boP6                                                           Pet
l                           This mop wa~~~~~~~~                         ~~~~~s prdcdb  h   lpDsg   nta  h    ol as k   esfc \|t 
LPoap Poe                                   bf1              abzs                                                              iaro
Po                                             ,0                                                         .       Mut6n     T
-24nth ismadnoimply,onth e         parte    Worankoutos
4   *01>~(~               R                                u 5    1,do15                  /
~~~~~-                       PT        O                   at ga [1iacetanc afsc ondPorie...'o    SntunonguJ
5 KILOMETER5 . . . ~~~~~Reis                 nco '/~
To  .u~~'Chiguan  MuToro                                C   iri                                            60
4       o8'~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~* 66ya.                                                      /   622              e-                      to-i iV     /orIhln
Sa lERPo
Emborcaci6n         ocosnci6
CHILE                                      ARGENTINA                                                         I               *Sonio~~k,\   I uen
50Oh bou-daries uonors dnmaTon  an6nahrifrainshw                                           4CIE-                                ~c
Antofagastahis m              Piza Trdcdb  h   a  DeAg Unto           Ah  ol  ak                  at,
40                               thin mop~~~~~~~~~~~~~T dontipy o  h  otof h   oldBn   rop  n             0ia 
50   10   1  00    50   jdgmnt o th Ieglotaus f an teritoy,a  an  enosmn  r                                       o  oto
KILOMETERS                                                                                                  Ro,sreoc,n 68'  66'  64'  620  RGENTIN~~~~~~~2-  R.  P.t.  A./o-slg



