Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
July 24, 2002 
 
His Excellency 
Jacques Trigo 
Minister of Finance 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
Casilla Postal 9917 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Re:  
Credit No. 3507-BO (Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for 
Decentralization) - Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency: 
 
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated May 22, 2001, between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association 
(the Association). In this letter, all the terms defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement have the same meaning as therein set forth. 
 
Pursuant to our recent discussions on the subject, the Association hereby agrees to 
amend the Development Credit Agreement so as to restructure the Second Tranche and 
establish a Third Tranche. 
 
Therefore, the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
Whereas (E) in the Preamble is modified to read as follows 
“
(E) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has 
decided to provide such assistance to the Borrower in support of the Program by 
making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;”. 
 
Section 1.02 (ee) is modified to read as follows: 
“
(ee) 
‘Second Tranche’ means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR__,__0,000 to be disbursed by the Association upon compliance by the 
Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;”. 
 
A new Section 1.02 (gg) is added to read as follows: 
“
(gg) 
‘Third Tranche’ means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR__,__0,000 to be disbursed by the Association upon compliance by the 
Page  2
H. E. Jacques Trigo 
-2- 
July 24, 2002 
 
Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (e) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement.”. 
 
Section 2.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and 
(e) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.”. 
 
A new Section 2.02 (e) is added to read as follows: 
“
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account for the 
Third Tranche unless: 
 
(i) 
the proceeds of the Second Tranche have been withdrawn 
from the Credit Account; and
 
(ii) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based 
on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (A) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy 
framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on 
the basis of indicators satisfactory the Association; and (C) 
that the action described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
has been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved, the macroeconomic framework or the 
action taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) 
days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress, restored the macroeconomic framework 
or taken action, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or 
any part thereof.”. 
 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
Page  3
H. E. Jacques Trigo 
-3- 
July 24, 2002 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to this 
Agreement.”. 
 
Paragraph C.2 of Schedule 3 is deleted. 
 
A new Schedule 4 is added to read as follows. 
“SCHEDULE 4 
Action Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement 
 
The Borrower shall have enacted a procurement law consistent with the 
Procurement Action Plan.”. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned. This amendment 
letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. 
 
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective, as of the date of this letter, 
once the Association has received one executed original of this amendment letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/Isabel Guerrero 
Country Director 
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
 
By /s/Jacques Trigo Loubiere 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
H. E. Jacques Trigo 
-4- 
July 24, 2002 
 
WB76939 
M:\BOLIVIA\Amendments\PSAC for Decentralization.doc 
October 15, 2002 10:51 AM
 
