Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3507-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3507-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
November 23, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve the decentralization of the Borrower’s public sector (the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Governments of Denmark, the 
Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the 
Bilateral Donors) grants in an amount equivalent to approximately $21,000,000 (the 
Bilateral Donors Grants) to assist in financing part of the Program on the terms and 
conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Bilateral Donors (the Bilateral Donors Grant Agreements);
(D)
the Bilateral Donors and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement (the Bilateral Donors Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the 
Association to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to 
be provided severally by the Bilateral Donors and regulating certain other matters of 
Page  2
common interest in connection with such financing; and
(E)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
to provide such assistance to the Borrower in support of the Program by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; 
(b)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  3
meanings:
(a)
"Administrative Decentralization Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1654 
of July 28, 1995 that provides the legal framework for the administrative 
decentralization of the Borrower’s Executive Branch at the departmental level through 
the delegation of technical-administrative powers to the Prefectures (as hereinafter 
defined);
(b)
"Budget Administration Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 2042 of December 
21, 1999 that provides the general rules for the budget administration process of the 
Borrower’s public sector;
(c)
"CONAPE" means Consejo Nacional de Política Económica, the Borrower’s 
national council of economic policy;
(d)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Economic Reactivation Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 2064 of April 3, 
2000 that provides support to the investment programs and projects of Municipalities 
engaged in the promotion of human development on the basis of improved economic 
performance, to be achieved through, inter alia, the Financial Restructuring Plan (as 
hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Eligible Municipality" means any Municipality that meets the eligibility 
requirements of the Financial Restructuring Plan (both as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"FDC" means Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino, the Borrower’s rural 
development fund established pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 22154 of March 15, 1988 as 
the agency responsible for the social and economic development of rural communities in 
the Borrower’s territory, currently under liquidation pursuant to Article 13 of 
Supreme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000;
(h)
"Financial Restructuring Agreement" means any of the agreements to be 
entered into between a Municipality and MH for the purposes of carrying out the 
Financial Restructuring Plan (all as hereinafter defined);
(i)
"Financial Restructuring Plan" means the financial restructuring plan for 
the Borrower’s public sector adopted pursuant to Decree No. 25737 of April 14, 2000;
(j)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR23,350,000 to be disbursed by the Association on or after the Effective Date;
(k)
"FIS" means Fondo de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s social investment 
fund established pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 22407 of January 11, 1990 as the 
agency responsible for the financing of programs and projects in the areas of health 
and education in the Borrower’s territory, currently under restructuring pursuant to 
Article 12 of Supreme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000;
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on January 
1st and ends on December 31st of each calendar year;
(m)
"FNDR" means Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional, the Borrower’s 
national fund for regional development established pursuant to Law No. 926 of March 
25, 1987 as the agency responsible for investment credit financing to Municipalities 
and Prefectures (both as hereinafter defined) in the Borrower’s territory;
(n)
"FNDR Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted by FNDR in 
connection with the Program, including provisions on monitoring, supervision and 
auditing of FNDR procedures, effective distribution of FNDR’s resources and 
eligibility criteria for municipal credit operations;
(o)
"Formula-Driven Matching Grant Mechanism" means the Borrower’s mechanism 
set forth in CONAPE’s Resolution No. 6 of November 10, 2000 to determine grant 
cofinancing of municipal investment programs and projects as part of the National 
Compensation Policy (as hereinafter defined);
(p)
"FPS" means Fondo Nacional de Inversión Productiva y Social, the 
Borrower’s national productive and social investment fund established by the Borrower 
to assume the functions of FDC and FIS pursuant to Article 14 of Supreme Decree No. 
25984 of November 16, 2000 as the agency responsible for implementing the National 
Page  4
Compensation Policy (as hereinafter defined);
(q)
"FPS Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted by FPS in 
connection with the Program, including provisions on monitoring, supervision and 
auditing of FPS procedures, effective distribution of FPS’ resources and eligibility 
criteria for municipal grant operations;
(r)
"Mancomunidad" means any municipal association established by a group of 
Municipalities (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Articles 155 through 158 of the 
Municipalities Law (as hereinafter defined);
(s)
"MH" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(t)
"Municipalities Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 2028 of October 28, 
1999 that provides the basic rules of the Borrower’s municipal governance;
(u)
"Municipality" means any of the municipal governments in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(v)
"National Compensation Policy" means the Borrower’s policy set forth in 
Articles 1 through 10 of Supreme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000 that defines 
the Borrower’s approach to financing priority programs and projects at the local level 
through, inter alia, the Formula-Driven Matching Grant Mechanism; 
(w)
"National Dialogue Bill" means the Borrower’s draft legislation to 
implement the agreements and understandings reached during the national dialogue 
process conducted by the Borrower during year 2000;
(x)
"PAI Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into between a 
Municipality, FNDR and FPS for the purposes of applying the PAI Methodology (as 
hereinafter defined);
(y)
"PAI Methodology" means the Borrower’s methodology to develop and 
implement institutional reform plans to improve budgetary, financial management, and 
administrative capacity at the municipal level set forth in the FNDR Operational 
Manual and in the FPS Operational Manual;
(z)
"Pilot Agencies" means the following Agencies of the Borrower: (i) Vice 
Presidency of the Republic; (ii) MH; (iii) Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports; 
(iv) Ministry of Health and Social Security; and FIS;
(aa)
"Popular Participation Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1551 of April 
20, 1994 that provides the legal framework for the scope and agents of the popular 
participation process, the jurisdiction of the Municipalities and the transfer to 
Municipalities of the physical infrastructure for the provision of certain public 
services;
(bb)
"Prefecture" means any of the departmental administrations in the 
Borrower’s territory;
(cc)
"Procurement Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dated November 28, 
2000 to modernize the Borrower’s procurement rules and procedures;
(dd)
"SAFCO Law" means the Borrower’s financial administration and control law 
(Law No. 1178 of July 20, 1990) that provides the general rules for the financial 
administration and control of the Borrower’s public sector;
(ee)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR23,350,000 to be disbursed by the Association upon compliance by the Borrower with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; and
(ff)
"SIGMA" means Sistema Integrado de Gestión y Modernización 
Administrativa, the Borrower’s integrated system for management and administrative 
modernization to be implemented pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 25875 of August 18, 
2000.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  5
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-six million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR46,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central 
Bank of Bolivia, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account for the Second 
Tranche unless:
(i)
the proceeds of the First Tranche have been withdrawn from the 
Credit Account; and
(ii)
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (A) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory the Association; 
and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.  If, after said exchange of views, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved, the macroeconomic framework or the actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress, restored the macroeconomic 
framework or taken actions, then the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any 
part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  6
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 and ending January 15, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
Page  7
including any action specified in Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the Budget Administration Law or the Administrative Decentralization Law 
or the Municipalities Law or the Economic Reactivation Law or the Popular 
Participation Law or the SAFCO Law, or any of the regulations issued under the 
authority of any of them, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely 
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or 
to carry out the Program;
(c)
any of the Bilateral Donors Grant Agreements shall have failed to become 
effective by September 1, 2001 or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from sources other than the Bilateral Donors 
Grant in question on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement; and/or
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant (including any of the Bilateral Donors Grants) or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Program shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and/or (B) adequate funds for the Program 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Page  8
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 5.02. The date August 22, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ José Luis Lupo Flores
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pablo Alonso
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  9
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, un-manufactured
tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, 
un-worked or worked
718 
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
Page  10
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a Participating 
Country for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
A.
Inter-Governmental Relations
1.
The Borrower has adopted the National Compensation Policy, including the 
Formula-Driven Matching Grant Mechanism.
2.
The Borrower has:
(a)
established FPS; and
(b)
approved and published the FPS Operational Manual.
3.
Five (5) PAI Agreements have been entered into.
4.
The Borrower has approved and published the FNDR Operational Manual, including:
(a)
a policy to exclude the financing of Prefecture investment programs and 
projects in investment sectors reserved to Municipalities pursuant to the 
Municipalities Law; and
(b)
a mechanism to assess the risk of municipal credit operations.
5.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association action plans:
(a) 
to revise the roles and responsibilities across the national, 
departmental and municipal levels of the Borrower’s administration;
(b)
to revise the system of the Borrower’s inter-governmental fiscal 
transfers consistent with the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
for the dissemination of information regarding the National Compensation 
Policy, and programs and projects managed by FNDR and FPS.
B.
Municipal Financial Restructuring
1.
The Borrower has entered into Financial Restructuring Agreements with the 
Municipalities of Cochabamba, La Paz, Santa Cruz and Tarija.
2.
The Borrower has issued MH’s Ministerial Resolution No. 167 of March 27, 2001 
that amends eligibility requirements of the Financial Restructuring Plan so as to 
limit access to such Plan to Municipalities over-indebted as of December 31, 2000.
C.
Financial Management and Procurement
1.
The Borrower has implemented SIGMA in the Pilot Agencies.
2.
The Borrower has issued Supreme Decree No. 26144 of April 6, 2001 providing the 
basic procurement rules for all the Borrower’s agencies.
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association the Procurement Action Plan.
Page  11
D.
Community Participation Legal Reforms
1.
The Borrower has submitted the National Dialogue Bill to the Borrower’s 
Congress.
2.
The Borrower has issued regulations to the Municipalities Law with regard to 
Mancomunidades.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
A.
Inter-Governmental Relations
1.
The Borrower shall have established transparent reporting mechanisms for 
transfers to Municipalities.
2.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association an action plan to 
rationalize the Borrower’s investment activities, including donor-financed activities.
3.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association draft legislation:
(a)
to revise the roles and responsibilities across the national, 
departmental and municipal levels of the Borrower’s administration consistent with the 
action plan referred to in paragraph A.5 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)
to revise the system of the Borrower’s inter-governmental fiscal 
transfers consistent with the action plan referred to in paragraph A.5 (b) of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association evidence of progress in the 
application of the PAI Methodology as a condition for access to FNDR and FPS financing 
of Municipalities’ investment projects or programs.
5.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association evidence of progress in the 
implementation of the National Compensation Policy, including the Formula-Driven 
Matching Grant Formula.
B.
Municipal Financial Restructuring
1.
The Borrower shall have entered into Financial Restructuring Agreements with all 
the Eligible Municipalities that have submitted an application pursuant to the 
Financial Restructuring Plan.
2.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association evidence of progress in the 
implementation of the Financial Restructuring Plan.
C.
Financial Management and Procurement
1.
The Borrower shall have been:
(a)
implementing SIGMA in all the Borrower’s Ministries, FNDR and FPS; and
(b)
making publicly available its expenditure data.
2.
The Borrower shall have issued revised procurement rules consistent with the 
Procurement Action Plan.
3.
The Borrower shall have contracted independent auditors to verify the 
application of FNDR and FPS financing policies.
Page  12
D.
Community Participation Legal Reforms
1.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association draft legislation for 
improving participatory planning procedures and social control mechanisms at the 
municipal level.
2.
The National Dialogue Bill shall have been enacted.
