Page  1
November 19, 2001
Mr. Bo Westman
Head of the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency in Bolivia
Embassy of Sweden
Av. 6 de Agosto No. 2577
Edificio Las Dos Torres, Piso 8
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sir,
Arrangement between the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the 
International Development Association concerning the cofinancing of the 
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization to the 
Republic of Bolivia (TF No. 028328)
We are pleased to acknowledge on behalf of the International Development 
Association ("IDA") the intention of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, acting 
through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency ("SIDA") in Bolivia 
(the "Donor") to make available to IDA an amount of United States dollars equivalent 
to thirty million Swedish Kronors (SEKs30,000,000) (the "Contribution") as a grant for 
the purpose of cofinancing the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for 
Decentralization (the "Program") to the Republic of Bolivia (the "Recipient"). Other 
donors are also expected to contribute to this trust fund.
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Letter of Arrangement, the 
availability of the Contribution will be subject to the Donor’s budgetary cycle.
The Contribution will be used for the purposes described in the Attachment to 
this Letter which forms an integral part of this Arrangement. 
The administration and use of the Contribution will be subject to the provisions 
of this Letter of Arrangement and to the "Standard Provisions Applicable to Donors to 
the Trust Fund for the cofinancing of the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit 
for Decentralization to the Republic of Bolivia" (the "Standard Provisions") attached 
hereto as an Annex.  The Standard Provisions constitute an integral part of this 
Letter of Arrangement.  
The Donor authorizes IDA to disburse the Contribution funds in accordance with 
the grant agreement to be entered into between IDA and the Recipient (the Grant 
Agreement) in a manner consistent with the credit agreement entered into between IDA 
and the Recipient (the Credit Agreement) for the same purposes on May 22, 2001.  IDA 
will furnish a copy of the Grant Agreement and the Credit Agreement to the Donor.
The Donor will deposit the Contribution into the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development Cash Account "T" No. 000125199, ABA 021001088, Swift 
Address MRMDUS33, maintained with the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
(HSBC) Bank USA, 140 Broadway Street, New York, NY 10005, as follows:
(a)
promptly following IDA’s confirmation of the effectiveness of the Grant 
Agreement, an amount equivalent to fifteen million Swedish Kronors (SEKs15,000,000); 
and
(b)
promptly following IDA’s confirmation of the compliance by the Recipient 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of the 
Credit Agreement, an amount equivalent to fifteen million Swedish Kronors 
(SEKs15,000,000). 
When making such deposit, the Donor will instruct the HSBC Bank USA, to advise 
IDA’s Treasury Operations Department by SWIFT (IBRDUS33), telex (MCI 248423) or fax 
(202-522-1564) as to the amount received, that it is from SIDA for the Program (TF No. 
028328), and the date of the deposit.  In addition, the Donor will send by fax a copy 
of the Donor’s deposit instruction to IDA’s Trust Fund’s Section (fax:  202-477-7163).
The Trust Fund covered by this Letter of Arrangement will terminate: (i) on 
January 15, 2002, or on such date as the Contribution will have been fully utilized, 
whichever comes earlier, unless the Donor and IDA otherwise agree in writing; and (ii) 
by decision of either party upon giving not less than three (3) months’ prior written 
Page  2
notice to that effect to the other party, in which case the rights and obligations of 
IDA under the Grant Agreement will be transferred to the Donor.
The offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to the 
implementation of this Arrangement are:
For IDA
Resident Mission
World Bank Office
Edificio BISA, Piso 9
Av. 16 de Julio 1628
La Paz, Bolivia
Phone: 5912-316504
Fax: 5912-391038
For the Donor
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
Av. 6 de Agosto No. 2577
Edificio Las Dos Torres, Piso 8
Casilla 12452
La Paz Bolivia
Phone: 5912-434943
Fax: 5912-434926
We propose that this Letter will, upon your confirmation in the manner indicated 
below, constitute a legally binding Arrangement between the Donor and IDA.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
Kingdom of Sweden, acting through the Swedish International Development Cooperation 
Agency in Bolivia
By /s/ Bo Westman
Date November 20, 2001
Head of the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency in Bolivia
ATTACHMENT
1.
IDA has received from the Recipient a letter dated November 23, 2000, describing 
a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the decentralization 
of the Recipient’s public sector, declaring the Recipient's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from IDA in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; 
2.
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement to the satisfaction of IDA and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to IDA;
3.
the Recipient intends to contract from the Donor, the Governments of the Kingdom 
of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (all 
collectively referred to as the Donors) grants in an amount equivalent to 
approximately twenty million United States Dollars (US$20,000,000) (the Grant) to 
assist in financing part of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and IDA on behalf of the Donors 
(the Grant Agreement);
Page  3
4.
the Donors and IDA have made Arrangements for IDA to process applications for 
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by the Donors and 
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with such financing; 
and
5.
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, IDA has decided to provide such 
assistance to the Recipient in support of the Program by making a credit in an amount 
equivalent to forty-six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDRs46,700,000) in two tranches.
ANNEX
Standard Provisions Applicable to the Donors to the Trust Fund for the cofinancing of 
the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization to the Republic of 
Bolivia
The following provisions (hereinafter referred to as the "Standard Provisions") 
will be applicable to all Arrangements entered into between the International 
Development Association ("IDA") and donor countries (hereinafter individually and 
indistinctly referred to as the "Donor") that provide grants (individually and 
indistinctly referred to as the "Contribution") to IDA for the Trust Fund for the 
cofinancing of the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization (the 
"Program") to the Republic of Bolivia (the "Recipient") (the "Trust Fund").
I.
IDA’s Use of Grant Funds and Administrative Cost Recovery Arrangements
(a)
Implementation of the Program will be the responsibility solely of the 
Recipient.
(b)
All Contributions made available as grants to the Trust Fund 
(collectively the "Grant Funds") will be accounted for as a single Trust Fund and will 
be kept separate and apart from the funds of IDA.  The Grant Funds may be commingled 
with other trust fund assets maintained in the Dollar T-Account.  The Grant Funds in 
the Dollar T-Account may be freely exchanged by IDA into other currencies as may 
facilitate their disbursement.
The IDA may invest the Grant Funds pending their disbursement in any instrument 
in which the IDA is authorized to invest its own funds.  IDA will credit all income 
earned to the Trust Fund to be used for the same purposes of the Contributions.
(c)
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and 
other expenses for the administration of the Grant Funds incurred by IDA, IDA  may 
deduct from the Trust Fund and retain for its own account an amount equal to two 
percent (2%) of the amounts deposited by the Donors with IDA.
II.
Fiduciary Responsibilities of IDA
IDA will exercise the same care in the discharge of the functions described in 
the Letter of Arrangement as it exercises with respect to the administration and 
management of its own affairs and will have no further responsibility or liability to 
the Donor in respect thereof.
III.
Financing of Expenditures
The financing of expenditures will be done in accordance with IDA procedures 
applicable to the Program under the grant agreement entered into between the Recipient 
and IDA for the Program (the Grant Agreement).
IV.
Procedures to Govern IDA Grants
IDA will pass on the Grant Funds to the Recipient, pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement and the following provisions:
(a)
Within the limits provided for in the Letter of Arrangement, IDA will act 
as administrator of the Grant Funds, and as such will conclude the Grant Agreement 
with the Recipient in connection with the provision of the Contributions.
(b)
IDA will be responsible for the administration of the Grant Funds and of 
the Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) immediately above; and may enter into such 
Agreement and do any and all such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate 
to accomplish fully the foregoing.
Page  4
V.
Reporting Responsibilities of IDA
(a)
External Audit:  IDA will provide the donors, within (6) six months 
following the end of each IDA fiscal year, a management assertion together with an 
attestation from IDA’s external auditors on the satisfactory performance of the 
procedures and controls used by IDA in administering trust funds.  The cost of such 
attestation will be borne by IDA.
IDA will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the 
aggregate Grant Funds for the agreed disbursements made therefrom.  Within ninety (90) 
days of the completion of the Program financed by the Grant Funds, IDA will prepare an 
unaudited financial statement in United States Dollars with respect to the Grant Funds 
and forward a copy to each Donor.
(b)
IDA will maintain close consultation and coordination with the Donors.  
IDA will provide each Donor with a report on the Program financed by the Grant Funds 
after the disbursement of each Tranche.  Within six (6) months of the completion of 
the Program, or of full disbursement of the Grant Funds, whichever comes later, IDA 
will provide a final progress report to each Donor.
VI.
Termination
Upon termination as provided for in the Letter of Arrangement, unless the 
parties hereto agree on another course of action:  (a) any agreement entered into 
between IDA and/or other third parties will not be affected by the termination, and 
IDA will be entitled to continue permitting withdrawals of Grant Funds in respect of 
such agreements as if this Arrangement had not been so terminated; and (b) any 
remaining Grant Funds will be returned to the Donors on a pro rata basis and IDA’s 
functions pursuant hereto will be considered terminated.  Within six (6) months 
following such termination, IDA will furnish to the Donors an unaudited financial 
statement with respect to the aggregate amount contributed by all Donors.
