Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER
028328
Grant Agreement
in respect of the
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization
(Credit No. 3507-BO)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of
NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION, KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND UNITED KINGDOM
OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
Dated November
20, 2001
TRUST FUND NUMBER
028328
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November
20,
2001, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Recipient)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association), acting as 
Administrator of grant funds provided by NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION, KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN
IRELAND
(the Donors).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Programmatic Structural 
Adjustment Credit for Decentralization) dated May 22, 2001, between the Recipient and 
the Association
(the Credit Agreement) the Association has extended to the Recipient a 
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-six million seven
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR46,700,000) (the Credit) to assist in the 
financing of the program referred to in Whereas
(A)
to the Credit Agreement
(the
Program);
(B)
the Recipient has requested further assistance from the Donors in the 
financing of the Program and in consideration of this request, and subject to their
budgetary cycles, the Donors intend to make available to the Recipient an aggregate
amount equivalent to approximately twenty million Dollars
(US$20,000,000) (the Grant), 
and have, pursuant to agreements dated November
19-20,
2001
between the Donors and the
Association
(the Contribution Agreements) appointed the Association as Administrator 
of said Grant for the purpose of providing such assistance to the Recipient; and
(C)
the Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the
Program before the disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made, pursuant to
the provisions of the Credit Agreement, as applicable;
Page  2
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to
the Recipient under this Agreement shall be considered, on pro rata basis, as part of
the bilateral development aid extended by each Donor to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided
to provide such assistance to the Recipient in support of the Program by making the
Grant in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January
1,
1985
(as amended 
through October
6,
1999) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
(13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section
6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant
pursuant to the Contribution Agreements, except that in Section
6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the International 
Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section
6.02 (a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the Credit 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the
amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
Section 2.01, paragraph 13, is modified to read:
"
‘Project’
means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.";
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
Page  3
"Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency
of the deposit account specified in Section
2.02
of the Grant
Agreement.";
(viii)Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Grant from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the
Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(ix)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(x)
A new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, to read as follows: 
"(p) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the Donors Grant would exceed the resources
available for disbursement from the Donors."
(xi)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and
the Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
referred to in the Preamble to the Grant Agreement, the performance by
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Grant.".
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Credit Agreement and in Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Grant First Tranche" means the portion of the Grant not exceeding 
approximately $10,000,000 to be disbursed by the Association on or after the Effective 
Date; and
(b)
"Grant Second Tranche" means the portion of the Grant not exceeding 
approximately $10,000,000 to be disbursed by the Association upon compliance by the 
Recipient with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph
(d) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount equivalent to
approximately twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Grant, with each withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date
of such withdrawal, all in accordance with the provisions of the Contribution
Agreements.
Section
2.02 (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from
the Grant Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the 
first request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in the
Central Bank of Bolivia, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association
(the Contribution Deposit Account). All withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Contribution
Page  4
Deposit Account
.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule
1
to the
Credit Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
proceeds of the Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so
excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit 
into the Contribution Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment;
or
(ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Grant
Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account for the Grant Second 
Tranche unless:
(i)
the proceeds of the Grant First Tranche have been withdrawn from 
the Grant Account; and
(ii)
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section
3.01 of the Credit Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (A) with the progress 
achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of the Program;
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory
the Association; and
(C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 
to the 
Credit Agreement have been taken in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
If, after said exchange of
views, the Association shall have given notice to the Recipient
that the progress achieved, the macroeconomic framework or the
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90
days after such
notice, the Recipient shall not have achieved progress, restored
the macroeconomic framework or taken actions, then the Association
may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the
Grant or any part thereof.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section
3.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the provisions of 
Sections
2.02 (c) and (d), Articles III and IV of the Credit Agreement, and Schedules 
1, 2 and 3 to the Credit Agreement, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood
that all references therein to the
"Association" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Association under this Agreement, all references to the
"Credit" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Grant, and all references to the
"Borrower" shall be deemed to 
be references to the Recipient.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section
4.01. This Grant Agreement shall become effective upon its execution.
Section
4.02. This Grant Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Association shall terminate on the date on which the Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section
4.03. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section
4.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso
19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Section
4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section
5.01. In accordance with the Contribution Agreements, the rights and 
obligations of the Association under this Agreement may be transferred, in whole or in
part, to the Donors. The Recipient agrees that, upon notice by the Association to the 
Recipient to that effect, the Donors shall,
ipso facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all or part of the rights and obligations of the
Association under this Agreement as if the Donors had been an original party to this
Agreement, without any further action required on the part of any party, and from such
date the Association shall cease to have such rights or obligations as a party under
this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
/s/ Jacques Trigo Loubiere
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of Netherlands Minister For Development
Cooperation, Kingdom Of Sweden and United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
By
/s/ Isabel Guerrero
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  6
